                                        Documentof
                                   The World Bank

                            FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                     Report No: 32502-ZM




                         PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                          ONA

                                  PROPOSEDCREDIT

                      INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR20.7 MILLION
                          (US$30.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                               REPUBLICOFZAMBIA

                                          FORA

       PUBLIC SERVICE MANAGEMENTPROGRAM                   - SUPPORT   PROJECT
                   INSUPPORT OFTHE SECONDPHASEOFTHE
                      PUBLICSERVICE REFORMPROGRAM

                                     December 7,2005




Public Sector Reformand Capacity BuildingUnit
Country Department3
Africa Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

        (Exchange Rate Effective November 22,2005)
                    Currency Unit= ZMK
                    ZMK 1=US$.000248
                     US$1= ZMK4025

                       FISCAL YEAR
                   January 1-December 30

          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL        Adaptable ProgramLending
ABB        Activity Based Budgeting
AG         Accountant General
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
ccs        Commitment Control System
           Country Financial Accountability Assessments
co
CFAA
           Cabinet Office
CPAR       Country Procurement Assessment Review
DFID       Department for International Development
DO         DevelopmentObjective
EC         European Commission
EU         EuropeanUnion
FMA        Financial Management and Accounting
FMS        Financial Management Systems
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GRZ        Government o f the Republic o f Zambia
HIPC       Heavily IndebtedPoor Country
IDA        International Development Association
IFAC       International Federation o f Accountants
IFMIS      Integrated FinancialManagement Information System
IMF        International Monetary Fund
INTOSAI    International Organization o f Supreme Audit Institutions
I P        ImplementationProgress
LAN        Local Area Network
LGA        Local Government Authority
MDD        Management Development Division
MDG        Millennium Development Goals
M D S A    Ministries, Departments and Spending Agencies
MER        Monthly Expenditure Returns
MOFNP      MinistryofFinance andNationalPlanning
MOLA       Ministryo fLegalAffairs
MOU        Memorandum o f Understanding
M O W S    MinistryofWorks and Supply
MPSA       Ministries, Provinces and Spending Agencies
MTFF       Medium Term Financial Framework
MCGs       MTEFConsultative Groups
NATECH     National Accounting Technician
NCBPCG     National Capacity BuildingProgram for Good Governance
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization

NORAD      Norwegian Agency for International Development
OAG        Office o f the Auditor General
P A C      Public Accounts Committee
PES        Personal Emoluments
PEM        Public Expenditure Management
PFM        Public Finance Management
PEMFA      Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PEMFA-SC   PEMFA Steering Committee
PEMFAR     Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability Review
PMEC       Payroll Management and Establishment Control
PMP        PerformanceManagement Package
PIF        Performance Improvement Fund
PIP        Program Implementation Plan
PMEC       Payroll Management and Establishment Control
PRBS       Poverty Reduction Budgetary Support
PS         Permanent Secretary
PSC        Public Service Commission
PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PRSP - SC  Public Service Management Steering Committee
PSCAP      Public Service Capacity Building Program
PSMD       Public Service Management Unit
PSMP-SP    Public Service Management Program    - SupportProject
PSRP-sc    Public Service ReformProgram Steering Committee
PSRP       Public Service Reform Program
PSU        Procurement and Supplies Unit
SAC        Structural Adjustment Credit
SBD
sc         Standard BiddingDocument
           Secretary to the Cabinet
SDIF        Service Delivery Improvement Facility
SIDA        Swedish International Development Agency
SOE         Statement of Expenditure
ST          Secretary to the Treasury
SWAP        Sector Wide Approach
TNDP       Transitional National Development Plan
TWG         Technical Working Group
U N D P    United Nations Development Program
U S A I D   United States Agency for International Development
U S D      United States Dollar
WAN         Wide Area Network
ZICA        Zambia Institute o f Chartered Accountants
ZNTB        Zambia National Tender Board
ZRA         Zambia Revenue Authority




             Vice President    : Gobind Nankani
           Country Director    : Hartwig Schafer
            Sector Manager     : Helga Muller
          Task Team Leader     : Patricia Palale


                                                                       111




                                                                         ZAMBIA
                                   Public Service ManagementProgram. Project                          Support

                                                                       CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                     Page

STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                            .........................................................................   3
 Country and sector issues............................................................................................................                 3
 Rationale for IDA involvement ..................................................................................................                      3
 Higher level objectives to which the project contributes ............................................................                                 4

PROJECT DESCRIPTION                       .........................................................................................................    5
 LendingInstrument.....................................................................................................................                5
 Project Phases .............................................................................................................................          5
 Project components .....................................................................................................................              7
 Lessons Learned and Reflectedinthe Project Design..............................................................                                       13
 Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection.................................................................                                    15

IMPLEMENTATION                  ................................................................................................................       15
 Partnership Arrangements., .......................................................................................................                    15
 Institutional and Implementation Arrangements ......................................................................                                  15
 Monitoringand Evaluation o f OutcomesResults.....................................................................                                     17
 Sustainability............................................................................................................................. 17
       . . .
 Critical Risks and Possible Controversial Aspects ...................................................................                                 18
 Loadcredit conditions and covenants.......................................................................................                            20

APPRAISAL SUMMARY                       .........................................................................................................      21
 Economic and financial analyses                    ..............................................................................................     21
 Technical...................................................................................................................................          21
 Fiduciary ...................................................................................................................................         22
 Social.........................................................................................................................................       24
 Environment..............................................................................................................................             24
 Safeguard policies.....................................................................................................................               24
 Policy Exceptions and Readiness..............................................................................................                         24

Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground                                            .........................................................  25

                                                           iv


Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by IDA andlor other Agencies                                              ......................... 30

Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                     ........................................................................       32

Annex 4: DetailedProject Description           ......................................................................................        48

Annex 5: Project Costs ..............................................................................................................        84

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                  ................................................................................       85

Annex 7: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements                                           .....................................    89

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements              ......................................................................................         99

Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis                 ...........................................................................         108

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues        ..........................................................................................          109

Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision                     ...................................................................        110

Annex 12: Documents in the Project File              ...............................................................................         112

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                ............................................................................         113

Annex 14: Country at a Glance       ...............................................................................................          115

Annex 15: Triggers for Phase Ito Phase I1               ............................................................................         117

Annex 16: Letter of Development Sector Policy                    ....................................................................        121


MAP: IBRDNO 33514
                .

                                              Local          I        Foreign                    Total
Borrower                                       5.51
IDA                                           11.10                     18.90                    30.00
Other Donors:                                                                                              I
 UK                                            7.81                     13.31                    21.12
 Denmark                                       2.09                     3.56                      5.65 iII
 NetherlandsiIreland                           1.79                     3.05                      4.84
 Finland                                       0.72                     1.22                      1.94
 Sweden                                        1.39                     2.37                      3.76     I


 Norway                                        2.79                     4.74                      7.53     I
 EC                                            7.34                     12.50                     19.84
                                      I       37.06           I         63.13                   100.19     I

Borrower: GOVERNMENTOFTHEREPUBLICOFZAMBIA
Responsible agency: Ministry of FinanceandNationalPlanning
Address: P.O. Box 50062, Ridgeway, Lusaka,Zambia
Contact Persons:
       Dr.SitumbekoMusokotwane, Secretaryto the Treasury
       Ministryof Finance andNationalPlanning
       P.O. Box 50062, ChimangaRoad,Lusaka,ZAMBIA
       Tel. (01) 251991                 Fax:(01) 251078         Email: mtefobserver@zamtel.zm

       Mr.EvansChibiliti, DeputySecretaryto Cabinet
       Cabinet Office
       Tel.(Ol) 251388                 Fax:(01) 253497         Email: evans.chibiliti@cabinet.gov.zm

                                                         2



                       I                                                                             I
                           FY06               FY07                 FY08                FY09                 FYlO
Annual                       6.00               10.00                5.00                4.00                 5-00
Cumulative                   6.00               16.00               21.00               25.00                30.00

         Project implementation period: January 2006 -June 2010
         Expectedeffectiveness date: January 1,2006
         Expectedclosing date: December 31,2010

Doesthe project depart from the CAS in content or other significant respects?                [-I YES         [XI     NO
Doesthe project require any exceptions from Bank policies?                                   [-I YES         [XI     NO
Have these beenapproved by Bank management?                                                  [ - 1  Y E S    [X:     NO
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                                 [ - 1  Y E S    [X:     NO
Doesthe project includeany criticalrisks rated "substantial" or "high"?                      [XI YES         [-I NO
Doesthe project meet the Regional criteria for readinessfor implementation?                  [XI YES         [ - 1   NO


The project development objective is to make public service delivery institutions and processes more effective and
efficient by enhancing the efficiency and accountability o f the management o f public expenditures and the public
service inline with the GRZ strategies to support poverty reduction and promote economic growth.

Project description:

The project will help in: (i) improving the process o f determining budget allocations so they can further support poverty
reduction; (ii)continuing to reinforce the role o f the budget as an instrument to reflect government priorities and to
discipline the use o f public funds; (iii)
                                         further increasing transparency and accountability inthe budget and procurement
systems to hold the government accountable for better performance; (iv) improving the pay and incentive system; and,
(v) realigning ministry structures and management incentives to work in tune with increased performance and public
service delivery.

Whichsafeguard policies are triggered, if any?
None.
Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
None.
Boardpresentation:
None.
Credit effectiveness:
(a) The Recipient has adopted and submitted the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) in a form and substance
      satisfactory to the Association.
(b) The Recipienthas demonstrated the ability to produce financial reports, in form and substance satisfactory to the
      Association.
(c) The Recipient has adopted and submitted a service delivery improvement facility operations manual, ina form and
      substance satisfactory to the Association.     I
(d) The Recipient appointed to the PEMFAProject Coordination Unit,and the PSMCoordinationUnit,respectively, a
      procurement specialist and a financial management specialist.
Covenants applicable to project implementation:
None.

STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE

Countryand sector issues

1.      Zambia's economic development has been dominated by the secular decline in the
purchasingpower o f its copper resources. The decline in copper prices is now being reversed and
this has the danger o f reverting to a dependency on copper revenues to the detriment o f economic
diversification and the broader spread o f the nation's international trade risks. This situation i s
aggravated by frequent droughts, the government's inability to manage the resulting food shortages
effectively, failure to sufficiently diversify the economy and the impact o f the HIViAIDS
pandemic. Zambia has been among the most heavily indebted countries in Africa and was granted
debt relief under the enhanced Heavily IndebtedPoor Countries framework at the end o f 2000 with
a floating completion point which was reached in early April 2005. Zambia has been included
among the 18 African countries that are being considered for 100 percent multilateral debt relief
through the G8 initiative, thus potentially eliminating most o f its foreign debt during 2006. Since
1999, the economy has experienced a consistently modest recovery and has recorded an average
5% growth rate per annum. However, poverty reduction remains a challenge due to a continuing
but reducing debt burden, weak institutional capacity and ineffective spending priorities and
controls.

2.       Despite this, public service reforms have slowly but steadily been implemented over recent
years. The GRZ has made significant progress inpublic service downsizing, initial pay reforms for
the senior public service, some aspects o f public sector restructuring such as the privatization and
commercialization o f many parastatals, and in undertaking initial reforms in public financial
management such as the introduction o f a payroll management and establishment control system, a
financial management system and introduction o f a Medium Term Expenditure Framework
(MTEF). However, the GRZ continues to struggle with management of, and accountability for,
public resources despite the modest progress made. Deficiencies still continue inmost areas o f the
public financial management cycle from Parliamentary oversight and budget preparation to internal
controls and external audit.

3.       The key issues faced by GRZ in ensuring a transparent and accountable public sector are
the need to:

         (i) develop a budget and procurement system with greater transparency and
                 effectiveness;
         (ii) furtherimproveaccountabilityandtransparencyintheuseofpublicfunds;
         (iii) effectivelyright-sizeministriesandagenciesbasedonorganizationalfunctionsand
                 the budget envelope;
         (iv)    implement pay reforms that include incentives that would attract and retain skilled
                 and professional staff inkey sectors;
         (v)     ensure that a decentralization strategy i s implemented in step with the capacity o f
                 central government agencies to support it and the absorptive capacity o f local
                 governments to undertake effective service delivery.

Rationale for IDA involvement

4.       On March 28, 2000 the Board o f Executive Directors approved the Public Sector Capacity
BuildingProject (PSCAP) as a thirteen year Adaptable ProgramLending (APL)program. The first

                                              4


phase o f PSCAP became effective on October 3, 2000 and was closed on June 30, 2005. The
PSCAP Project Appraisal Document (PAD) lays out the basic parameters for all three phases o f the
APL. This project, the Public Sector Management Program Support Project (PSMP-SP), is the
second phase o f the APL. The performance triggers for the second phase o f the APL have been
met and include pay reforms in the senior and technical cadres, establishment and payroll controls,
introduction o f a MTEF and the production o f audited annual financial statements for selected
ministries.

5.      Duringthe design phase o fPSCAP, it was envisaged that inaddition to IDA, other donors
would also provide funds to the program.         However, only the Department for International
Development (DFID) provided funds to the payroll management component and the other donors
didnot formalize their support to PSCAP.

6.      IDA'Sfundingwill be made through a harmonized approach o fpooling o f funds with other
donors to the Public Service Reform Program (PSRP). The two components o f the PSRP are a
US$lOO millionprogram to which IDA i s contributing US$30 million and the rest to be funded by
other Donors (referred to as GRZ's Cooperating Partners). It i s on this basis that the IDA support
to the program i s being called "Public Sector Management Program-Support Project" (PSMP-SP).
Donors that have agreed to provide funds to the GRZ's program through a pooling arrangement
include the United Kingdom, European Union (EU), Germany, Norway, Denmark, Finland,
Ireland, the Netherlands, Sweden and United Nations Development Program (UNDP).                The
InternationalMonetary Fund (IMF) i s also fully involved but its support will be earmarked to fund
technical assistance activities. GRZ has also requested its Cooperating Partners including IDA to
support the retrenchment activities under the program. IDA has agreed to provide US$lO.O million
o f the proposed Credit o f US$30.0 to fund GRZ's retrenchment costs which will be disbursed
outside o f the pool.

7.      The preparation o f the program has been based on a number o f studies including the
GRZ/World Bank Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Report (PEMFA)
diagnostic report, a complementary study by Oxford Policy Management completed for DFID, the
GRZ Public Service Reform Priorities Report and the report o f the multi-donor appraisal teams.
IDA has worked closely with GRZ and other development partners to ensure consistency across
program components.

The proposed implementation period o f PSMP-SP i s five years.           PSMP-SP will have three
components: (a) the Public Expenditure Management and Financial accountability (PEMFA)
component; (b) the Public Service Management (PSM) component; and (c) Retrenchment
component.

Higher levelobjectives to which the project contributes

8.      The PSMP-SP supports the emphasis in the Zambia Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PRSP) on the importance o f public service management capacity in the leadership and
management o f PRSP programs. The project will also continue to support the CAS Strategic
Priority 3 which i s to improve the efficiency and effectiveness o f the management o f the public
service. The project is part o f the multi-donor effort to advance and entrench the progress made to
date inpublic expenditure management and public service management reforms.

                                               5


PROJECTDESCRIPTION

LendingInstrument

9.       The proposed project will continue to be supported through an Adaptable ProgramLending
(APL) facility with a focus on institutional reform and capacity building. The use of an APL is
best suited for this operation as the initiatives being supported require sustained changes in
operation and behavior in GRZ ministries, departments and institutions are key to successfully
implementing GRZ's PSRP reform program.            The initiatives include: (i)improvement in the
process o f determining budget allocations so they can further support poverty reduction; (ii)
continue the reinforcement o f the role o f the budget as an instrument to reflect government
priorities and the discipline neededinthe use o f public funds; (iii)
                                                                    further increase the transparency
and accountability in the budget and procurement systems to hold the government accountable for
better performance; (iv) improve pay and incentive system; and, (v) realign ministry structures and
management incentives to work in tune with increased performance and public service delivery.
Direct budget support cannot be used, as under the CAS it i s envisaged that this will only be
available to Zambia when it i s inthe highcase. Currently Zambia i s in the base case.

ProjectPhases

10.      As the program goal o f a public finance and management transformation in the Zambian
public service was expected to take a long time to be effectively implemented, IDA committed
itself to a 13-year initiative by providing support through an Adaptable Program Lending (APL)
instrument. The first phase, PSCAP, was intended to set the stage for designing and beginning the
implementation o f critical sector wide reforms that will support improved service delivery in the
sectors. The second phase o f the APL, i s aimed at making public service delivery institutions and
processes more effective and efficient by enhancing the efficiency and accountability o f the
management o f public expenditures and the public service in line with the GRZ strategies to
support poverty reduction and promote economic growth.

Phase I1Triggers

11.      The performance triggers for the second phase have been fully met as detailed inAnnex 15
and summarized below:


      0    Pay Reform:     All Permanent Secretaries are now employed on three-year fixed term
           contracts. Work to develop performance related contracts was completed and moderate
           progress made in monetizing all public service benefits.          Some allowances were
           abolished, others consolidated into basic pay However, full consolidation o f allowances
           could not be achieved because o f its effect on the pension liabilities o f the government.
           Currently, GRZ with assistance from IDA, i s in the process o f reforming the pension
           scheme and revising the Pensions Act. Despite the challenges encountered with the wage
           bill, the Government has made progress, within its capacity, towards this target since the
           Cabinet approved the Medium Term Pay Reform Strategy (MTPRS). For instance, from
           April 1, 2003, the salaries o f key professional and technical staff were increased by an
           average o f almost 100%whereas those o f non-key staff were increasedby only 35%.

      0   Establishment and Payroll Control: The implementation o f the computer-based Payroll
           Management and Establishment Control (PMEC) system has reached an advanced stage.
           All payrolls, except that o f the Ministry o f Health, are now on PMEC and the data

                                               6


         cleaning exercise i s now routine and this has helped to ensure actual establishment i s
         reflectedinthe payroll data.


     0   Financial and Policy Management:             The Medium Term Expenditure Framework
          (MTEF) has been in place for the past two years and has also been the basis for
         disbursements for the past two fiscal years. Inaddition, GRZ has introduced the Activity
         Based Budgeting System. All Cabinet Memoranda that have financial implications are
         n o w required to be cleared by the Ministry o f Finance and National Planning (MoFNP)
         before they are presentedto Cabinet for approval.

     0   Financial Management and Accountability: The trigger was that the 2001 end-of-year
          financial statement for the seven ministriespiloting the Performance Improvement Fund
          (PIF) should be ready for review by the Auditor General within six months o f the end
         each year. This trigger was met fully and the Auditor General's report on the audit of
         government accounts was for the first time tabled before the deadline o f December 3 1,
         2003 as per regulations for the 2002 government financial statements.

Phase IIITriggers

12.          The following are the triggers for Phase I11o fthe APL:

                                                  Box 1
                                      Triggers to PhaseI11of APL
 PEMFA
 0  Activity based budgeting are inplace in all ministries, departments and institutions aligned with
    and linked to the MTEFprocess;
 0  Auditor General's report on performance against MTEFbudget i s submitted to Parliament
    within statutory limits; and
 0  Draft legislation i s developed for the decentralization o f Public Procurement and the
    strengthening o f the oversight and regulatory role o f the Zambia National Tender Board (ZNTB).
 -
 PSM
 0  Establishment and payroll management are decentralized;
 0  Rationalizedroles ,functions and structures for ministriesand spending agencies are fully
    implemented;
 0  At least four ministriespublish service delivery charters and scorecards are available; and
 0  Pay reform i s completed and it i s consistent with the ability o f Public Service to recruit and retain
    staff incritical and professional posts.


Project DevelopmentObjective

13.     The project development objective is to make public service delivery institutions and
processes more effective and efficient by enhancing the efficiency and accountability o f the
management o f public expenditures and the public service in line with the GRZ strategies to
support poverty reduction and promote economic growth.

                                               7



Key PerformanceIndicators

14.     The key performance indicators will focus mainly on continuous improvement o f budget,
financial and human resource management systems and institutionalizing these results oriented
management systems as follows:

     Activity based budgeting i s inplace inall ministries, departments and institutionsaligned with
     and linked to the MTEFprocess;
     Percentage o f deviation o f actual spending from approved budget reduced from over 20% to
     under 15% o f approved budget;
     Time taken to prepare audited annual reports for GRZ accounts is within statutory limits;
     There are no significant discrepancies between clean payroll and staff establishment;
     At least four ministrieshave publishservice delivery charters and their scorecards are made
     available; and
     Draft legislation for public procurement to be decentralized and overseen and regulated by the
     Zambia National Tender Board.

Projectcomponents

15.     The PSMP-SP has three components: (i)Public Expenditure Management and Financial
Accountability (PEMFA); (ii)    Public Service Management (PSM); and (iii)   Retrenchments. Annex
4 provides a more detaileddescription o f the project and estimated project costs are summarized in
Annex 5. The sets o f activities to be carried out under each subcomponent are shown ina technical
appendix. IDA'Ssupport to the PEMFA and PSM components will be provided through a pooling
arrangement. IDA'Ssupport for retrenchments, however, will be earmarked.

COMPONENT 1: Public ExpenditureManagement and FinancialAccountability (PEMFA)
(US$67.36 million).

16.     This component has evolved from the work started under the first phase o f the APL and
from the PEMFA Review conducted in2001 by the Government and IDA with support from other
donors. The review drew heavily on existing World Bank diagnostic tools such as the Country
Financial Accountability Assessments (CFAA) and the Country Procurement Assessment Review
(CPAR) and identified a number of problems with the public finance system, despite progress with
other reform initiatives. Following the assessments, discussions between GRZ and various donors
(including IDA) on the PEMFA reforms were initiated; proposals for funding were discussed and
agreed. The component consists o f 12 interrelated sub-components, each o f which addresses a
specific institutional or capacity deficit identified in the reviews/assessments undertaken. Within
the SWAP arrangements, a lead donor has been identified for each subcomponent. Work will be
managedby a Task Manager for each component who will report to a PEMFA Steering Committee
headed by the Secretary to the Treasury. The PEMFA Steering Committee will report to the PSRP
Steering Committee. Although the ultimate responsibility for the PEMFA reforms rests with the
Ministry o f Finance and National Planning, there are a number of other institutions directly
involved in the component such as the Zambia National Tender Board, the Office o f the Auditor
General, Parliament, the Zambia Institute o f Chartered Accountants and the Ministry o f Justice.
The comprehensive nature o f the PEMFA reforms under this component makes it stand out from
previous efforts on which it builds upon.

                                             8


17.      The key elements of the component include the roll-out of an Integrated Financial
Management Information System (IFMIS), development o f a macroeconomic budget model,
improvement o f budget presentation, a better cash release system, improvement o f the debt
management strategy and systems, strengthening o f internal and external audit functions and
Parliamentary committees, and reform o f the public procurement system.

18.      Activities to achieve the various components will include technical assistance, training,
installation o f equipment such as computers, and some civil works. It i s important to emphasize
that the PEMFA component has not been developed in isolation, but i s an extension o f other
government initiatives including the Activity Based Budgeting (ABB) system introduced in 2004
and improvementsalready made inthe financial management system.

         The 13 subcomponents o f the PEMFA component are outlined below.

     Commitment Control and Financial Management System. The objective o f this
     subcomponent i s to implement more effective financial management and commitment control
     systems.    This component is intended to roll out the financial management system to all
     central spending agencies and provinces and implement a new treasury management system.
     Commitment control systems will be improved by integrating them into the financial
     management system and effective sanctions will be taken against controlling officers who do
     not respect commitment control policies and spending ceilings. Work under this
     subcomponent will involve a major reform o f the government's accounting system to address
     the problems associated with manual record-keeping and out-of-date technology, along with
     incompatibility between budget preparation, budget execution and payroll management
     procedures.

     Integrated FinancialManagement Information Systems (IFMIS) Implementation. The
     objective o f this subcomponent i s to improve public expenditure through an automated
     financial management system in order to ensure efficient and effective use o f public resources.
     It is envisaged that full implementationo f a system o f financial management and commitment
     control through provision o f hardware and software for an integrated financial information
     management system (IFMIS) that should support timely and accurate recording o f financial
     data by all spending agencies.

     Improved Fiscal Policy and Economic Planning. This subcomponent is intended to
     implement a policy-based budgetary process that i s able to facilitate effective mobilization
     and allocation o f resources in a systematic, efficient and predictable manner. The activities
     will focus on developing a multi-year economic planning tool to complement the MTEF,
     producing a new macroeconomic model on which to base this tool and other analyses.
     Activities will include reviews o f existing planning processes, data collection methods,
     constructiono f a consistency framework and o f a budget forecasting tool.

     Reformed Budget Preparationand Budget Execution. The objective of the subcomponent
     i s to establish a more credible budgeting process and a transparent budget document. GRZ
     will be expected to implement the budget in a more efficient and predictable manner with
     reduced variance between budget and actual spending. This subcomponent will support the
     development o f a more user-friendly budget document, undertakingregular public expenditure
     reviews and improving the cash release system.

     Improved Debt Management. This subcomponent is intended to implement reforms that
     will lead to better management o f Zambia's debt, both domestic and external and to

                                           9


 effectively manage government investments. The focus will be on the provision o f support to
 the Investment and Debt Management (IDM) Department through the Treasury Department in
 the implementation o f capacity building initiatives especially those related to back office
 functions o f IDM. Among the outcomes o f this subcomponent are the finalization and
 adoption o f a public debt management strategy and development o f a public debt market.
 Activities will also be undertaken in the development o f an accurate centralized database o f
 debt data, harmonization o f the laws governing the contraction o f debt to reflect the new debt
 management and reduction strategies and development o f a policy on parastatal debt.


0Improved Internal Audit. The objective of this subcomponent is to strengthen internal
 controls for improved public expenditure management and financial accountability. Activities
 under this subcomponent will include: (i)building capacity through a range o f training
 programs and consultancies and providing computers and vehicles to enable the department to
 undertake audits in remote areas; (ii)reviewing and enhancing internal control systems and
 implementation o f training programs to enhance the professional development o f staff.
 Institutional and procedural linkages between the Office o f the Auditor General, the Zambia
 Institute o f Chartered Accountants (ZICA), the Anti-Corruption Commission (ACC), the Drug
 Enforcement Commission (DEC), and the Office o f the Ombudsman will also be redefined
 and strengthened.


0Better ExternalFinance Co-ordination. This subcomponent is intended to improve overall
 budgetary planning and coordination o f external financing by integrating donor partner flows
 into the budget. This subcomponent complements the budget planning, debt management and
 economic planning subcomponents, but focuses specifically on strengthening the coordination
 role o f the External Technical Cooperation Department o f the MOFNP. Capacity building
 activities that will be implemented under this subcomponent will be based on the
 recommendations o f the GRZ's AID Policy currently being developed under the
 Harmonization inPractice (HIP) agenda that i s expected to be completed by December 2006.

0Consistent Legal Frameworkfor Public ExpenditureManagement. The objective o f this
 subcomponent i s to implement a consistent and harmonized legal framework to support
 financial management transparency and accountability            in the public service.        This
 subcomponent i s intended to provide the needed technical assistance and equipment related to
 the review and harmonization o f existing legislation on public expenditure management.
  Support will also be provided for capacity buildinginitiatives related to the implementation o f
 legislative reforms including provision o f funds to train staff in the Ministry o f Justice in
 legislative drafting.

0 Strengthened External Audit (Office of the Auditor General OAG). The objective of
                                                                      -
 this subcomponent is to enhance the external auditing function for improved accountability
 and transparency in the use o f public resources.        Identified challenges related to the
 restructuring o f the OAG, retention o f staff and implementation o f audit standards i s currently
 being funded under a separate agreement with the Norwegian and Netherlands Governments.
 The main activities financed under this subcomponent will enhance the institutional capacity
 o f the OAG to decentralize to districts and provinces. This work was started under the first
 phase but was discontinued when funds earmarked for this activity were reallocated to the
 public service retrenchment payments.


0Enhancing Parliamentary Oversight. This subcomponent is intended to develop the
 capacity o f Parliament to fully execute its oversight role in the management o f public

                                                10


     resources through the: (i)provision o f technical assistance, training and equipment to the
     members and staff o f the Parliamentary Accounts and Budget and Estimates Committees; (ii)
     expansion o f existing facilities to improve public participation in parliamentary business; (iii)
     implementation o f a modernizedmanagement information system for the various committees;
     and (iv) implementation o f stronger linkages between the Public Accounts Committee, the
     Office o f the Auditor General, other institutions so that reports and standing orders are
     adequately and effectively handled. Links between the Budget and Estimates Committee and
     the Ministry o f Finance and National Planning's Budget Office will also be strengthened to
     help enhance the capacity and input o f the Parliamentary committee inthe budgetary process.

     Accountancy Training and Regulation. The objectives o f this subcomponent include: (i)
     strengthening o f the accountancy profession which i s a key sector in the civil society; and (ii)
     improvement in effective regulatory services essential in promoting high professional and
     ethical standards in the accountancy profession. Activities will include: (i)   strengthening o f
     the legal framework; (ii) preparation and enforcement o f a prescriptive code o f conduct for the
     profession; (iii)installation o f an integrated data management system in ZICA to manage its
     professional regulatory functions; (iv) reorganization o f the Zambia Institute o f Chartered
     Accountants (ZICA) with the aim o f making it capable to adequately execute its role as a one
     stop accountancy resource centre.

     Public Procurement Reform. The subcomponent is intended to promote and institutionalize
     a more transparent, accountable and efficient public procurement system as a means for
     improving expenditure management. Among the outcomes o f this subcomponent include: (i)
     preparation o f the new Procurement Act draft and revised guidelines; (ii)enhancement o f
     procurement practices; (ii)implementation o f a code o f conduct; (iii)establishment o f
     Procurement and Supplies Unit in all ministries, provinces and spending units; and (iv)
     transformation o f the Zambia National Tender Board into a more effective and transparent
     regulatory and oversight body.

     PEMFA Secretariat. The PEMFA Secretariat will be the primary mechanismfor component
     oversight and facilitation o f the linkages between the 12 vertical components. The secretariat
     will also be responsible for preparing all management and monitoring reports for the Joint
     Technical Working Group, the PEMFA Steering Committee (see the implementation
     arrangements) and the donors.

COMPONENT 2: PublicService ManagementComponent (PSM) (US$22.83 million).

20.      The need to right-size the public service to sustainable levels and to enhance performance
and quality o f service delivery has been under Government consideration since the early 1970s
when the effects o f the oil crisis forced the Government to re-examine the bloated, inefficient,
ineffective and unresponsive public service. Over the years, the Government experienced problems
inthe management o fthe public service, which ledto difficulties to recruit, motivate andretainkey
technical and professional staff, resulting in brain drain and low productivity in the public service.
It was, however, not until 1993, that right-sizing, pay reform and performance management
assumed a centre stage inthe reform o f the public service through the P S W .

21.      The PSM component i s a key ingredient o f the overall Public Service Reform Program
(PSRP). This component focuses on the effective management o f the people employed in the
public service in order to improve their performance and that o f the ministries and institutions for
which they work.    It i s a prerequisite for effective implementation o f the other two components.
The PEMFA component will not succeed without a public service where employees are carrying

                                                11


out the right jobs, possess the appropriate skills to undertake them, and are motivated to perform
well. Even the best designed financial management systems and service delivery machinery, for
instance, must rely upon people to make them work well. All three components, therefore, must
move forward together.

22.     The MTEF i s a key driver o f this component which should provide for the strategic
allocation of Government resources to achieve the national objectives articulated in the PRSP and
the Transitional National Development Plan (TNDP).                  The recently approved national
decentralization policy establishes the delivery mechanism for achieving Government's strategic
objectives, most critically those related to service delivery for citizens.

23.     The PSM component aims to build upon and embed the rightsizing, pay and performance
management reforms which Government launched in 1993, and which were given further impetus
through the World Bank funded PSCAP project and the support o f DFID. Despite the
achievements which are documented in the following sections, there remains a considerable
amount o f unfinished work to keep the public service wage bill under effective control and to
ensure that the overall size o f the service i s maintained at levels that can be afforded. The
Rightsizing and Payroll Management and Establishment Control (PMEC) sub-components will be
critical to achieving these aims. The emphasis o f rightsizing will be placed on ensuring the
composition o f the workforce in each ministry and institution i s appropriate for the services to be
delivered and consistent with the approved budgetary ceilings. Tackling the H N i A I D S pandemic
in the public service and promoting gender equality will both make a contribution to achieving a
skilled and productive workforce at all levels. And by linking all appointments to approved
establishments, PMEC will ensure that staffing i s maintained at the agreed levels, and that salaries
and allowances are accurately paid.

24.      Rightsizing and payroll management and establishment control are key elements in the
creation o f a better motivated and performance-oriented public service.       So far, pay ranges have
been decompressed both to motivate and retain professional and managerial staff.           Through the
development o f a comprehensive public service pay policy, attention will now be given to the
establishment o f a revised pay structure, consolidation o f salaries and most allowances, in which
appropriate pay levels are established throughout the public service.      The restructuring plans have
identified that pay levels should be more closely related to the jobs people are doing and the skills
they need to perform them. The creation o f adequate fiscal space i s a precondition for achieving
this aim in a sustainable way. But improved planning and budgeting for personnel emoluments
will be necessary if these resources are to be translated into a revised pay structure that can be
afforded, both interms o f current remunerationand future pension liabilities.

25.      At the same time, clear performance expectations need to be established for employees so
that Government can obtain good value for money from the investment in pay reform. In order to
do this, the performance management processes need to be made to work better and more
consistently across the service. Inthe short-term, these processes will be kept as simple as possible
until budget predictability has improved.       Steps will also be taken to remove the institutional
blockages that are preventing ministries from achieving their service delivery objectives through a
revamped Performance Improvement Fund(PIF) called the Service Delivery Improvement Facility
(SDIF) .

26.      The overarching policy goal o f the PSM component is to enhance the delivery of services
for Zambian citizens and to create an appropriate institutional environment for reducingpoverty. It
will achieve this by focusing on "demand-side" interventions which empower citizens and clients
to put legitimate pressure on the public service to do better, as well as on the traditional "supply

                                               12


side" measures such as employment and pay reform. The subcomponents o f the PSM component
are the following:

 0   Rightsizing. This subcomponent intends to assist GRZ in making all government ministries
     and institutions maintain a staffing complement that i s consistent with the agreed mandates
     and affordable inrelation to the agreed budget ceilings.

  e Pay reform. This subcomponent will deal with reform initiatives associated with employee
     remunerationand job performance. The intent i s to ensure that the public service institutions
     are: (i)able to attract and retain essential technical, professional and managerial staff; (ii)
                                                                                                  pay
     arrangements support and reinforce improved service delivery; and (iii)implement pay
     increases that are consistent with the resource envelope.

 e   Service Delivery Improvement.             T h i s subcomponent will deal with the effective
     management o f the performance o f all Government ministries and institutions within an
     agreed framework of planned objectives and standards. It will include activities intended to
     improve capacity for delivering better services.

  0  Payroll management and establishment control. This subcomponent intends to promote
     the effective management o f personnel emoluments and establishments for the public service
     at agreed levels.

  e PSM Secretariat. The subcomponent will            fund the PSM Secretariat whose primary role is to
     provide oversight and facilitate the linkages between the four sub-components. The secretariat
     will also be responsible for preparing all management and monitoring reports for the Joint
     Technical Working Group, the Deputy Secretary to Cabinet - Finance and Economic
     Development, the PSRP Steering Committee (see the implementation arrangements), GRZ
     and donors.

27. Although the above subcomponents and their interrelationships are clearly specified, the PSM
component will be managed as a flexible program. Further systemic problems affecting service
delivery (e.g. slow recruitment o f "front-line" staff) may be identified as the program unfolds.
Such issues will be discussed with cooperating partners during the annual review process and,
where agreement i s reached, relevant measures will be incorporated withinthe program.

COMPONENT3: Retrenchments($10.0 million).

28.      GRZ envisages that retrenchment will be necessary under its rightsizing agenda within the
PSM. Insome cases those retrenched have not been fully absorbed by the private sector since the
latter has also shrunk over the years and this has greatly contributed to the increase in the general
unemployment levels. This i s compounded by a lack o f sound and sustainable reform of the public
service pension scheme which cannot adequately provide the benefits to pensioners, beneficiaries
and retrenchees. Further, the Public Service Pensions Fund and public service institutions are
faced with operational problems that hinder timely processing o f payments.

29.      Consequently, the Government will need to mobilize adequate resources for paying
separation packages and for implementing a comprehensive social safety net program to cushion
the impact o f unemployment on those who will be retrenched. GRZ has requested support from its
cooperating partners to meet the financing gap for paying severance packages to retrenched staff.
This will be separately funded outside the pooled mechanisms.

                                                13



30.      Although some employees who will be separated through the hiving o f f o f the government
department will be re-employed by the autonomous road agencies and water utilities, they will still
need to be retrenched and paid their benefits because their employment status will change. It i s
envisaged that the majority o f separations financed will be on a compulsory basis especially for
institutions with staffing levels beyond the requiredassessedlevels.

3 1.      GRZ has indicated that the proposed severance program is a pre-requisite to a successful
implementation o f the PSRP and the smooth running o f the road agencies and the water utilities.
The Government has the view that IDA'S financial support i s essential to complete the
retrenchment exercise successfully.

LessonsLearnedandReflectedinthe ProjectDesign

32.       The various lessons learned and reflected inthe project design are the following:

  e   Quality at Entry: One o f the key lessons o f implementing the first phase is the need for
      adequate preparationon the part o f Government. Focused on ensuring that all the prerequisites
      to facilitate the timely implementation o f project activities are in place. This should include:
      (i)havingtheProjectImplementationPlan(PIP) prepared; (ii) necessary staffingin
                                                                          having
      place; and (iii)   preparation o f procurement procedures and financial management. With
      regard to this project, the PIP, procurement and financial management procedures and
      guidelines have been developed. The terms o f reference for the appropriate staffing o f the
      implementation units have been developed and GRZ has commenced the recruitment
      processes.

  e   Commitment and Ownership: For any broad reforms to succeed there is need for one or
      more champions who should ordinarily be chief executives or permanent secretaries. Under
      the first phase, a number o f interventions were implemented. For these interventions to be
      sustained, permanent secretaries and chief executives were expected to personally champion
      the implementation o f the activities. In the design o f this phase, management o f project
      implementation will be the responsibility o f the steering committees that will be made up o f
      senior officers within MoFNP and Cabinet Office.            The steering committees will have
      members from institutions other than those implementing the activities. In the preparation o f
      the two components GRZ has been involved and was participated fully in the appraisal o f the
      components.      GRZ set up technical working groups, to which donors where invited to
      participate. These technical working groups consisted o f the task managers from the
      government side who were responsible for preparing the project including the work plans that
      will be funded.

  e   Limitemon implementation of consultancies: Under PSCAP a number of consultancies
      were supported to assist government ministries and institutions to come up with better ways o f
      conducting their business. However, a number o f beneficiary institutions viewed consultancy
      reports as ends in themselves and in some cases failed to implement recommendations from
      the consultancies. It i s also possible that the consultancies were not viewed as a priority to the
      beneficiary institutiondministries. The PSMP design has considered this implementation
      failure and has validated ownership o f these outstanding recommendations through the various
      GRZ Technical Working Groups. The PSMP will, therefore, implement the outstanding
      recommendations made by the various consultancies undertaken during the first phase.

                                           14


0Procurement delays: In the first phase a number o f delays were experienced at various
 stages o f the procurement process

aTo address these delays the procurement process has been streamlined by: (i)clustering the
 activities so as to sign fewer contracts; (ii)decentralizing the procurement to the two
 components; and (iii)outsourcing the procurement function and reviewingharmonizing the
 procurement procedures and guidelines.

aFinancialManagement and Disbursement: The first phase of the project was implemented
 with limited accounting staff in the target ministries and agencies. In addition the financial
 management system that was acquired was not supported by adequate local technical backup
 services despite management intervention and assurances from the supplier that the problems
 would be sorted out.        Although disbursements were largely carried out with minimal
 problems, there was room for improvement.              For instance, the decentralization of
 disbursement arrangements could have allowed implementing institutions to disburse even
 faster and implement the activities in a more timely manner. The Government has indicated
 that it will provide adequate accounting staff to support the project implementation units.The
 disbursement arrangements have been redesigned to minimize disbursement delays. As the
 funds will be pooled, it is envisaged that the donors will release funds on a semi annual basis
 to an account at the Bank o f Zambia. Details o f the disbursement arrangements are included
 inAnnex 7.

 Information, Education and Communication (IEC): One of the most important lessons
 learned for implementing a complex program involving public service reforms i s the need for
  an effective IEC strategy right from the start. A communication strategy has been designed
  for PSMP.

  Counterpart Funding: The first phase was negatively affectedby Government's inability to
 provide counterpart funding as provided for in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA).
 This hampered the smooth implementation o f planned project activities. This is why 100%
  expenditure eligibility i s proposed for the Association's support to this project. Moreover,
  other donors supporting the public service reforms and with whom IDA i s pooling funds are
 not requesting counterpart funding.


0Design: The design of a complex program dealing with public service refoms requires
  extensive consultations seeking to reach consensus with key players and stakeholders and
  especially strong ownership by Government. Although substantial consultations were carried
  out during the design stage o f the first phase, a few shortcomings were realized during the
  implementation which suggests that consultations could have been done more extensively.
  Extensive consultations through the GRZ Technical Working Groups were carried out during
 the preparation o f the proposed second phase and which was a joint effort between
  government and the donors.


0 Effective Management of the Information and Communication Technology (ICT):
  Global experience points to the shortcomings o f technology driven institutional development
  efforts characterized by oversized and too complex I C T solutions, insufficient involvement of
 key operational units and inadequate staff training. Thus, in the implementation o f the IFMIS
  and PMEC systems, the project: (i)stresses the policy reforms and institutional changes that
 the new ICT will support so that this subcomponent i s policy driven not IT driven; (ii)
  emphasizes the need to design the ICT solutions realistically in line with the actual needs o f

                                               15


      the implementing ministries/agencies and the functional roles o f the concerned operational
      units; and (iii)
                     addresses change management needs through skills development and technical
      support from a central ICT team, linked to change management agentdteams in relevant
      ministries/agencies as key elements o f successful ICT implementation.


 0    SelectingCommittedPartners: When the first phase was being designed it was meant to be
      a multi-donor supported project.       Consequently, the total budget for the first phase was
      estimated at US$45 million. However, only IDA and DFIDprovided a combined funding o f
      US$38.00 to support some o f the planned activities under the first phase o f the program. This
      forced the Government to scale down the budgets and dropped some o f the planned activities.
      The current project components have beenpreparedinconjunction with other donors (through
      the Harmonization in practice mechanisms through the GRZ Technical Working Groups) and
      it is envisaged that financing o f the components will be done through a.pooledmechanism as
      reflectedinthe multi-donor MoU's for the two components.

AlternativesConsidered and Reasonsfor Rejection

33.       IDA could have continued funding the second phase o f the PSCAP project on it's own as
earlier designed.   This option was discarded as GRZ has identified a larger reform program
estimated to cost over US$102.0 million over the next 5 years and has adopted a policy o frequiring
donors to cooperate to develop joint sectoral/thematic programs rather than a plethora o f individual
donor projects. Under the principals o f Harmonization inPractice, IDA as a signatory to the MOU,
agreed to work with other partners to support GRZ's programs in a harmonized manner. IDA
could also have insisted on continuing with the name o f PSCAP I1for this phase o f the APL, but
that would go against the spirit o f the harmonization process and IDA'Spolicy o f projects being
government led.

34.       Insupporting the reforms, IDA could have targeted its support to specific activities of the
program instead o f pooling funds. Again this would have been a departure from the requirements
o f the GRZ which are very specific inrequiringdevelopment partners to pool funds and harmonize
their procurement, financial management and reportingprocesses.

IMPLEMENTATION

PartnershipArrangements

35.       The PSMP-SP i s proposedas IDA'Scontributionto a harmonized approach to public sector
capacity building inZambia in which IDA i s partnering through a SWAP with other donors such as
the United Kingdom, European Union (EU), Germany, Norway, Denmark, Finland, Ireland, the
Netherlands, Sweden and UNDP to fund public service reform activities. The IMF will not pool
funds butwill also participate by providing technical assistance. The Government of the Republic
o f Zambia (GRZ) has indicated that it prefers SWAP arrangements to individual donor project
support. The contribution o f the EU, however, will be in the form o fbudget support to the PEMFA
component.

Institutionaland ImplementationArrangements

36.       Overall oversight and policy guidance will be providedby the PSRP Steering Committee, a
committee o f chief executives, chaired by the Secretary to the Cabinet and assisted by a Secretariat,

                                                16


37.     Implementation o f components o f the PSMP-SP will be overseen by two groups, the
PEMFA Steering Committee (PEMFA SC) and the office o f the Deputy Secretary to Cabinet
Finance and Economic Development (DSC-FED). These groups will report directly the PSRP SC
and will ensure that implementing units comply with the PSMP program policy guidelines
mandated by the latter and will be assisted by a Project Secretariat. The decentralized institutional
arrangements similar to those under PSCAP will continue under the PSMP, whereby the
implementing units, under the direction o f the steering committees through the Project Secretariats,
will be responsible for carrying out procurement tasks, drafting TORS, selecting consultants,
defining equipment needs, and preparingtraining plans.

Management andImplementationArrangements

38.     The PEMFA SC will be chaired by the Secretary to the Treasury. Membership o f the
PEMFA SC includes the Secretary to the Treasury, the two permanent secretaries inthe Ministry o f
Finance and National Planning, the two Permanent Secretaries at Cabinet Office, Permanent
Secretary   - Ministry o f Justice, the Clerk o f National Assembly, the Governor of the Bank of
Zambia, the Commissioner General o f the Zambia Revenue Authority, the Director General o f the
Zambia National Tender Board and the State Audit Secretary o f the Office o f the Auditor General.
It will be assisted by a Project Secretariat which will be staffed with a Project Director,
Procurement Manager, Finance Manager, M&E Specialist, Legal Framework Expert and Capacity
Development Specialist. The heads o f these agencies will be responsible for the implementationo f
their specific subcomponents o f the program.

39.     The office o f the Deputy Secretary to the Cabinet in charge o f Finance and Economic
Development will provide high level oversight and backstopping on policy issues in the
management o f the PSM Component. The permanent secretary (MDD) will be responsible for the
day to day management o f the PSM Component. The project secretariat will be responsible for
providing technical and logistical support and backstopping to the Sub-components in order to
achieve project objectives and outputs.       The project secretariat will be staffed with a project
director, procurement manager, finance manager, M&E specialist, communications manager and
service delivery improvement facility project manager.

40.     The implementation arrangements for the PSM shall apply to the third component
(Retrenchments) as the management o f public servants i s the responsibility o f Cabinet office.

41.     The PEMFA SC and office o f the DSC-FED will hold separate meetings on a quarterly
basis and will oversee program implementation and co-ordination o f their components' work plans
and budgets. They will also propose and negotiate contributions by the cooperating partners (CP)
duringits semi-annual meeting with the latter. Semi-annual meetings with the CP heads o f mission
will facilitate policy dialogue with GRZ through the PSRP SC. The latter will also serve as the
forum to discuss and review periodic reports on the implementation o f the program and approval o f
funding for the annual work-plans. Specific responsibilities o f the PEMFA SC and the office o f
DSC-FED include: (i)     review and approval o f annual work programs, budgets, and procurement
plans; (ii) review o f quarterly reports; (iii) o f agreed performance targets; (iv) analysis o f
                                               review
implementation timelines for achieving key outputs to ensure that these are achievable; and (v)
identification o f critical risks that could hinder efficient implementation o f project activities and
adoption o f measures to mitigate these risks.

                                                17


MonitoringandEvaluationof OutcomesLResults

42.     The outcomes and results o f the government's program will be monitored on the basis of
the agreed performance indicators shown inAnnex 3.

43.     The project will be subject to regular supervision missions that will monitor progress
through Implementation status reports (ISRs), a mid-term review and an implementation
completion report (ICR). The latter two reports will both be jointly prepared by IDA and the
relevant implementing units and the results discussed and presented to relevant stakeholders
through the component steering committees and the higher level committees to which they report.

Sustainability

44.     There are a number o f factors that could impact sustainability o f the PSMP both interms o f
sustaining a continuation o f the implementation o f the program from year to year, as well as
sustainability o f the positive outcomes in the quality o f public expenditure and public service
management after the end o f the reform program. They include:

        0    MacroeconomicStability.This may well be derailed if Zambia should fail to stay the
             course of its macroeconomic recovery and achieve growth that would lead to a
             lowering o f dependency on external grants and loans. Not being able to contain
             HIV/AJDS would represent a major threat to the sustainability o f both the
             implementation as well as the longer term quality o f public expenditure and public
             service management inZambia.

        0    PoliticalWill. While political commitment for the PSMP reform program has been
             well demonstrated so far, the continuing commitment to a reform process which i s
             demanding on both human and fiscal resources will present a serious challenge.
             Sustainability o f the programrequires full commitment at the highestpolitical levels.

        0    Transition Arrangements: A proper transition o f the PSMP subcomponents to
             mainstream public service structures at the end o f the program i s crucial to ensure
             sustainability o f the positive outcomes o f the reform program. An effective transition
             needs to be characterized by the inclusion o f recurrent costs into the national budget
             and the appropriate transfer o f PEMFA and PSM management and reporting
             mechanisms to public service structures in order to sustain whatever gains may have
             been achieved.

        0    Organizational Capacity to Continueto Implement the Reforms. Given the central
             role within the PSMP o f the Ministry o f Finance and National Planning (MoFNP) and
             Cabinet Office it i s particularly important that the two institutions achieve and
             maintain organizational capacity to leverage the gains made under the program in
             financial management and public service reforms for continuing reforms identified by
             GRZ.

        0    Retention of Key Categories of Staff. This will continue to pose a threat to the
             reform process both during the program implementation as well as after the program
             has ended. For example, IFMIS training will impart IT skills which are in very high
             demand outside o f the public service, which will remain a constant factor in attempting
             to retain IFMIS staff.       Government will need to build on the pay reform and

                                                18


              performance management initiatives within the PSMP-SP to implement effective staff
              retentionstrategies for key staff.

45.       The PSMP-SP i s envisaged to last five years and will address public expenditure
management reform and public service reforms in an accelerated comprehensive way. However,
i t s successful completion will not be an end to public service management reform in Zambia     -it is
anticipated that this will continue as a natural process o f public service development under
evolving national policies. A smooth and careful transition will need to be effected between the
PSMP management structures to the GRZ public service structures and budget. The third phase o f
the APL i s planned to institutionalize performance management and promote continuous
improvements through the systems that would have been developed in the first and second phase.
No separate institutional arrangements, such as progradproject subcomponents separate from
existingpublic service structures, will be included inthe thirdphase; rather support will be given to
existing institutions and structures.

46.       The establishment o f the secretariats i s premised on the understanding that these are
temporary institutional structures.    Upon the completion o f the PSMP-SP and the end to the
comprehensive and integrated emphasis on reform, many o f the functional roles will no longer be
required and hopefully, as should be the case for procurement management, capacity will have
been developed within the public service to assume these functions. However, there are key
functions that if absorbed and taken over by the MoFNP and Cabinet Office will help sustain
improvements achieved inpublic service management inZambia. These include:

       0  Maintaining the monitoring framework as a management tool;
       0  Maintaining, with the Ministry of Justice, the technical coordination o f the reform o f the
          legal and regulatory framework for public financial management, including changes
          anticipated to arise from constitutional amendments indicatedby the Constitutional Review
          Commission; and
       0  Further strengthening policy coordination mechanisms and capacity through decreasing
          vertical separation and increasing horizontal integration especially among central
          ministries/agencies inrelation to core public finance and human resource functions.

CriticalRisksand Possible Controversial Aspects

47.       The high level risks identified under the project are: (i)loss o f momentum for numerous
difficult reforms as elections will take place during implementation in 2006; (ii) sustaining support
for reform, particularly as implementation forces more difficult decisions and trade-offs; (iii)  union
and other political opposition to restrictions on increases in wages, the elimination o f some
allowances, and retrenchments; (iv) lack o f political will and resistance from central ministry staff
to implement the decentralization policy; (v) inability o f GRZ to create fiscal space in its budget to
pay higher salaries to public servants, thus unable to retain key categories o f staff; and (vi) IFMIS
implementation i s delayed due to lack o f adequate capacity in managing the complex process o f
institutionalizingthe continuously evolving field o f technology.

48.       Due to their nature, these risks can be mitigated by GRZ, IDA and the other cooperating
partners by maintaining a close, transparent dialogue with political leaders, key senior officials,
union leaders and other key stakeholders in addressing reform implementation issues.
Additionally, political risk can be mitigated by building coalitions o f "reform champions" across
political boundaries to address deeper governance issues. The IFMIS risk can be mitigated by
GRZ constituting a team o f experts to manage the IFMISimplementation process and ensuring that

                                                 19


all stakeholders adhere to the agreed schedule o f activities. The team will be incharge o f contractor
supervision, final design, software, hardware, networking implementation and training. GRZ will
also engage an IFMIS advisor who will support the team.

49.      Medium level risks have been identified as: (i)controlling officers ignore audits, bypass
IFMIS control systems and continue the informality o f budget execution; (ii)failure to build
support for the reforms from mid-level staff and from civil society and business services to ensure
sustainability; (iii)continued capacity constraints on key technical reform issues; and (iv) pay
reform measures not being implemented. All o f these risks can be addressed through strategies to
ensure that the PSRP SC and lower level steering committees maintain the reform momentum with
appropriate support from IDA and the other Cooperating Partners in adhering to budget
discipline, building capacity, improving incentives for supporting the reform program and by
clearly communicating the mediudlong term benefits o f the program to all public service staff
and the public.

                    Risk                               RiskMitigation Measures                     Risk
                                                                                                  Rating
                                                                                                   with
                                                                                                 Mitigation
    TO PROJECTDEVELOPMENT
               OBJECTIVE
 Loss o f momentum for numerous,           Continue to provide techmcal support to the top           M
 difficult reforms.                       professionals inthe public service.
 Sustaining support for reform,            Continued close dialogue with political leaders           H
 particularly as implementation forces     and key senior officials and address
 more difficult decisions and trade-offs.  implementation problems transparently.
      TO COMPONENT RESULTS                                                                                 ~




 PEMFA
 IFMIS implementation i s delayed due to   The IFMIS risk can be mitigated by GRZ                    H
 stakeholders not working readily with     constituting a team o f experts to manage the
 GRZto support implementationo f           JFMIS implementation process and ensure that
 IFMIS.                                    all stakeholders adhere to the agreed schedule o f
                                           activities. The team will be in charge o f
                                           contractor supervision, final design, software,
                                           hardware,      networking     implementation     and
                                           training. GRZ will also engage an IFMIS advisor
                                           who will support the team.
 Controlling Officers ignore audits,       Commitment to predictable budget supported by             M
 bypass IFMIS control systems and          the President and Cabinet, who would be
 continue informality o f budget           involved collectively inagreeing priorities as part
 execution                                 o f MTEF process. Enforce sanctions against
                                           erring controlling officers as per provisions o f the
                                           Public Finance Act (2004)     ,
 PSM
 Union and other political opposition to   Engage the unions and relevant civil society              H
 restrictions on increases inwages, the    stakeholders ina continuing dialogue on the need
 elimination o f some allowances, and      for these policies and the medium to long term
 retrenchment                              development agenda that they support.
                                           GRZnegotiates long term agreements with
                                           unions that trade-off medium to long term
                                           stepped wage increases against implementation
                                           o f a range o f specific public Service reforms.
 Building support for the reforms from                                                               M
 mid level staff and from civil society    Engaging with mid level staff through an

                                                20


                    Risk                               RiskMitigationMeasures                  Risk
                                                                                              Rating
                                                                                               with
                                                                                             Mitigation
and business sectors to ensure             effective change management strategy driven by
sustainability. Solely relying on a        PSRP Steering Committee members within their
strong leader raises questions of          portfolios, inparallel with the union engagement
sustainability .                           strategy.
                                           Engaging with relevant civil society and business
                                           organizations to establish a continuing dialogue
                                           on the need for these policies and the medium to
                                           long term development agenda that they support.
Continued capacity constraints on key      Continuous support for building capacity with         M
technical reform issues.                   GRZ ministries/agencies.
                                           Improving public Service employment
                                           incentives.
Macroeconomic instability when trying      Maintain the wage bill at a sustainable level         M
to implement pay reforms.                  through the MTEF that reduces budget variations.
                                           Improved macroeconomic management through
                                           better public debt management and better
                                           macroeconomic modeling and planning.
RETRENCHMENTS
 Payments made to public servants who      GRZ to provide a retrenchment planacceptable          M
 are not eligible to payments.             to IDA before payments are made. Retrenchment
                                           exercise will also be audited, GRZ to refund all
                                           ineligible payments to IDA

Loadcredit conditionsand covenants

EffectivenessConditions

50.     The followingare the conditions for credit effectiveness:

           a) The Recipient has adopted and submitted the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) in a
                form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
           b) The Recipient has demonstrated the ability to produce financial reports, in form and
                substance satisfactory to the Association.
           c) The Recipient has adopted and submitted a service delivery improvement facility
                operations manual, ina form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
           d) The Recipient appointed to the PEMFA Project Coordination Unit, and the PSM
                Coordination Unit,respectively, a procurement specialist and a financial management
                specialist.

5 1.     The effectiveness deadline i s the date ninety (90) days after the date o f the signing
o f the Financing Agreement between GRZ and IDA.

Conditionsfor Disbursement

52.      The Conditions for disbursement are the following:

                                               21


         PEMFA MOU among the Recipient and Cooperating Partners has been revised and its
         addendum signed among the Recipient and Cooperating Partners participating in the
         arrangements for pooling o f funds for PEMFA Subcomponents.
         PSM MOU has been signed among the Recipient and Cooperating Partners participating in
         the arrangements for the pooling o f funds for PSM Subprograms.
         For Severance Payments, preparation and adoption o f the Retrenchment Plan including a
         social impact assessment for execution o f the planned retrenchments, in a form and
         substance satisfactory to the Association; provided that, the said Retrenchment Plan shall,
         prior to its adoption, have been submitted to the Association in draft form for review and
         approval.

APPRAISAL SUMMARY

Economic and financial analyses

53.      Expected benefits o f operations o f this kind in terms o f fiscal savings, effectiveness and
efficiency will only fully materialize in the medium term and cannot be attributed to a single
action, but a combination o f reforms. However, the positive contribution the Project will have on
state finances and economic conditions can be summarized as follows.

      0  The Project provides a means to better budgeting, and thus potentially better use o f public
         resources. The advantage o f a MTEF i s that it provides a framework within which overall
         budget magnitudes and sector allocations can be planned, enabling governments to escape
         from the incrementalbudgeting followed by actual cash budget at the execution stage with
         substantial discrepancies with initially stated priorities.
      0  It is envisaged that implementation o f a government wide IFMIS system will result in
         significant financial savings for GRZ through more efficient control o f public
         expenditures, although the savings cannot be quantified at the moment.
         There i s a significant pay-off implementing modem computer based payroll management
         systems when the transfer o f data to the new system is accompanied by continuous payroll
         verification exercises and followed by appropriate control mechanisms.

Technical

54.      The objective of the project remained as described inthe draft PAD; this was not changed.
The project development objective i s to make public service delivery institutions and processes
more effective and efficient by enhancing the efficiency and accountability o f the management o f
public expenditures and the public service in line with the GRZ strategies to support poverty
reduction and promote economic growth.

55.      The rationale for supporting a program based approach to public sector reform i s to ensure
that the public service reforms are implemented in a holistic, rather than, a piecemeal manner. The
advantage o f having pooled arrangements with other cooperating partners not only i s in line with
the harmonizationprinciples embraced by IDA but also ensures that GRZ has sufficient resources
to meet the costs o f the reforms.

56.      The Project concept and the design o f the main project components on PEMFA are based
on analytical work included in the PEMFAR diagnostic report, the CPAR and the CFAA reports.
The reports provided the analytical framework o f reforms to be supported by the Project. The

                                                  22


     design o f the components under the PSM component is continuation o f the reforms that were
     supported by IDA and DFIDunder the PSRP.

     Fiduciary

     57.      Program implementation plans have been developed to guide the implementation o f the
     activities under the program taking into account fiduciary standards meeting Bank standards
     especially with respect to procurement, financial management and disbursement procedures.

     FinancialManagement

     58.      The Country Financial Accountability Assessment' (CFAA) on Zambia dated November
     2003 overall conclusion was that "there still remain substantial weaknesses and risks within the
    public financial management system of Zambia.     " `Considerable weaknesses in the areas of budget
     management; financial reporting, audit, and procurement.' "Many of Zambia's public finance
     laws and regulations are not enforced. This has led to a breakdown of administrative systems and
    procedures for the control of expenditure. Audit systems that are in place to detect improprieties
     have been rendered ineffective due to the lack of follow-up and enforcement of the Auditor
     General's recommendations.       Unfortunately, the lack of sanctions may have only served to
     embolden those who have been engaged in improper activities." The challengesfaced by Zambia
     in public expenditure management have been longstanding and will require targeted efforts as well
     as a strong degree of political will to address. The IDA projects in Zambia operate in these poor
     control environment. In the on-going consultations with the World Bank and the CPs, the
     Government has indicated that the implementation o f the Public Expenditure Management and
     Financial Accountability Review (PEMFAR) recommendations i s top priority. In this regard, the
     World Bank with the CPs i s jointly funding the PEMFA component at the MoFNP under the
     PSMP-SP to implement the recommendations o f the PEMFAR.

     59.      The overall responsibility for the Financial Management System (FMS) o f the PSMP-SP
     will lie with the MoFNP chief accountant in the office o f accountant general for the PEMFA
     component and the Chief Accountant Common Accounting Services at Cabinet office for the PSM
     component. The financial management specialist at the Secretariat will work under the chief
     accountant in a functional capacity. Reporting to the respective permanent secretaries at MoFNP
     (PS-FMA) and Cabinet (PS-MDD), the Chief Accountants will ensure that the financial
     management and reporting procedures to be put in place will be acceptable to GRZ, IDA and the
     CPs. It has been agreed by all stakeholders that the PSMP-SP will use the existing Government
     FMS.     This arrangement will allow for the use o f the existing government procedures for
     controlling, accounting and reporting on the use o f all government funds. Adapted financial
     procedures manuals have been developed for PEMFA and PSM to be used in the operations o f the
     project.   The chief accountants will ensure compliance with all the financial management
     requirements o f all stakeholders, including the submission o f quarterly Financial Monitoring
     Reports (FMRs).

     60.      After the determination o f the accounting support staff requirements for the project
     secretariats and for any identified skills gap in the operation o f the FMS, training should be
     provided to all relevant staff in the operation o f the F M S and familiarization with the project
     financial procedures.

'The CFAA was part o f a comprehensivePublic ExpenditureManagementandFinancialAccountability Review
 (PEMFAR) carried out by the Government of the Republic of Zambia with the support of cooperatingpartners
 andthe World Bank inNovember 2003.

                                               23



61.     The project activities will be subject to an internal audit by the office o f the Controller o f
Internal Audit based at MoFNP and Cabinet office. Due to the many implementing agencies for
the project andthe poolingof funds arrangements, the role of internal audit in,maintaining the pre-
audit controls on expenditure as well as assessing the overall adequacy o f the FMS and the
procedures in place will be critical. It i s important that the bottlenecks o f lack of adequate human
andfinancial resources and insufficient follow-up actions on internal audit recommendation by the
controlling officers are addressed. As a beneficiary under PEMFA, the Internal Audit Department
should utilize the funds to build capacity and prepare comprehensive and agreed work programs to
become effective. The Internal Audit Department i s expected to work collaboratively with the
external auditors and the M&E unitso f the project.

62.     An annual external audit will be undertaken by the Office o f the Auditor General on
acceptable terms o f reference to IDA and CPs, and a report submitted not later than 6 months after
the end o f the fiscal year. In Zambia the Constitution gives the responsibility to audit all
government resources to the Auditor General (AG), though inpractice, due to capacity constraints,
private auditors are contracted by the AG.

63.     The overall conclusion o f the assessment is that Zambia's financial management control
environment i s very weak. Nevertheless, specific risks can be mitigated to satisfy the Bank's
OP/BP 10.02 financial management minimum requirements, if the Project Secretariats have the
adequate number o f skilled accounting staff to operate the FMS and strictly enforce the agreed
financial procedures in the PIP.

Procurement

64.     The World Bank Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) for Zambia was
conducted in 2002 with close collaboration o f the government and Cooperating Partners and
formed as one o f the inputsfor the Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability Report.

65.     The CPAR has identified a number o f weaknesses in the country's procurement legal and
regulatory framework, institutional set-up and procedures. This formed the basis for the
procurement reform action plan under PEMFA. A PEMFA Procurement Manual has been drafted
for the PEMFA component to guide its procurement activities. The latter has been reviewed by the
cooperating partners (including the World Bank).         The PEMFA Procurement Manual reflects
relevant provisions o f the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" dated M a y 2004; and it i s in accordance with the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment
o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," dated M a y 2004 respectively.               The procurement
manual has also been made to follow International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures and
methods for selecting consultants (above a specified threshold Le. whose short list i s required to be
prepared on the basis o f international advertisement) contained in the World Bank's "Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated M a y 2004; and "Guidelines: Selection
and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," dated M a y 2004 respectively, For
consistency, GRZ also agreed that the agreed PEMFA procurement procedures will be adopted for
all components o f the PSM component.

66.     To further mitigate the risks identified, the project secretariats, supported by a procurement
service provider, shall execute the procurement function for the PEMFA and PSM supported by
relevant sub-component task mangers.

                                                            24



       67.       A procurement plan derived from the detailed work plans for both PEMFA and PSM has
       been prepared as an implementation tool for project implementation which provides the basis for
       the procurement methods. This plan for the first 18 months o f the Project has been agreed between
       GRZ and the project teadcooperating partners and is included in the PIP. It will also be made
       available in the project's database and in the World Bank's external website. The procurement
       plan will be updated in agreement with the project teadcooperating partners annually or as
       required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in institutional
       capacity.

       Social

       68.       Since the project will fund retrenchments o f civil servants, a social impact assessment will
       be carried out prior to credit effectiveness.

       Environment

       69.       Minor civil works will be carried out under the project. However, these works will not
       have any negative impact to the environment since these will be mostly renovations o f existing
       structures.

       Safeguard policies

      Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                      Yes                   N o
      Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.0 1)                                        [XI                   1- 1
      Natural Habitats (OPh3P 4.04)                                                    [-I                   [XI
      Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                        [-I                   [XI
      Cultural Property (OPN 11-03, being revisedas OP 4.11)                           [-I                   [XI
      Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                            [-I                   [XI
      Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                           [-I                   [XI
      Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                             [-I                   1x1
      Safety o f Dams (OP/BP4.37)                                                      [-I                   [XI
      Projects inDisputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)'                                       [-I                   [XI
      Projects on InternationalWaterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                               [-I                   [XI

        Policy Exceptions and Readiness

         a) The procurement plans for the first 18 months o fthe project for the two components have
              been prepared and reviewed.
         b) The Project ImplementationPlanhas been appraised and found to be acceptable.
         c) This project complies with the applicable Bank policies and requires no exceptions.




* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputed areas

                                                25


                     Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background
          ZAMBIA: Public Service ManagementProgram-Support Project(PSMP-SP)

1.       Economic development has suffered from a worldwide decline in the purchasing power of
Zambia's copper resources. The situation has been hrther aggravated by frequent occurrences o f
drought and the Government's inability to effectively manage its failure to diversify the economy
away from copper, and the HIVIAIDS pandemic all o f which has led to a decline in per capita
income from an all time higho fUS$752 in 1965 to US$35lin2002.

2.       Zambia i s among the most heavily indebted countries in Africa. The decline in copper
prices and the increase in oil prices in the early seventies led to a considerable deterioration in
Zambia's terms o f trade. The authorities believed that the economic decline was just a temporary
phenomenon and that this would reverse. Therefore, it undertook huge external borrowings to
avoid having to restructure the economy. As a consequence, the country became heavily indebted
and interest payments on foreign debt service were higher than public spending on human
development during most o f the 1990s. At the end o f the last decade, it became clear that even
with exceptional growth, Zambia's external debt situation would remain unsustainable and that its
debt service payments would crowd out much needed investment from growth and poverty
alleviation.   Zambia was granted debt relief under the enhanced HIPC framework when the
decision point was reached at the end o f 2000; with a floating completion point was eventually
reached in April 2005. Nonetheless, Zambia continues to depend heavily on donor grants and
concessional loans to finance many o f its expenditure programs and development projects. In2002
alone, 39.5 percent o f central government expenditures were financed through foreign grants and
loans.

3.       Over the past decade, poverty in Zambia has been on the rise and the trend in the
MillenniumDevelopment Goals (MDGs) points in the wrong direction. These adverse economic
developments, exacerbated by weak institutional capacity and ineffective spending, have clearly
affected Zambia's ability to reduce poverty and improve living conditions for its population.
Zambia ranks 163 out of 173 countries in the 2003 United Nations Human Development Report.
In 1998, an estimated 73 percent of the population lived below the official poverty line compared
to 70 percent in the early nineties. The poor lack not only income but also access to basic services
such as education, health, safe water, and infrastructure. The welfare state upon which they once
relied to meet some o f their basic needs failed and has largely disappeared. The public service i s
ineffective in providing the goods and services normally expected o f a government - education,
health, and general administration.

4,       The overall increase in income poverty was accompanied by a sharp deterioration in
indicators o f human welfare-stunting rose by nearly 10 percentage points in the nineties and by the
end o f the decade nearly half o f all children aged five years or younger were stunted. More than 10
percent of children die before reaching their first birthday, and an additional 6 percent do not
survive past the age o f five. Under-five mortality actually rose inthe 1990s. Adult illiteracy i s still
widespread; 40 percent o f women (15 years and older) neither read nor write. The stock o f human
capital has fallen steadily; schooling levels among 40-45 year olds are higher than the 20-25 year
old cohort. Primary enrollments and completionrates fell during the initial period o f the 1990s and
have begun to improve only inthe past couple o f years. These trends must be reversed in order for
Zambia to attain the MDGs. The picture for Zambia is one o f retrogression rather than progress
during the 1990s. In particular, the spread o f HN/AIDS i s a major challenge, not in the least
because this will require a significant change in behavior. Reaching the MDGs would require a

                                               26


significant and sustained injection o f resources and an acceleration o f growth that i s more pro-poor
than inthe past.

5.       Inpart, Zambia's low economic growth and persisting poverty are also attributable to the
existence o f gender gaps between women and men, especially with regard to education, health,
decision making and access to and control over productive resources. Women predominate in the
agricultural sector and do most o f the farm work. Therefore, sector policies and programs need to
recognize and act on gender-differentiated roles in agnculture. Gender inequalities are exacerbated
by the impact o f the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Prevalence rates are muchhigher among young females
than males, however, this pattern reverses with adults, where prevalence rates are higher for males.
Several factors, largely arising from cultural norms, account for the differential prevalence o f HIV
infection among females and males in Zambia. Since women are caregivers and are also the ones
more affected by the pandemic, the productive activities o f women are likely to be reduced
accordingly. This slows down agricultural production and adversely affects food security, as more
women than men are involved inthe production o f food at the household level.

6.       During the 1990s, the Government introduced a number of fundamental changes in
economic policies. A sweeping program o f liberalization and deregulation was implemented,
eliminating most major market distortions. With a few exceptions, price controls were abolished
and the exchange rate and interest rates were liberalized.      Trade reforms simplified the tariff
structure, removed quantitative restrictions, and transformed the Zambian trade regime into one o f
the most open in the sub-region. The dominant role o f the Government in commercial activities
was substantially reduced. To date, about 260 state-owned enterprises have beenprivatized.

7.       The economy i s experiencing recovery with positive increases in real incomes since 1999,
althoughreforms have not brought the increase in well-being that was promised and expected. Per
capita GDP increased by an average o f 1.4 percent annually since 1999. The two main sectors
contributing to this positive development are services and industry on the supply side, while export
and investment are the main source on the demand side o f the economy. Following the 2002
drought, agriculture has contributed significantly to real GDP growth from 2003 onwards,
estimated at 5 percent per annum.

8.       One o f the main constraints holding back a stronger economic expansion i s the unbalanced
macroeconomic environment.         Notwithstanding repeated attempts to reduce the Government
budget deficit to a sustainable level and achieve low and stable inflation during the 1990s,
macroeconomic stabilization remains elusive with inflation running at 19.1 percent and an
estimated central Government budget deficit at over 5 percent o f GDP in 2003. With real interest
rates at well over 15 percent, the current policy mix can be characterized by monetary policy
overcompensating for loose, unpredictable, and not very effective fiscal policy. The level o f
interest rates obviously hampers expansion o f investment and affordable access to credit for
working capital, puttingthe current recovery and diversification away from copper injeopardy.

9.       Since the end o f one-party rule in 1991, Zambia has conducted three peaceful presidential
and parliamentary elections. It now has several vocal opposition parties, which are represented in
Parliament.   It has an assortment o f active non-governmental organizations and civil society
groups. The media is dominated by the two state-owned dailies, one independent daily and the
Zambia National Broadcasting Corporation, but there are other independent newspapers and radio
stations. One o f the things that Zambia can be proud o f i s that it has, since independence in 1964,
avoided civil strife.

                                                     27


     10.      Zambia's Government continues to struggle with accountability for public resources and
     inability to effectively deliver services. The absence o f a credible budget, caused by a lack o f
     effective and realistic budget preparation has follow-on implications for budget execution,
     procurement, and ultimately for service delivery. Spending on primary education clearly illustrates
     this point as only between one-sixthand one-third of total fundingavailable eventually reaches the
     schools inthe form o f cash.

     11,      The Kauffman, Kraay and Mastruzzi Governance indicators back GRZ's focus on the
     particular challenges being addressed under this project. 2Kaufmann, Kraay and Mastruzzi present
     newly updated estimates o f six identified areas o f governance covering 209 countries and territories
     for five time periods (1996, 1998, 2000, 2002 and 2004).             The authors assigned individual
     measures o f governance to categories capturing key dimensions o f governance and used an
     unobserved component model to construct six aggregate governance indicators in each o f the four
     periods for each country. The six indicators are: (i)  voice and accountability; (ii)political stability;
     (iii)Government effectiveness; (iv) regulatory quality; (v) rule of law; and (vi) control of
     corruption. The indicators show that Zambia i s performing above the sub Saharan average on four
     o f the indicators but i s doing badly on two indicators, i.e., Government effectiveness and control o f
     corruption.

     12.       Below i s a bar chart depicting the percentile ranking for the Zambia in 2004, with regional
     (sub-Saharan Africa) average comparator.




Kaufmann, Daniel, Kraay, Aart and Mastruzzi, Massimo, "Governance Matters IV: Governance Indicators for
1996-2004" (May 2005).

                                                                                             28


                                                                                                      ZAMBIA (2004)
                                                                                                      I



     Voice and Accountability




     Political Stability




     Governnent Effectiveness




     Regulatory Quality




     Rule of Lau




     Control of Corruption



                                                             0                                       25                                                           100
                                                                                            Conparison uith regional average (Subsaharan Africa) Ilouer bar)
                                                                                    Country's Percentile Rank (0-100)
      Source: 0. KauCmannr A.                 Kraavz and H.         Hastruzzi 2005: Gouernance Hatters IV:               Governance Indicators f o r 1996-2004
      I h t t p : / ~ . ~ r I d b a n k . ~ r g ~ i / g ~ u ~ m a n c e / p u b ~ / g ~ u r m t t e r + 4 . h t m l )


13.         In another popular move, the Government has continued to signal that it will not press
ahead with the privatization o f the remaining parastatals as planned, but reduce their fiscal pressure
and improve their corporate governance structure by pursuing a strategy o f commercialization.
Now, with the benefit o f lessons o f experience and against the backdrop o f changes in the global
economy, the Government i s recalibratingits approach for several large state-owned utilities.

14.         A number o f measures adopted by the Government have been disputed by opposition
parties, prominent sections o f civil society, and the labor unions. The measures in question include
the appointment o f the Constitution Review Commission and the attempt to renegotiate the 2003
collective agreement with the public service unions given that the initial increases in personal
emoluments led to a budget overrun that prohibited Zambia from entering into a new IMF Poverty
Reduction Growth Facility (PRGF) agreement in2003.

15.         The prospects for rapid and sustained economic growth o f Zambia's economy will depend
in the short run on the Government's ability to successfully rebalance and regain control over its
macroeconomic policies, in particular fiscal policy, while the medium-term prospects critically
depend on the extent, mix, and pace o f structural reforms. An important and critical step was to
remain on track with the IMF PRGF program and attain HIPC completion, both o f which have
been achieved.                       Without HIPC completion, Zambia's external position would have become
extremely fragile and could have led to an economic implosion and accumulation o f external
arrears.        However, the attainment o f the HIPC completion point does not cure all economic
challenges that GRZ faces.

                                              29


16.      Inthe medium term, improvement of the credibility of the public service as a whole is of
critical importance. Improving budget management processes, including those related to service
delivery, together with an efficient and well-motivated public service are important cornerstones o f
such a structural reform program. This program, combined with additional measures to improve
Zambia's business environment and delivery o f core infrastructure related services, could allow
GDP growth rates to be maintained at an average 3.5-4.5 percent per annum, leading to higher
GDP per capita and a sustainable improvement inthe macro environment.

17.      Zambia i s benefiting from the enhanced HIPC debt initiative, having reached its HIPC
decision point in December 2000 at which time interim debt relief became available. Under the
criteria o f the enhanced HIPC framework, Zambia received a reduction o f its external debt due and
outstanding o f 62.6 percent in NFV terms as o f December 31, 1999, which became irreversible at
the completion point inJune 2005.

18.      Zambia's long-term external debt outlook i s considered in a more positive light after HIPC
completion as it i s set against a macroeconomic framework based upon the IMF PRGF, elaborated
within the medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF) prepared for the 2005 budget. External
debt service after full delivery o f HIPC and additional bilateral relief i s expected to remain well
below 10 percent o f exports after 2004. The debt service-to-export ratio in 2004 i s estimated at 22
percent (mainly because o f large repayments to the IMF before falling sharply to 5 percent in
2005). Zambia i s also one o f the 18 countries that are being considered for 100% write off o f
multilateral debt. The details of what constitutes the 100% write o f f are still being considered.

                                                    30


             Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby IDA and/or other Agencies
               ZAMBIA: Public Service ManagementProgram-Support Project(PSMP-SP)


                                                                                  Ratings                    I
    Sector Issue                      Project                         (Bank-financedprojects only)
 Completed Projects  (Reviewed by OED inthe last 4 years)                       OED Ratings

                                                                0utcome          Sustainability   IDImpact
IWorld Bank         IEnterpriseDevelopment                    I Satisfactory I      Likely      I Substantial I
I              ,    IEnvironmental Support Program            IUnsatisfactory  1   Unlikely      1 Modest     1
                     Economic Recovery & Investment             Moderately          Likely         Modest
                     Promotion                                 Unsatisfactory

                     2"dEconomic & Social Adjustment Credit    Unsatisfactory      Unlikely         Modest

                     Public Service Reform & Export             Moderately         Unlikely         Modest
                     Promotion Credit                          Unsatisfactory

                     Health Sector Support Project             Unsatisfactory      Unlikely         Modest

                     Fiscal Sustainability Credit               Moderately         Unlikely         Modest
                                                                Satisfactory

                     Urban Restructuring & Water                Moderately         Unlikely         Modest
                                                                Satisfactory

                     Agriculture Sector Investment             Unsatisfactory      Unlikely         Modest

                                                                            Latest Supervision
                                                                                (PSR) Ratings

   Recently Closed                                             Implementation             Development
      Projects                                                   Progress(IP)            Objective (DO)

 World Bank          Railroad Restructuring (closed 6/30/2005)         S
7                                                                                              S

                    IPSCAP (closed 06/30/2005)                                                 S

                     Emergency Drought Recovery (closed                S                       S
                     06/30/2005)

                     ERIPTA (closed 09/30/05)                          S                       S

                     National Roads (closed 03/31/05)                  S                       S

                                                     31



                                                                           Latest Supervision
                                                                             (PSR) Ratings

                                                               Implementation          Development
Ongoing projects                                                Progress (IP)         Objective (DO)

World Bank           Malaria Booster Project (approved
                     11/15/2005)

                     Power Rehabilitation                           M S                     M S

                     Basic EducationSector Inv.Program              MU                      M S


                  I  SEED                                           MU                      Mu

                     Road Rehabilitation                             S                       S


                  IMine Township Service Project
                    1SEED Biodiversity                       II      S                      M S


                                                                    MU                      MU

                     Social Investment Fund                  I       S                       S

~                                                                                                       ~




                     RegionalTrade Project                           S                       S

                     TEVET                                          MU                      M S

                     HIViAIDS                                        S                       S

                     Copperbelt Environment                         M S                     M S

Other development

EU                  I Support to PEMFA                              n.a.                    n.a.
DFID                  Support to PEMFA                              n.a.                    n.a.
                      Payroll Management
                      Finance Sector Development Plan
Ireland               Support to Parliamentary Reform                n.a.                   n.a.

Sweden                Support to PEMFA                               n.a.                    n.a.
                                                                                                           I

                      Support to the Office o f the Auditor

                                                                     n.a.         I          n.a.          I

                                                      32


                                     Annex 3: ResultsFramework andMonitoring
                  ZAMBIA: Public Service Management Program              -Support  Project (PSMP-SP)


     Relevant PRSPObjective              Selected PRSPImpact and             Selected PRSPVerification
                                                  Indicators                           Indicators
1. T o promote good governance in 1. T o ensure efficient, equitable,      1. Financialdiscipline o f
    the management o f private and       and transparent management o f       controlling officers on variation
    public affairs as a mechanism o f    public resources                     o f budgeted expenditure.
    poverty reduction.                                                     2. Public Service Commission to
                                                                              appoint all public servants.
                                                                           3, Monetization o f public service
                                                                              benefits
     Relevant CAS Objective             CAS Longer Term Outcomes           Relevant CAS ProgressIndicators
1. Strategic Priority 3: improving    1. A more transparent and            PEMFA Component
    the efficiency and effectiveness     accountable public service.       1. Use o f IFMIS by line ministries
    o f the management o f the public 2. A productive and efficient           for budget execution and
    service.                             public service                       reporting.
                                                                           2. Effective recourse mechanism
                                                                              developed for fair treatment o f
                                                                              bidders' complaints.
                                                                           3. Increasednumber o f PSUs
                                                                              certifiedto fully carry out the
                                                                              procurement fbnction.
                                                                           4. Revised procurement legislation
                                                                              adopted.
                                                                           5. Establishment o f a procurement
                                                                              policy and regulatory authority.
                                                                           PSM Component
                                                                           6. Number o f ministries that have
                                                                              strategic plans for the delivery
                                                                              o f services increased.
                                                                           7. Proportion o f staff in service
                                                                              delivery functions increased.
                PDO                          OutcomeIndicators                Use of ResultsInformation
To improve the quality o f public     1. GRZPEMframework
expenditure management and public        characterized by full MTEF        1. YR1-YR3: Results to be usedtc
service effectiveness in Zambia as a     structure adopted inall              flag that achievement o f PDO i z
means to achieve:                        ministries, departments and          on track
1. Economic growth and poverty           institutions and major            2. YR3: Poor progress in
    reduction;                           parastatals                          achieving indicators will
2. A more efficient public service;   2. MTEF is basedon a central            suggest that the project design
    and                                  government wide IFMIS                and implementation strategy
3.  the adoption o f direct budgetary 3. Strategic planning, business         may need to be revised
    support as the principal             planning and performance
    mechanism for development aid        planning hierarchy and            3. YR 4: Ifproject progress in
    inZambia.                            processes aligned with and           achieving indicators is
                                         linked to the MTEFprocess            satisfactory project
                                      4. Ratio o f total public service       desigdredesign was effective. I
                                         numbers to public service            not, urgent external review
                                         salaries increases by at least 15    required to reorient project.
                                         percent.                          4. Year 5: Progress measured and
                                                                              results fed into A P L phase three
                                                                              o f project design

                                                         33



       Intermediate Resultsby                  ResultsIndicators                  Use of OutcomeMonitoring
    Component & Subcomponent
                                             Component 1: PEMFA
                                       1. Quality o f public expenditure      Years 1-3: High expenditure
 Public ExpenditureManagement              management improves in             variances flag that budget discipline
 and Financial Accountability              accordance with subcomponent       needs to be strengthened
 (PEMFA)                                   outputs                            Years 3 to 5: Decreasing variances
                                                                              indicate budget discipline is
 T o significantly improve the quality                                        strengthening.
 o f public expenditure management                                            [ncreasinglunchanging variances
 inZambia.                                                                    indicate the need to review and
                                                                              restructure the project.
                                                                              Year 5: Continued high variances
                                                                              implyneed for radicalreform o f
                                                                              Dversight under Phase 3
 Subcomponent1.1Commitment             1.1 Number o f provinces, districts     D   Quarterly reports to PEMFA
 Control and Financial Management          and spending agencies inwhich           Steering Committee
 System (FMS)                              F M S i s implemented                   Quarterly reports to Donor Joint
                                       1.2 F M S retooled to take into             Technical Working Group
 Full implementation of FMS in all         account the ABB budgeting               Quarterly project supervision
 provinces, districts and spending     1.3 Commitment control system               missions
 agencies by thefinal year of the          hlly automated                          World Bank Public Financial
 project.                                                                          Management
                                                                                   World Bank Fiduciary Reviews

 Subcomponent 1.2                      1. IFMIS piloted infive key
 IntegratedFinancialManagement             ministries
 Information Systems (IFMIS)           2.  IFMIS piloted intwo provinces
                                       3.  Capacity buildingo f staff o f the
 IFMISfully implemented in at least        Government's Information                       Same as above
 five key ministries andpiloted in at      Technology Unit,Central
 least twoprovincial agencies by the       Computer Services Department
 final year of theproject.                 (CCSD) to support IFMIS after
                                           implementation without resort
                                           to international service
                                           providers
 Subcomponent1.3                       1. Percentage o f districts and
 Reformed Budget Preparation and           spending agencies inwhich
 Budget Execution                          ABB is implemented
                                       2.  Percentage of districts and
                                           spending agencies inwhich                      Same as above
                                           MTEF is implemented
 Full implementation of ABB to all     3.  Budget format re-designed to be
 districts and spending agencies           user friendly and easier to
                                           understand by the public and
                                           csos
 Subcomponent 1.4                      1. MoFNP i s maintaining a
 Improved Fiscal Policy and                comprehensive, up-to-date and
 Economic Planning                         correct database o f macro-
                                           economic indicators (November
 A multi-year planningframework            1, 2006).                                       Same as above
  implementation of a macro-           2.  MoFNP i s consulting                                 plus
 economic model                            stakeholders at least biannually      for consultation with community

I                                          on the performance o f the              stakeholders on development

                                                   34


                                      country's development                   programperformance
                                      programs under the National
                                      Development Plan (December
                                      30,2006).
                                   3. MoFNP i s using socio-
                                      economic models to analyze,
                                      simulate and forecast the effects
                                      o f government policies (June
                                      30. 2009).
Subcomponent1.5                    1. Development and                    1  Quarterly reports to PEMFA
ImprovedDebtManagement                implementation o f a Public Debt      Steering Committee
                                      Management Strategy (June 30,       D Quarterly Reports to Donor
                                      2007).                                Joint Technical Working Group
                                   2. Development o f a Public Debt         Quarterly project supervision
                                      Market strategy (June 30,             missions
Development and implementation of     2008).                              B World Bank Public Financial
a Domestic Debt Management         3. Development o f a centralized         Management
Policy                                database o f domestic and             World Bank Fiduciary Reviews
                                      external debt inMoFNP (June
                                      30, 2008).
Subcomponent1.6                    1. CAAT standards, procedures,
ImprovedInternal Audit                manuals and other
                                      documentation produced and
                                      distributed (December 31,
                                      2006).                                       Same as above
                                   2. Revisedannual audit work-
Enhanced internal audit capacity      plans based on CAAT
developed through the                 developed and implementedin
implementation of computer aided      line with CAAT roll-out from
audit techniques(CAA gand             January 2007 - December 2008
associated audit enhancements      3. 90% of internal audit reports
across thepublic service              produced within 120 days o f
                                      completion o f audit (June 30,
                                      2009).
Subcomponent1.7                       Informationon donor inflows
Better External Finance               produced by an aid coordination
Co-ordination                         databasedeveloped and
                                      implemented(June 30, 2006),
Institutional arrangements and        has <lo% deviation from donor                Same as above
mechanisms implemented that better    funding records
link the Department of Economic       Capacity building strategies
and Technical Cooperation (ETC) to    developed and implemented in
the budget ofice and donors           all ministries, departments and
                                      institutions managing foreign
                                       aid (June 30,2007).
                                      All externalresources
                                       accurately integrated into
                                      MTEFandAnnual Budgets by -     -
                                       FY200718 budget.
Subcomponent1.8                    1. RevisedFinance Act and
Consistent, Modernized and             regulations presented to Cabinet
Harmonized Legal Framework for         for approval (June 30,2007).
Public Expenditure Management      2.  Formal consultative
                                       mechanisms, jointly coordinated             Same as above
                                       by the Zambia Institute o f
                                       Chartered Accountants and civil

                                                        35


                                           society, agreed among
~~Parliamentaiy approval and
       ~




  implementation of revised Finance        government and community and
  Act and revisedfinancial regulations     business sector stakeholders for
  in line with PEMFA reforms               participatory processes and
                                           procedures for financial
                                           legislative drafting,
                                           implemented (December 31,
                                           2007).
                                       3.  All public finance related
                                           legislation harmonized to draft
                                           stage and submitted to Cabinet
                                           Office for approval (30 June

  Subcomponent 1.9
  StrengthenedExternal Audit (Office   1. At least 9 professional audit
  of the Auditor General - OAG             staff are based inprovincial
                                           audit offices by end o f 2006
                                           rising to 18 by end o f 2008,       Same as above
                                           with a minimumo f one auditor
  Development of the capacity of           per provincial office.
   OAG to substantially execute the    2.  VFM auditinghas increased
  accountabiliiy role required of          within the OAG annual audit
  Supreme Audit Institutions as called     plan by 20% (June 30, 2007).
  for in Article 26 of the Lima        3 . A new code o fethics and audit
  Declaration.                             standards, audit manual and
                                           guidelines implementedin OAG
                                           to reflect organizational,
                                           capacity and professional
                                           developments (June 30, 2008).
  Component 1.10                       1. All committee work i s
  Enhancing Parliamentary Oversight        automated.
                                       2.  Feedback mechanisms o n
  More eflective and greater               budget session and
  participation by parliamentarians in     parliamentary account               Same as above
  the budget, preparation and              Committee sessions developed
  execution process                        and implemented.
                                       3.  A three year capacity building
                                           plan designed and implemented
                                           for chairmen, members o f all
                                           parliamentary committees and
                                           members o f parliament to
                                           enhance their procedural,
                                           legislative knowledge and
                                           public financial management
                                           knowledge and skills and sector
                                           specific knowledge (March 30,
                                           2006).
   Subcomponent 1.11                   1. All ministries, departments and
  Accountancy Training and                 institutions conduct
  Regulation                               sensitization workshops on the
                                           provisions of the Accountants
                                           Act and the Code o f Conduct        Same as above
                                           (December 3 1,2006).
                                       2.  Implementation o f a five year
                                           capacity building program for
                                           all GRZ Accountants (30 June

                                                      36


Sensitization of all GRZ accountants     2006).
in theprovisions of the Accounts Act 3 . The National Accounting
and the Code of Conduct                  Technicianqualification revised
                                         to reflect the Accounts Act and
                                         Code of Conduct and
                                         implementedinthe 2008
                                         academic year (January 31,
                                         2007).
Subcomponent 1.12                    ' RevisedProcurementActto
Public ProcurementReform                 make ZNTB a more effective
                                         and transparent regulatory and
                                         oversightbody and submittedto
                                         Cabinet for approval (June
Transformation of the Zambia             2006).
National Tender Board into a more        90% of PSUS (80 PSUS
effective and transparent regulatory     including the existing ones)
and oversight bodyfor government        established, certified and
procurement                              operationalto highestrating in
                                         all MPSAs including all line
                                         ministries. Targets: 2005: 30
                                         PSUs certified; 2006:45 ;2007:
                                         60; 2008: 80); (December31,
                                        2008),
                                        The IFMIS systemrolledout to
                                         spendingagencies and all
                                        procurementsubsequently
                                         monitoredby ZNTB through the
                                         system(December 31, 2009).
Subcomponent 1.13                    1. Successful implementation of             As above plus
PEMFA Secretariat                        activities under the PEMFA        Support to any restructuring
                                         component.                                 exercises
Efficient and effective management                                       Implementation CompletionReport
of the PEMFA component

                                                        37



      IntermediateResults by                    Results Indicators            Use of Outcome Monitoring
   Component & Subcomponent

Component 2: Public Service                                                Years 1to 3: Unstable wage bill
Management                             management improves inaccordance    signals need to improve institutional
                                       with subcomponent outputs           arrangement for management o f the
Staff are motivated to carry out their                                     wage bill and rightsizingstrategies
responsibilities as laid out interms
and conditions.                                                            Year 3 and 4: Highvacancy rates
                                                                           coupled with high turnover flags
                                                                           need to revisit incentive regime.
                                                                           Low increases in education and
                                                                           health staff numbers indicates need
                                                                           to address recruitment inthese
                                                                           sectors.

                                                                           Year 5: Success with >85%
                                                                           indicators means that advances can
                                                                           be made in extending current and
                                                                           new public service management
                                                                           reforms inPhase 3
Subcomponent 2.1                       'I. Staffestablishments atservice       Quarterly reports to office o f
Rightsizing                                delivery outlets defined and        DSC-FED
                                           implemented (December 2006).        Quarterly Reports to Donor
All Government ministries and          2.  Revised staffing levels at          Joint Technical Working Group
institutions have staffing                 Provincial and District level       Quarterly project supervision
complements which are appropriate          implemented.                        missions
to their agreed mandates and           3.  HIV/AIDS strategy developed         World Bank Public Financial
affordable in relation to their MTEF       for the public service and          Management
ceilings                                   implementation commenced
                                           (December 2006).                    World Bank Fiduciary Reviews

                                       4.  Gender equity strategy for the
                                          Public Service implemented.
                                       5. Non-Core functions contracted
                                           out (December 2010).
                                       6. Backlog o f terminal benefits
                                          paid (December 2007).
                                       7.  Study on the Impact o f
                                          Downsizing completed
                                           (December 2008).
                                       8.  Social protection strategy
                                           developed and implemented.
                                       9. Re-entry to the service for
                                           separated staff abolished.
Subcomponent 2.2                       1. Comprehensive long term
Pay Reform                                Public Service pay policy
                                          developed and approved by                       As above
A comprehensive, affordable pay           Cabinet (March, 2007).
policy designed and implementation     2. Improved payroll planning and
commenced.                                budgeting processes, including
                                          provision for payroll costs
                                          within the MTEF developed
                                          (December 2007).
                                       3. Pay policy short-term and

                                                        38


      IntermediateResultsby                     ResultsIndicators             Use of Outcome Monitoring
  Component & Subcomponent
                                          mediumterm measures
                                          implemented between April
                                          2007 -January 2008, including
                                          job evaluations and revised pay
                                          structures
                                       4. Restructuring and
                                          recapitalization o f PSPF
                                          completed (December, 2007).
Subcomponent2.3                        1. Revised performance
Service Delivery Improvement              management strategy
                                          implemented (January 2008).                   As above
AI1 Government ministries and          2. Revised performance
institutions are managing                 improvement facility
performance eflectively within an         implemented (October 2006).
agreedflamework of planned
objectives and standards, and are
taking action to improve their
capacity to deliver better services.

Subcomponent2.4                        ' Rigorous androbustdata
Payroll Management and                    management policies and
Establishment Control                     practices developed,                          As above
                                          implemented and used
Payroll and establishment effectively     according to schedule for all
managed and controlled at the             establishment management and
central line ministry andprovincial       control systems at ministrylevel
levels through integrated computer-       (June 30, 2006).
based systems.                            Provincial roll out plan for
                                          PMEC developed, approved and
                                          included in2008 FY budget
                                          PMEC system rolled out to all
                                          provinces and districts (June 30,
                                          2010).
                                          Integrationo f PMEC and
                                          IFMIS system at the central and
                                          provincial levels operational
                                          (December 2010).

Subcomponent2.5                        1. Successfulimplementationof                  As above plus
P S M Secretariat                         activities under the P S M            Support to any restructuring
                                          component                                      exercises
Eficient and eflective management                                           ImplementationCompletion Report
of the PMS component

                                       Results Indicators                       Use of Outcome Monitoring
~
IntermediateResultsby
Component & Subcomponent
                                     ( ,mponent 3: RETRENCHMEN'
Subcomponent3.1                        1, All retrenched staff removed      1. Report o f retrenchment exercise
Payment o f Severance Packages to         from payroll by the end o f the       from Cabinet Office and
retrenchedpublic servants                 project.                              independent audit report.

              2 4P




1      I




              Y




 I-     IL

L
e
ii
E
C
r
E
I


I
r

ri
L

       e,

     3 4




       e,

     3 4




             I




3
d

 -
e 5
0 0 c
0 oe!
d < 8

i



i
E
I
r,
E
ii
E
c
r,
E
I


!
r,


r
i
Y

       2% 0$
  ?    I
2 4




       I

rI




L

3


                                                       48



                                        Annex 4: Detailed Project Description
                 ZAMBIA: Public Service ManagementProgram-Support Project(PSMP-SP)


        1.       The Public Sector Management Program Support Project (PSMP-SP) is the second phase
        o f a 13 year APL approved by the Board on March 28,2000 which became effective on October 3,
        2000. The PSCAP Project Document lays out the basic parameters for all three phases of the APL.
        The first phase, the Public Sector Capacity BuildingProject (PSCAP) concluded inJune 2005. The
        performance triggers for Phase 2 o f the APL which have been met or substantially met include pay
        reforms in the senior and technical cadres, establishment and payroll controls, and introduction o f
        the MTEF and the production o f audited annual financial statements for selected ministries. The
        proposed second operation will continue to support the CAS Strategic Priority 3: improving the
        efficiency and effectiveness o f the management o f the public service. The PSMP-SP supports the
        emphasis in the PRSP on the importance o f public service management capacity in the leadership
        and management o f PRSP programs and creating a conducive environment for other actors; the
        private sector, NGOs, CBOs and beneficiaries.

        2.       PSCAP was mainly fundedby the World Bank and thus associated mainly with IDA. With
        the move to implement the principles o f the Harmonization in Practice6 which focus on ensuring
        aid effectiveness by supporting government led programs rather than individual projects and in
        order to address the concerns raised by other development partners that the support to GRZ's
        priorities would no longer be met solely by the World Bank, GRZ agreed to change the name. As
        the PSMP is a US$100.19 million program and IDA is contributing US$30 million, the input by
        IDA will support this larger program, hence the change o f name o f IDA's support to Public Sector
        Management Program-Support Project (PSMP-SP).

        3.       The PSMP-SP is proposed as IDA's contribution to a harmonized approach to public
        service reforms in Zambia in which IDA i s partneringthrough a SWAP arrangement with other
        donors which fund the Public Service Reform Program (PSRP). These donors are the United
        Kingdom, European Union (EU), Gemany, Norway, Denmark, Finland, Ireland, the Netherlands,
        Sweden and UNDP. The IMF will participate in the program by providing TA as and when
        needed. GRZ has indicated that it prefers SWAP arrangements to individual donor project support.

        4.       The preparation of this program has been informed by a number of studies including the
        GRZiWorld Bank PEMFA diagnostic report, a complementary study by Oxford Policy
        Management completed for DFID, the GRZ Public Service Reform Priorities Report and a report
        o f the multi-donor appraisal teams which included IDA. An overview o f the program components
        and subcomponents is provided below.




Zambia and its development partnerssigned the Wider HarmonizationinPracticeMemorandumof Understanding(MoU).
Under the MoU the signatories agreed to commondefinedprinciples, practices andprocedures and agreed a Matrix of
Activities: Programming,FinancialManagement, HumanResourcesand Housekeeping.

                                                           49



                                                         Box 4.1
                          ZAMBIA: Public Sector ManagementProgram Support Project
                                                                           -
                                      Component and Subcomponent Overview
 (Note: The PEMFA and PSM components are funded by several CooperatingPartnersfrom one of two pooled
                          funds -one for each component    - ofwhich  Bank funds are a part.
The Retrenchment Component is Solely financed by the Bank and is funded through a sepal `e special account)

  Component1:Public ExpenditureManagementand Financial Accountability (PEMFA)                   implementing
                                                                                                lgency
Subcomponent 1.1 Commitment Control System (CCS) and Financial Management System
                      -                                                                         Ministryof
(FMS) (US$1.30 million)                                                                         3nance and
Objective: More effectivefinancial management and commitment control.                           Vational Planning
Expected Results: Fully automatedcommitment control system; retooledFinancialManagement
System (FMS) to take into account the ABB budgeting process; full implementationof FMS in       4ccountant
all provinces,districtsand spendingagencies.                                                    3eneral's Office

Subcomponent 1.2 - Integrated Financial Management Information Systems (IFMIS)                  Ministryof
(US$26.49million)                                                                               Financeand
Objective: To improve public expenditure management through an integrated and automated         UationalPlanning
financial management system in order to ensure efficient and effectiveuse of public resources.
Expected Results: IFMIS piloted in five ministriesthen roiled-outto all ministries,provincesand Accountant
spending agencies before being integrated with the systems of other institutions such as local  General's Office
authorities, grant-aided institutionsand parastatals; implementationof a government wide area
network; well conceptualized, documented and a comprehensive ICT strategy; trained cadre of
IT and FMS experts in GRZ; restructuringand trainingof staff of the Government's Information
Technology Unit, Central Computer Services Department (CCSD) to support IFMIS after
implementation.
Subcomponent 1.3 ImprovedFiscal Policyand Economic Planning(US$2.05 million)
                     -                                                                          Ministry of
Objective: To attain a policy-based budgetary process that is able to facilitate the effective Financeand
mobilization and allocation of resources in a systematic, effective, efficient and predictable NationalPlanning
manner.
Expected Results: A multi year planningframework and a macro-economicmodel in place.            Planning
                                                                                                Department
Subcomponent 1.4 ReformedBudget Preparationand Budget Execution(USS0.74million)
                     -                                                                          Ministry of
Objective: To establish a credible budgeting process and a transparent and clear presentation ofFinanceand
the budget document; to implementthe budget in a more efficient and predictable fashion, with NationalPlanning
reducedvariance betweenbudgetand actual spending.
Expected Results Full implementation of ABB to all districts and spending agencies; full        Budget Office
implementation of MTEF: re-designed budget format that is ,user friendly and easier to
understandAnnual PublicExpenditureReviews.
Subcomponent 1.5 ImprovedDebt Management (US$O.S3 million)
                     -                                                                          Ministry of
Objective: To manage Zambia's debt, both domestic and external, to sustainable levels and Financeand
effectivelymanage government investments.                                                       NationalPlanning
Expected Results: Development and implementation o f a comprehensive Domestic Debt
Management Policy: development and implementation of a debt market policy; centralized data Investment and
base of domestic and internationaldebt; revisedLoan and Guarantees Act.                          Debt Department
Subcomaonent 1.6 ImprovedInternalAudit (USS3.51 million)
                     -                                                                           Ministry of
Object&     To strengthen internal controls for improved public expenditure management and Financeand
financial accountability.                                                                        NationalPlanning
Expected Results: Computer Aided Audit Techniques (CAATs) will be fully adopted and
implemented; Internal Audit Department (IAD) will be directly funded by the budget office;       Controllerof
improved Annual audit work-plans developed; institutional arrangements that link IAD to the InternalAudit
Office ofthe Auditor General.

                                                            50



                                                         Box 4.1
                           ZAMBIA: PublicSector ManagementProgram- Support Project
                                        Component and SubcomponentOverview
   (Note: The PEMFA and PSM components are funded by severalCooperatingPartnersfrom one of two pooled
                            funds - one for each component of which Bank funds are a part.
                                                              -
  The RetrenchmentComponent is Solely financed by the Bank and is funded through a sepi ate special account)
  Component 1:Public Expenditure Managementand FinancialAccountability(PEMFA)                     lmplementing
                                                                                                  3ffice

  Subcomponent 1.7 - Better External Finance Co-ordination (VSS0.50 million)                      Ministry of Finance
  Objecrive: To improve overall budgetary planning and co-ordination of external financing by     mdNational
  integrating donor partner flows into the budget.                                                Planning
 Erpecred Resulrs:        Aid coordination database developed and implemented; reporting
  mechanisms of inflows designed and implemented; institutional arrangements that better link     ExternalTechnical
  the Department of Economic and Technical Cooperation(ETC) to the budget office.                 Zooperation
                                                                                                  3epartment
  Subcomponent 1.8 Consistent Legal Framework for Public ExpenditureManagement
                       -                                                                          Ministry of Justice
   (USSI.OO million)
  Objectives: To have a consistent and harmonizedlegal framework to supporttransparencyand
   accountability in the public sector.
  Expecred Results: Parliamentary approval of revised Finance Act and revised financial
  regulations in line with PEMFA reforms.
  Subcomponent 1.9        - Strengthened External Audit (Office of the Auditor General)           Office of the Auditor
  (USS7.59million)                                                                                General
  Objective: To enhance the external auditing function for improved accountability and
 transparency in the useof public resources.
  Expected Results: A legally independent,effective and efficient OAG.
  Component 1.10 - EnhancingParliamentaryOversight (USS1.90million)                               Parliament
  Objecrive: To develop the capacity of Parliament to play its oversight role in public resources
 management in order to promote the culture of transparencyand accountability.
  E.rpecred Resulrs: More effective and greater participation by parliamentarians in the budget,
  preparationand execution process; greater participation of the public in monitoring the budget.


  Subcomponent 1.1 1 - AccountancyTraining and Regulation (USSI.92 million)                       Zambia Institute of
  Objecrive: To strengthen the accountancyprofessionand to provide effective regulatory           Chartered
  ser\ices in order to promotehigh professional and ethical standards in the accountancy          Accountants
  profession.
  Expected Results: Revision of the National Accounting Technician qualification; sensitization
  of all GRZ accountants in the provisions of the Accounts Act and the Code of Conduct;
  implementation of a Continuous Development Program for Accountants; One Stop Resource
  Centreconstructedand furbished.
' Subcomponent 1.12 - Public ProcurementReform (USS8.83 million)                                  Zambia National
  Objective: To promoteand institutionalize a transparent, accountableand efficient public        Tender Board
  procurementsystem in order to improve expenditure management.
, Expected Resulrs: Revised Procurement Act; transformation of the Zambia National Tender
! Board into a more effective and transparent regulatory and oversight body; decentralization of
 the procurement functions; establishment o f PSU's in all ministries and spending agencies;
  establishmentof a professionalprocurementcadre.
' Subcomponent 1.13 - PEMFA Secretariat (L'S$I 1.00 million)                                      Ministry of Finance
  Objecrives: Coordinate, manage and provide support to the implementing units of the PEMFA
  component so that they effectively achieve the planned results; monitor, evaluate and report to PermanentSecretary
  GRZ and donors on componentprogressand achievements.                                            -Financial
 E.rpected Resulrs: Efficient and effective management of the component; successful               Management and
  implementationof activities under the PEMFA component.                                          Accounting

                                                          51




                         ZAMBIA: PublicSector ManagementProgram- Support Project
                                                       Box 4.1

                                      Component and Subcomponent Overview
 (Note: The PEMFA and PSM components are funded by several CooperatingPartnersfrom one of two pooled
                         funds - one for each component    - ofwhich  Bankfunds are a part.
The Retrenchment Componentis Solely financed by the Bank and is funded through separate special account)
Component2: Public Service Management(PSM)                                              ImplementingOffice

Subcomponent 2.1 - Rightsizing(USs1.53 million)                                         Cabinet Office
Objective: To have staffing complementswhich are appropriate to their agreedmandates
and affordable in relation to their MTEF ceilings through sustainable restructuring Management Development
necessaryto rationalizethe functions of all Government ministriesand institutions.      Division
Expected Results: A public service at national and sub national levels that has a
sustainable, efficient and effective establishment that meets the government's service
deliverygoals; a sustainablesocial safetynet programin place.
Subcomponent 2.2 - Pay Reform(US$1.65 million)                                          Cabinet Office
Objectives:    To attract, motivate and retain qualified and competent technical,
professional and managerial personnel; to match employee remuneration to job Public Service
performance and to enhance Public Service salaries and conditions of service (consistent Management Division
with the resource envelope) in order to boost morale and increase productivity and
reinforcethe focus on improvedservicedelivery.
Expected Results: A sustainableand effectivepay structure in place; a comprehensivepay
policy in place; performancerelatedpay structurein place.
Subcomponent 2.3 - Service Delivery Improvement (US$l1.28 million)                       CabinetOffice
Objective: To effectively manage overall performance o f all ministries and institutions
within an agreed framework of planned objectives and standards, and improve their        Management Development
capacityto deliver better services.                                                      Division
Expected Result: Strategic and performance management systems institutionalizedin the
Public Service.
Subcomponent 2.4 - PayrollManagementand Establishment Control(US$4.85million)            Cabinet Office
Objectives: To accurately and effectively manage and maintain personnel emoluments
and establishmentsfor the public serviceto support improvedservice delivery.             Public Service
Expected Results: Payroll and establishment effectively managed and controlled at the Management Division
central line ministry and provincial levels throughan integrated computer-basedsystems;
rigorous and robust data management policies and practices developed, implemented and
used accordingto schedule for all establishmentmanagementand control systems.

Subcomponent 2.5 - PSM Secretariat(US3.52 million)                                       Cabinet Office
Objectives: Coordinate, manage and providesupport to the implementingunits of the
 PSM component so that they effectively achieve the planned results; monitor, evaluate Permanent Secretary -
and report to GRZ and donors on componentprogress and achievements.                      Management Development
Expected Results: Efficient and effective management o f the component; successful Division
implementation of activities under the PSM component.
                                                        Box 4.1




Component 3: Retrenchments                                                               ImplementingOffice

Subcomponent3.1 - Retrenchments(US$lO.OO million)                                        CabinetOffice
Objective: Payment o f Severance Packagesto retrenchedpublic servants.
Expected Result: Implementationof an approvedestablishment and removal o f excess        Permanent Secretary -
staff from the payroll.                                                                  Management Development

                                                                      52




                                                                       Box 4.2
                       Diagrammatic Representationof Responsibilityfor Implementation


                                                                                        I           J
                 PEMFA
Mlnirtry ofImplementingAgency:                                                 implemenl Agency:
            Financeand NationalPlannlng                                           Cabln




                                        l.lCCIFMS, 1.2- IFMIS,
                             1.S-Fitcal Policy, 1.4-BudgetExecution, 1.5-
                                        Debt management,1.6-




                                                                                                2.2 Pay Reform,2.4 PMEC
                                                                                                   -




                                                                                            P:
                                                                                                  3.1-Retrenchments


                             Zambia instituteof CeriifledAccountanyi:.
                             1.11 -Accountancy Trainingand Overslghl




                               Zambia NatlonalTender Board: Publlc
                                                              .
                                         ProcurementReform

                                              53


COMPONENT 1:PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL
ACCOUNTABILITY (PEMFA).

Overview

1.      The Zambian government, through its Public Expenditure Management and Financial
Accountability (PEMFA) component, is rolling out far-reaching public expenditure reforms that will
improve: the way inwhich the country's public finances are managedandthe income generatedfrom
collectionoftaxes are utilized so that benefitscan accrueto all the citizens of the country.

2.      Over the next five years, government personnel, civil society, and the public are expected to
see improvements in the way that financial informationis gathered, disseminated, managedand used.
The PEMFA component will builduponthe government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP),
the Transitional NationalDevelopment Plan (TNDP) and the MediumTerm Expenditure Framework
(MTEF) to ensure that tax-payers' and donor partners' money is put to the best possible use in the
overall strategy of poverty reduction. The aim of the component is to improve government capacity
to effectively and efficiently mobilize and use public resources and strengthen financial
accountability.

3.      At the heart of the component will be an improved system of financial management and
reportingthroughout government that will leadto a better matchbetweengovernmentpolicy, budgets
and actual expenditure in the community. This in turn will make for a more predictable release of
funds to governmentdepartments to enablethem to conduct their work better.

4.      There will also be other changes under the component that will improvethe internal workings
of government, including development of a sound debt management policy and compatible legal
provisions, along with improved public sector procurement, a stronger role for the Office of the
Auditor General and greater parliamentary enforcement powers. In addition, accounting profession
ethics andtrainingwill be enhanced.

5.      The componentevolvedfrom the PEMFA Review conducted in2001by the Governmentand
the World Bank with support from other donors. The Reviewdraws heavilyon existingWorld Bank
diagnostic tools such as the Country FinancialAccountability Assessments (CFAA) and the Country
Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) and identifies a number of problems with the public
finance system, despiteprogresswith other reforminitiatives.

6.      While ultimate responsibilityfor the reforms rests with the Ministry of Finance andNational
Planning, there are a number of other institutions directly involved in the component, including the
Zambia NationalTender Board, the Office of the Auditor General, Parliament, the Zambia Instituteof
CharteredAccountants and the Ministry ofJustice.

7.      PEMFA has 12subcomponentsandasecretariatsubcomponent.

Subcomponent 1.1 Commitment Control and FinancialManagement System (FMS) (US1.30
                     -
million).

8.      Status: Under PSCAP, IDA supported the design and implementationof the Commitment
Control Systemwhich was initiated inOctober 2002 as a pilot projectin4 ministries. It was extended
to all Ministries in 2004. The commitment control system seeks to control expenditure to the
quarterly allocationceilingsas a measureto curb domestic arrears.

9.      The implementationof the commitment control system has shown some impact on curbing
the accumulation of domestic arrears. It should be noted though that while the accumulation of
arrears has slowed down, it has not been halted. Preliminary results for 2003 indicate a slight
reduction in the stock of domestic arrears over 2002 as a percentage of GDP. In 2002 domestic

                                              54


arrears stood at 3.7% o f GDP. In 2003 it was 3.6% o f GDP. The full benefit o f the commitment
control system will not be fully realized untilthe budget office improves its cash management and the
FMS is deployed to all spending agencies throughout the provinces and districts. It will take some
time for line ministries andvendors to adjust to the new purchase culture.

10.     The Financial Management System (FMS) is an in-house accounting system developed
specifically for public finance in Zambia and was implemented in 2002 and rolled out to all the
ministries in 2003. The FMS system has four main modules comprising o f the budget, commitment
control, arrears and actual payment modules. The initial implementation o f the FMS systemhas been
very instrumental in improving the bank reconciliations, implementing the commitment control
system and improving on the Monthly Expenditure Returns. The implementation o f FMS also
constitutes a significant and important step towards the implementation o f IFMIS. I t identifies critical
information and account processing requirements and systemizes further the accounting and reporting
function. Its evolution will go a long way towards contributing to the specification o f the IFMIS
modules and preparing staff for the transition to a fully computerized accounting and reporting
environment.

11.     InFMS, accounts are consolidated monthly and data are integrated into the centralized FMS
system at the Accountant General's Department on a quarterly basis. It should be noted though that
while the FMS system reasonably assures accuracy at the aggregate level, it does not do so at the sub-
item or item level, since the only validation check that is incorporated into the FMS with respect to
accounting code entries i s that such a code be a legitimate one.

12.     With the long period required for the development o f the data network infrastructure to
support a national implementation o f IFMIS, it is clear that FMS will continue to serve as an
important tool o f financial management in Zambia for some time. It will require that FMS outputs
serve as an input option to the IFMIS system so that an integrationo f the systems can be facilitated.

13,     Objective: More effective financial management, accounting and commitment control.

14.     Activities: The activities to be carried out under this component include the: (a) roll-out o f a
financial management system to all central spending agencies and provinces; (b) implementation o f a
new treasury management system; and (c) establishment o f reporting mechanisms o f financial
information relating to capital projects. The latter activity will help facilitate timely release o f funds
by the Treasury and will help set upmechanisms that ensure that recurrent costs of capital projects are
planned for and incorporated inthe budget prior to inception.

15.     Further development o f commitment control systems will be undertaken by integrating them
into the financial management system. Effective sanctions will be taken against controlling officers
who do not respect commitment control policies and spending ceilings as indicated in the new
Finance Act.    Work under this subcomponent will involve a major reform o f the government's
accounting system to address the problems associated with manual record-keeping and out-of-date
technology, along with incompatibility between budget preparation, budget execution and payroll
management procedures.

16.        ExpectedResults:

           1) Fully automated commitment control system
           2) Retooled o f FMS to take into account the ABB budgetingprocess
           3) Fullimplementation o f FMS in all provinces, districts and spending agencies.

                                                55


Subcomponent 1.2 - Integrated Financial Management Information Systems (IFMIS)
Implementation(US$26.49 million).

17.     Status: Three previous attempts to implement an IFMIS in Zambia have failed.                   The
current first phase commenced during fiscal year 2003 which envisages to implement a systemic core
IFMIS procedural, human resource and legislative reforms in the areas o f planning, budgeting,
financial management, accounting, internal auditing and financial reporting. Originally, the IFMIS
Pilot Project was proposed to be implemented under PSCAP. However, it was realized that IDA
funds to fund the IFMIS program through PSCAP were not adequate to support the development and
implementation o f the entire IFMIS project, thus making a harmonized multi-donor approach to
fundingthe activity as the most appropriate solution.

18.     The relationship between the ongoing PEMFA reform agenda and the IFMIS subcomponent
outputs suggests the project continues to have a strong business case that justifies its continued
pursuance. However, continuing delays and the suggested phased implementation o f the IFMIS
suggests that achievement o f full benefits o f the IFMIS are likely to take a number o f years to arise. In
the interim current systems such as FMS which provides the present approximate government's
financial standing will need to continue to operate. A hybrid implementation o f IFMIS interfaced
with FMS is proposed to address fragmentation o f financial management systems since IFMIS cannot
be expected to be rolled out to all provinces and districts for a long time yet.

19.     The IFMIS systems architecture design o f core procurement/accounting modules were, as
planned, largely set-up during 2003/2004 and are currently in the final stages o f development. The
current Government Financial Instructions Manual is outdated and must be updated in line with
proposed reform changes. In addition, the Accounting Manual, and Payroll Manual must be updated
preferably before the IFMIS contractor i s mobilized in country. Regulations need to be developed,
incorporating best practice and made public to ensure both accountability and transparency in line
with the revised Finance Act. These processes are part of overall IFMIS implementation, and should
not constitute a fragmentation o f the overall legislative framework. There is a requirement for close
coordination with the reform o f the Legal and Regulatory Framework.

20.     Generally, the current environment i s supportive o f the IFMIS implementation. In addition
the first phase has had considerable success to date in ensuring the establishment of effective
governance and participation arrangements. However outside training and the championship o f the
AG's office, inadequate Human Resource Management (HRM) arrangements still represent a high
riskto implementation and sustainability.

21.     The current situation suggests that the 2005/2006 period should continue to be regarded as a
most critical period inthis components life cycle due to the planto select a `turnkey' solution firm for
development and implementation o f the system during which time all outstanding System/ICT issues
should have been dealt with and resolved.

22.     While there has been some involvement in the design from representatives from other
component lead institutions, these critical tasks have often been undertaken by IT personnel within
these lead institutions rather than the functional experts. One exception seems to have been the
fruitfulinvolvement o fthe Internal Audit and Control staff duringthe IFMIS specification stage. It is
envisaged that work groups from other components will be organized so that they can provide inputs
duringthe duringthe customizationprocess.

23.     IFMIS is a critical element o f the PEMFA reform and it has the highest budget allocation
under the PEMFA component since it is linked to and supports/influences the other 11
subcomponents.

24.     Objective: To improve public expenditure management through an integrated and automated
financial management system in order to ensure efficient and effective use o f public resources.

                                               56



25.      Activities: The following activities are planned under this subcomponent:

              Finalizing the design o f IFMIS. Activities will include revising the current design and
              consultation with end users o f the system.
         0    Development o f a project team and governance structure.              The project team
              characteristics and the governance structure surrounding its operation are critical to the
              successful implementation o f the IFMIS. Major changes o f this nature require careful
              and sensitive project management and governance that ensures that it remains aligned
              with the operational requirements o f the ministries and assists in resolving
              implementationhurdles.
         0    Preparation o f a realistic, comprehensive, time-bound action plan is an essential
              component in any project implementation. The action plan will ensure the integration
              and the sequencing o f the individual activities. I t will also provide the basis for
              monitoring progress, allocating responsibility and accountability, and following up on
              budgetary outcomes.
         0    Creation o f an IFMIS implementation group as a first step towards implementing
              sustainable IFMIS capacity.       This will require it to be translated into recognized
              organizational units within the Accountant General & Budget Directors Department
              staffed with trained and well motivated personnel. The Central Computer Services
              Department (CCSD) is currently participating in the implementation group. However,
              an organizational review is required to establish the corporate skill requirements o f
              CCSD given the rapidly changing ICT environment in Zambia and the increased
              demand for skilled IT staff within the Government Sector.
         0    Design o f the IFMIS Architecture. The development and implementation o f WAN and
              its suitability will be one o f the major activities under this subcomponent. The WAN
              will provide the tools for overall communication between spending units, data entry
              units, decision making units, data center and the human resources that operate and
              maintain the system.
         0    Alignment o f existing and proposed business protocols. Implementation o f the IFMIS
              will affect all departments in a major way. It is important that the proposed solution
              aligns with existing/proposed business processes o f the government and satisfies
              identified needs.    The alignment will need to consider the system application, the
              networks and data center and the human resources that operate andmaintain the system.
              Unless all components are inplace and fully operational, the solution will be difficult to
              implement and sustain.
              Design o f long term training activities: Inaddition, the IFMIS team as part o f their past
              training and learning from their visits o f countries that implemented relevant IFMIS
              solution will design an internal training plan which could be the precursor for the long
              term training activities.

26.     Support to this subcomponent will constitute technical assistance, consultancy, training
(including travel) and procurement o f equipment.

27.      ExpectedResults:

         1) The IFMIS will be piloted in five ministries (to be then rolled-out to all ministries,
              provinces and spending agencies before being integrated with the systems o f other
              institutions such as local authorities, grant-aided institutions and parastatals in the next
              phase);
         2) Implementation o f a government wide area network;
         3)   Well conceptualized, documented and a comprehensive I C T strategy;
         4) Trained cadre of ITand FMS experts in GRZ;

                                                57


           5) Restructuring and training o f staff o f the Government's Information Technology Unit,
                (CCSD) for them to be able to support IFMIS after implementation. This department
               would also be expected to coordinate the full roll out o f IFMIS to other ministries,
                departments and spending agencies; and
           6) UpdatedGovernment FinancialRegulations manual.

Subcomponent 1.3 ImprovedFiscal Policy and EconomicPlanning(US$Z.OS million).
                      -
28.      Status:     GRZ has a limited scope for increasing domestic revenue from taxation. Itneeds to
focus on maximizing the impact o f its existing expenditure on poverty reduction. Reducing the fiscal
drain o f parastatals, and promoting effective and transparent use o f resources through better public
expenditure management, financial accountability and procurement systems is critical, but this is
hampered by weak links between policy and the budgeting process that mean policies are more
difficult to set and their implementation is not always inline with original plans.

29.      Objective: To attain a policy-based budgetary process that i s able to facilitate the effective
mobilization and allocation o f resources ina systematic, effective, efficient and predictable manner.

30.      Activities: The following activities are planned under this subcomponent and will include
development and implementation of:

             multi-year planning andbudgeting tool by buildingon the recent budget tool;
             systems and mechanisms to ensure effective policy-budget linkages;
             systems to promote effective and transparent utilization o f public resources;
             program to build adequate capacity to analyze economic developments, formulate
             appropriate economic policies and generate credible policy options to facilitate informed
             decision making;
             up to date database to facilitate socio-economic modeling;
             macro-economic model for monitoring the effects o f government policy and other external
             shocks on the economy and for macro-economic forecasting;
             fiscal policy analysis module for monitoring inflation and volume and rate o f GDP
             growth; and
             fiscal policy module to the macro-economic model for analyzing inmore detail the impact
             o f the economy on the budget and vice versa.

31.        Expected Results:

           1) A multi year planning tool is institutionalized; and
           2) Implementation o f a macro-economic model.

Subcomponent 1.4 ReformedBudget Preparationand Budget Execution(US$0.74 million).
                       -
32.      Status:     A major weakness in current budget preparation is the weak linkage between the
policy and budget processes. This often has led to ad hoc allocation o f resources. Additionally, the
release o f funds i s unsystematic, unpredictable, and inadequate, making i t difficult for ministries,
departments and institutions to execute their planned activities. There is need for a structure that can
link medium term development objectives to the annual budget process. The development and
implementation o f the MTEFis intended to provide a multi-year planning horizon that will implement
policy changes that require a phased approach.

33.      The PEMFAR diagnostic report also identified the weak credibility of the budget as one of
the most important issues the MoFNP has to deal with. In addition the following weaknesses are
mentioned: (i)    lack o f comprehensiveness o f budget; (ii) o f functional or programmatic budget
                                                             lack

                                                58


classification; (iii) very large and un-strategic budget presentation; and (iv) weak linkbetweenpolicy,
planning andbudgeting.

34.      In2003 the PlanningDepartment within MoFNP developed a Budget FrameworkPaper as a
forerunner to the MTEF. The MoFNP prepared a first pass at an MTEF for the 2004 to 2006 period.
For the 2004 and 2005 Budget, a multi-year expenditure framework was completed. However, it
required further refinement before it can be incorporatedinto the formal budget preparationprocess
and facilitate improved discussion with Parliament and civil society at a more strategic level. It
should be pointed out that experience in other countries have shown that a well finctioning MTEF is
not realizedquickly.

35.      The Ministry of Finance implementedactivity basedbudgetinginall of the lineministries for
the 2004 Budget and the same framework was used for the 2005 budget. The budgetpreparationwas
facilitated by the implementationof an "Access" based software facility. This provides a muchmore
effective framework for translationofpolicy objectivesinto the budget instrument. It can be expected
though that it will take a while before all of the budget preparation procedures down to the district
level will be able to reflect an activity based approach. Also, output, outcomes and impacts will be
definedso that simple and meaningfulmonitoring performance indicatorscan be facilitated.

36.      Objective: To establish a credible budgetingprocess and a transparent and clear presentation
of the budget document and to implement the budget in a more efficient and predictable fashion, with
reducedvariance betweenbudget and actual spending.

37.      Activities: The government's annualbudget sets out its expected sources of revenue and the
way in which it plans to use them. However, without a fill picture of current government finances,
this may be difficult, and could leadto a gap, between the policies and plans approved by Parliament
and the actual funding allocations and expenditure by ministries. This will be addressed under this
subcomponent through the development of a more user-friendly budget document, undertaking
regular public expenditure reviews and improving the system of cash release. Specific activities will
include:

               Furtherrefinement oftheMTEF;
               Development and implementation of mechanisms to effectively link national
               development priorities to annual budgets;
               Building capacity in cost planning to facilitate development of realistic annual budget
               costings;
          0    Engaging cabinet, parliament and other stakeholders earlier in the budget process to
              build consensus and ownership;
               Reviewing the annual budget format to incorporate information on the status of capital
              projects and major policy changes, and on budget expenditures of local government,
               state enterprises, pensions and other special funds, quasi- governmental institutions and
               donor-executedprojects;
               Rolling out of Activity Based Budgeting (ABB) framework to all grant-aided
               institutions;
               integrating and enforcing the classification system into the cash release process and
               accounting system as the primary basis for budget preparation, executionand reporting
               as well as for identifying and monitoring of poverty-reducing expenditures in the
              budget;
               Developing and implementingmechanisms to enforce strict adherence to the ABB;
               Developing procedures/guidelines on the preparation and review of quarterly cash
               allocations; and
              Developing a policy on how supplemental appropriations and sequestrations could
               influence the preparationofthe quarterly cash allocationplan.

                                               59


38.      ExpectedResults:

           1) Full implementation o f ABB to all districts and spending agencies;
           2) Full implementation of MTEF;
           3) Re-designed budget format that i s user friendly and easier to understand; and
           4) Annual Public Expenditure Reviews.

Subcomponent1.5 ImprovedDebtManagement(US$0.53 million).
                      -
39.       Status:   GRZ has a highexternal and domestic debt burden, and effective management of
this debt is required to ensure it is reduced to sustainable levels. Inthe past, the lack of a policy on
debt reduction and the limited information on debt data has made management difficult. This has
been compounded by inadequate legislation, inconsistent policies towards parastatal debts, and lack o f
resources and training.

40.      A separate debt management department was set up in 2001 as part of a restructuring o f the
MoFNP. The department still requires some role definition since there is still overlap with the budget
office on the interactionwith Bank o f Zambia and the management o f short term debt.

41.       The role o f the Investment and Debt Management Department includes the management o f
very substantial arrears particularly for roads contracts, long-service and terminal benefits and pension
liabilities. At this time there are no effective databases to assist in the management o f these arrears
even though the Internal Control andAudit Office maintain a database on domestic arrears.

42.       Currently, there is a significant issue over the management o f government investments in
approximately 45 parastatals, which include financial institutions and an insurance company. There is
no governance structure in place or capacity to identify actual and contingent liabilities and to ensure
that profitable state owned enterprises are paying dividends and meeting their statutory and other
obligations

43.       The Bank is currently providing TA to the Investment and Debt Management through the
Treasury Department to complement its debt management capacity building activity with the Central
Bank (Bank o f Zambia). I t has worked closely with the department to prepare the activities under this
component which include reforms to the back office function o f the department and development o f a
planto develop a domestic debt market.

44.       Objective: To manage Zambia's debt, both domestic and external, to sustainable levels and
effectively manage government investments.

45.       Activities: Activities will include:

             Finalization and adoption o f a public debt policy andreduction strategy;
             Harmonization o f laws governing contracting and management o f public debt;
             Development and implementation o f a Government Policy and Regulatory Framework on
             enforcing financial discipline in Parastatals, Grant-Aided institutions and Statutory
             Bodies;
             Enhancement of humanand institutional capacity for debt management; and
             Development and implementationo f domestic debt management reforms.

ExpectedResults:

            1) Public Debt Management strategy;
            2) Development o f a public debt market policy and implementation;
            3) Centralized data base o f domestic and external debt;

                                               60


          4) Harmonizedlegislation regardingpublic debt contraction and management;
          5) Establishment o f a domestic debt market; and
          6) Policy on parastatal debt.

Subcomponent 1.6 ImprovedInternal Audit (US$3.51 million).
                      -
46.      Status: The internal audit function is critical for helping to ensure compliance with sound
financial management. InZambia, the role o f the Internal Audit Department i s set out inthe Financial
Regulations. The main internal audit functions are maintaining the pre-audit controls on expenditure,
as well as assessing the overall adequacy o f the financial management systems and ensuring that
required procedures are inplace. Inpractice, various factors impact the effectiveness o f internal audit
including the level of independence, the scope and content o f its work plans, the level o f resources
available to it, and the degree o f follow-up on its findings. InZambia, the Internal Auditors have been
effective indiagnosing problems in the financial management procedures, but their potential impact is
still severely limited due to the lack o f adequate resources to carry out their work and insufficient
incentives for Controlling Officers to implement their recommendations.

47.      The institutional relationships and structure o f internal audit appear to give it ample
independence from the line ministries and other entities. However, there may be some vulnerability
that stems from the funding mechanism for its work.            The Internal Audit Department (IAD) i s
anchored within MoFNP, and headed by the Controller o f Internal Audits who in turn reports to the
Secretary to the Treasury. Internal auditors are assigned to each o f the line ministries, but their
reporting lines are still to the central ministry. The independence o f the internal auditors is not
necessarily safeguarded by the current budgetary release practices. In practice, it has been reported
that internal auditors have had full support from controlling officers, but there remains a risk that they
couldbe penalized through the funding mechanismas a result o f their findings.

48.      Financial resources and staffing constraints are important barriers to Internal Audit's
effectiveness. Even ongoing routine audit activities suffer from the shortage in personnel. There
were some institutional strengthening through PSCAP for the IAD through training o f accountants
and procurement o f equipment, but this did not significantly impact on the Department. Under
PSCAP, IDA also started the implementation o f the CAATS and its rollout and training will continue
under PEMFA.

49.      Finally, one o f the most important factors in the effectiveness o f IAD is the magnitude of
follow-up to its findings. When the IAD uncovers problems and recommends actions to be taken, it i s
critical that there be follow-through.        Without the legitimate threat o f sanctions, audits are
counterproductive by emboldening the behavior o f wrongdoers. Effective follow-up often fails to
occur,   Under the revised Finance Act, sanctions have been defined but the challenge will be
enforcing such sanctions. Although the Auditor General (AG) has authority to carry out audits to
verify compliance with the IAD's recommendations, severe budget constraints on the AG may
prevent them from doing so.

50.      Objective:To strengthen internal controls for improved public expenditure management and
financial accountability.

51.      Activities: The Improved Internal Audit subcomponent will:

          Develop and implement tailor made training programmes in order to fill the identified skill
           gaps;
          Undertake further retooling o f the Department o f Internal Audit and Control;
          Develop and implement a mechanism for allocating resources to priority audits;
          Review and strengthen the regulatory framework relating to Internal Audit and Control; and

                                              61


       0  Develop and implement a mechanism to ensure follow ups on audit findings and
           recommendations.

52.     ExpectedResults:

          1) Computer Aided Audit Techniques (CAAT) will be fully adopted and implemented;
          2) Internal Audit Department (IAD) will be directly funded by the budget office;
          3)  Improved annual work plans will be developed; and
          4) Institutional arrangements that link IADto the Office o f the Auditor General.

Subcomponent1.7 Better ExternalFinanceCo-ordination(US$0.50 million).
                    -

53.     Status: The lead institution for management o f external finances is the external technical
cooperation (ETC) department which was set up in2001 as part o fthe restructuring o f the ministry. It
was hived off from the debt management department. Although external financing is an important
aspect o f Zambia's budget, there is no systematic mechanism to obtain information about donor
contributions and disbursements.    GRZ wishes to improve the predictability and certainty of the
resources available and wants to coordinate and harmonize requirements and conditionalities attached
to donor funds. This component narrowly focuses on the role o f providing information in respect o f
resource flows into the budget, and as such requires better databases o f financing agreements and
effect better monitoring. A key aspect o f this component would be to redesign its role on more active
management in the follow up o f projects and programs in terms o f ensuring that conditions are met
and reported upon ina timely manner and donor flows are tracked ina uniformmanner.

54.     Objective: To improve overall budgetaryplanning and co-ordination o f external financing by
integrating donor partner flows into the budget.

55.     Activities: The subcomponent will:

          Develop and implement a mechanism to ensure that all external resources are integrated in
           the MTEF and annual budgets;
        0 Develop and adopt a standard format for reporting on external assistance;
        0 Develop and adopt a standard procedures, processes and systems for managing external
           assistance; and
          Establish and maintain up to date and accurate database on various aspects of external
           assistance.

ExpectedResults:

           1) Aid coordination database established;
          2) Reportingmechanisms o f inflows developed; and
          3) Institutional arrangements that better link ETC to the budget office are operationalized.

Subcomponent 1.8       - Consistent Legal Framework for Public Expenditure Management
(US$l.OO million).

56.      Status: One o f the most important challenges facing Zambia is the inconsistency between
the legal framework for public finance and the actual structures and incentives in place to ensure
accountability. GRZ has identified an urgent need to review and harmonize existing laws relating to
public financial management and institutions to be in line with accepted international best practice
and to support the reforms being undertaken under PEMFA.

                                               62


The legal system has both institutional and human resources problems which include: (i)inadequate
skilled personnel in International Law, Drafting, and Agreements preparations; and (ii) problem with
recruitment andretention o f legal professionals.

57.      Objective: To have a consistent andharmonized legal framework to support transparency and
accountability inthe public sector.

Activities: The subcomponent will:

     0  Establish and maintain an effective and efficient automated records and information
        management system;
     0  Review relevant legislationto harmonize the regulatory framework for public finances in line
        with reforms (there are a number o f Acts including the Finance Act, the Procurement Act, the
        Loans and Guarantees Act, the Accountancy Act, the Bank o f Zambia Act, the Accountancy
        Act, the Ministry o f Finance Act, the Employment and the Constitution that will all have an
        impact on Public Expenditure Management and it will be necessary to address all o f these acts
        and possibly others);
        Train staff inthe Ministryo f Justice in legislative drafting.

ExpectedResults:

Preparation o f a revised Finance Act and revised financial regulations submitted to Cabinet Office in
line with the PEMFA reforms.

Subcomponent 1.9      - Strengthened External Audit (Office of the Auditor General) (US$7.59
million).

58.      Status: The Auditor General (AG) is required under the Constitutionto submit herihis audit
report to the President within 12 months o f the end o f the financial year    - the President has the
responsibility for laying the report before Parliament within seven days o f receiving it. Similar
provisions were made in the Public Finance Act 2004. It is noteworthy that the Public Audit Act
1980 essentially gives the AG the authority to follow public money to anywhere it may go. It widens
the power o f the AG beyond the audit o f books, records, and reports o f govemment departments and
the statutory corporations described in the 1969 Act to include the audit, as shehe deems fit, o f every
statutory corporation, and every private institution that receives Government grant, subsidy, or
subvention inany financial year.

59.      The AG is empowered to request from independent auditors o f state-owned enterprises
(SOEs) any document, reports, or information relating to the accounts o f SOEs.

60.      There are adequate statutory provisions concerning the appointment, tenure, and auditees o f
the AG. Given the democratic setting, the functioning of the AG can be significantly enhanced if the
identified weaknesses are addressed.

61.      While the AG, as a public official, enjoys adequate independence based on statutory
provisions, in practice the AG's independence is hampered by availability o f adequate human and
financial resources to discharge the AG's statutory responsibilities. Financial resources available to
the O A G are subject to restrictions imposed by MoFNP while staffing i s subject to civil service
regulations.

62.      The AG does not have absolute control over staffing. Staff o f the Office o f the Auditor
General (OAG) are recruited by the Public Service Commission (PSC). The conditions o f service o f
OAGstaff are determined by the PSC in a manner similar to other public servants. Consequently, the
OAGis unable to retain qualified staff due to unfavorable conditions o f service. The OAGhas strived

                                                63


 to adopt an audit methodology recommended by the International Organization o f Supreme Audit
 Institutions (INTOSAI). Due to limitations in capacity, the degree o f compliance is low.

  63.     Although the AG's remuneration is a direct charge on the Government revenues as the
 remunerations o fjudges, the remuneration i s inadequate, as it has not been reviewed for a long time.
 Inadequate compensation, especially when it involves lower pay compared to similar constitutional
 office holders can be demoralizing.

  64.     The AG does not report directly to Parliament. The AG submits herhis report to the President
  who then lays the report before Parliament. Since the AG does not report through the overall head o f
  government departments that it audits, this diminishes its independence. More often than not, serious
  actions are not taken on the audit findings. This set up provides an incentive for hrther violations o f
 the financial regulations. The primary responsibility for follow-up on the AG's report rests with the
 Minister o f Finance, who inturn should be held accountable to the Parliament.

  65.     The core problem o f the OAGlies in the mismatch between resources made available to the
 office and the quantum o f its responsibilities. The prime difficulty is absence o f adequate and
 predictable financial resource. There have been substantial discrepancies between annual budget
'proposal and actual allocations. Also, there are problems with timing o f actual releases by the
 MinistryofFinance andNational Planning.

  66.     The AG currently perfoms regularly financial compliance audits. This is in line with existing
  statutory provisions, which requires the AG to audit all the accounts charged to the general revenues,
  and to satisfy herihimself that expenditures are inline with Parliament authorization.

  FinancialManagement

  67.     The AG has made submissions to the Constitutional Review Commission for employments,
  conditions o f service and that the budget for the office should be determined by a separate audit
  commission.

  68.     There i s a program in OAG financed separately through the Government o f Norway and the
  Netherlands that deals with challenges related to the restructuring o f the office, retention o f staff and
  implementation o f audit standards.

  69.     Objective: To enhance the external auditing function for improved accountability and
  transparency inthe use o fpublic resources.

  70.     Activities: The main activities financed under this component o fthe PEMFA Component will
  be related to the need to enhance the Office o f the Auditor General's institutional capacity and
  include:

            Enhancement o f the independence o f the Office o f the Auditor General;
            Development o f human and institutional capacity; and
            Decentralization o f the operations o f the OAG.

  ExpectedResults:

            1) Enhanced human and institutional capacity; and
            2) Fully functioning and manned decentralized OAG offices.

                                              64


Component1.10 EnhancingParliamentaryOversight(US$1.90 million).
                   -
71.      Status: Parliament performs both prior and post oversight roles in the public financial
management and accountability process. It is an autonomous institution whose main functions are to
legislate, to grant or vote money required by the state, to impose taxation, and to provide checks and
balances in the scrutiny o f the Executive. Parliament, through the Public Accounts Committee (PAC)
and Estimates Committee play an important oversight role in public expenditure management and
financial accountability.

72.      In the past the PAC and Estimates Committee have been unable to undertake respective
oversight functions effectively. This has been due to the following problems: (i)inadequate
orientation and induction on the role o f PAC and Estimates Committee; (ii)     inadequate professional
skills o f National Assembly staff; (iii)limited mandate of PAC to ensure the enforcement of
recommendations o f Auditor General; (iv) limited operational facilities; and (v) limited mandate o f
Estimates Committee to ensure the enforcement o f adherence to public expenditure estimates.

73.      Under the first phase, the following interventions were made: (i) members and support
                                                                            PAC
staff were trained; (ii)PAC members and staff were attached to other Parliaments within and outside
o f the region; (iii)
                    PAC was retooled; (iv) the public awareness role o f the Parliament was enhanced;
and (v) PACT Zambia supported Parliamentary Reforms.

74.      Objective: To develop the capacity o f Parliament to play its oversight role inpublic resources
management inorder to promote the culture o f transparency and accountability.

75.      Activities: This subcomponent include the following activities:

              Provision o f capacity buildingsupport to Committee Members and support staff;
              Promotion o f public awareness on the functions o f Parliament and its Committees;
              Opening up o f Committee meetings to public attendance; (this will entail buildingmore
              and bigger committee rooms);
              Automation o f Committee work processes;
              Putting inplace a feedback mechanism to Parliament;
              Technical assistance support to the Committees; and
              Retoolingo f the parliamentary processes o f PAC and Estimate committees.

76.      ExpectedResults:

           1) More effective and greater participation by parliamentarians in the budget, preparation
               and execution process; and
           2) Greater participation o f the public inmonitoring the budget.

Subcomponent1.11 Accountancy Trainingand Regulation(US$1.92 million).
                       -
77.      Status: GRZ is of the view that there can be few improvements in public expenditure
management and financial accountability without a strong accountancy profession. The Zambia
Institute o f Chartered Accountants (ZICA) i s responsible for regulating and ensuring the professional
development o f accountants.

78.      The accountancy profession is regulated by an Act o f Parliament. With the advent o f
increased emphasis on improving public expenditure management, the need to effectively regulate the
accountancy profession has become critical. There is need for increased regulatory influence on the
accountancy professionals especially in the public service.

                                                65


79.      The regulation o f the accountancy profession has over the years suffered from the lack o f
institutional and human resource capacity to carry out its statutory duties. The curriculum for the
technician qualification was developed in 1996 and required updating to take into account change in
the financial world. The accountancy profession had no local professional qualification after the
Zambia Diploma in Accountancy (ZDA) was discontinued. The data management systems were
largely manual. The profession lacks a one-stop resource center where facilities such as a library,
printingpress, appropriate equipment, conference center and bookshop can be located.

80.      Under the first phase, in addition to the support provided to the direct training o f accountants,
the regulatory body, Zambia Institute o f Chartered Accountants (ZICA), received some funds for
institutional capacity building, technical assistance to consolidate its education function, and
preparatory work needed for the construction o f the learning resource center.

81,      The following achievements were made: (i)National Accounting Technician (NaTech)
qualification was revised; (ii)semi-professional qualification was developed (Licentiate level); (iii)
reasonable level o f retooling was achieved; (iv) architectural drawings and bills o f quantities for
resource center completed; (v) computerized and integrated data management system developed and
initially implemented that resulted in records management improvements, timely response to student
and membership queries and prompt decision making; (vi) updated code o f conduct was developed
and put in place which has brought accounts profession practices in line with other international
regulators in the profession (the code o f conduct has also addressed matters to do with integrity and
independence o f the accountants); and (vii) Accountants Act developed that enabled ZICA to institute
disciplinary proceedings against an individual or firmo f accountants without a complainant.

82.      Objective: To strengthen the accountancy profession and to provide effective regulatory
services in order to promote highprofessional and ethical standards inthe accountancy profession.

83,      Activities: The subcomponent will includethe following activities:

           Preparation andprintingo f study texts for the revisedNaTECH qualification;
           Design o f the curriculum and examination o f a national profession accountancy
           examination; and
           Constructionand furnishing o f a one stop resource centre.

ExpectedResults:

            1) Revision o fthe NaTech Qualification;
           2) Sensitization o f all GRZ accountants in the provisions o f the Accountants Act and the
               Code o f Conduct;
            3) Implementation o f a continuous development program for accountants; and
           4) Construction and furnishing o f the One Stop Resource Centre.

Subcomponent1.12 Public ProcurementReform(US!8.83 million).
                      -
84.       Status: A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) was conducted for Zambia in
January and March 2002 by a team comprising officials from the Ministry o f Finance and National
Planning, a multi-disciplinary Task Force representing various concerned organizations set up by that
ministry, a group o f government consultants and World Bank officials. The CPAR analyzed the
existing public procurement system in Zambia and recommended suitable actions to improve the
economy, efficiency, predictability, and transparency o f the procurement processes.

85.      The total volume of public procurement in 2001 was estimated at USs485.0 million,
equivalent to 15 percent o f GDP, which is a higher proportion than the 10 percent estimated for most
countries in Africa. The Central Tender Committee (CTC) o f the Zambia National Tender Board

                                                    66


(ZNTB) processed and approved procurement valued at 12percent of GDP while another 3 percent of
GDP was procured at a decentralized level by ministries and provincial administrations. Even at a
conservative estimate o f 10 percent, efficiency gains can be achieved through better procurement
policies, practices, and institutional arrangements that could mean a yearly gain to Treasury o f about
US$50.0 million.

86.       A gap between the intentions and practice pervades various aspects o f Zambia's public
procurement. Despite a legal and institutional framework, weaknesses in its structure and content
allow irregular practices and procedures. While the ZNTB is expected to enforce procurement rules
the current practice is more liberal in terms o f permitting exceptions and allowing negotiations to
replace clear procurement guidelines. For example, a system to register suppliers for small-value
procurement has flaws that could engender corrupt practices. While short-lists are drafted on the
basis o f the registration list, each short-list i s subject to misuse to favor particular firms. Furthermore,
the registration lists are not systematically updated nor are the means available to check the data that
applicants submit through the registration forms. Moreover, the system is liberally used for larger
value items than intended. The ZNTB also has a significant supervisory role, but its extended role in
processing procurement prevents this. The existing system for handling complaints features a very
narrow scope and design and lacks independence from the ZNTB which is involved in the
procurement process, causing increased dissatisfaction o f suppliers and contractors.

87.       The slow pace o f "delegation o f authority to procure" to the ministries and institutions i s
partly due to lack o f confidence in the capacity o f ministries. The lack o f interest in ministries and
agencies to actively pursue even the limited program o f delegation o f procurement authority is
symptomatic o f underlying causes such as preference for a system o f diffused responsibility and
accountability offered by the current weak systems and procedures and institutional arrangements.

88.       The current legal framework lacks robustness and features structural, and content,
inadequacies. Basic principles o f procurement are not captured comprehensively.                  Furthermore,
aspects that should be inthe Act are inthe regulations or guidelines and vice versa. The ZNTB's role
i s not limited to oversight and policy functions, as it also must manage public procurement through
CTC. Among the neglected oversight functions include: (i)monitoring and gathering statistics on
public procurement; (ii)     developing procurement capacities and capabilities, and (iii)       implementing
public procurement reform.

89.       Two current practices which foster higher prices are: (i)using negotiations as an accepted
procurement method; and (ii)       misusing the registration system for purchases from short-listed firms.
Inaddition, ZNTB's capacity to resist ministrypressure promotes acceptance of less cost-efficient and
ambiguous procurement methods and the relatively low thresholds lead to more costly procured goods
and civil works. These low thresholds cause ministries to split contracts into smaller sizes to avoid
ZNTB involvement. The registration system is then used to buyitems beyond the monetary threshold
for the registration.

90.       In the few departments where they do exist, procurement files are often incomplete. Also,
there are no instructions on how to structure an official procurement filing system and to maintain
individual files. Good contract management is difficult without a proper filing system and supporting
papers such performance guarantees. Procurement planning as a tool for conducting efficient and
economic procurement i s largely non-existent. Vital aspects o f procurement planning (packaging,
selecting appropriate procurement method and type o f contract) are not done early in the procurement
process. Inevitably, substantial delays in processing and inefficient "urgent" procurement actions
have resulted.

91.       The practice o f allocating a "nominal" lKwacha for "tentative" projects further strains the
budget for other projects when more than the allocated lKwacha i s finally released to such projects.

                                              67


92.      Consequences o f the budget system's weaknesses include: (i)contractors' bills being held up
for several months thus delaying the projects; (ii) delayed payments incurring interest charges that are
paid from a ministry's limited budget which results in reduced funds for product payments; and (iii)
protracted delays for payments of contracts in foreign currencies often results in higher payments
when translated into local currency due to exchange rate fluctuations. All these contribute to higher
procurement costs and avoidable losses to government.

93.      Even though a well-trained procurement cadre is crucial to efficient procurement, there has
been no progress in efforts to set up such a cadre. Over 600 people have been trained inprocurement
at different levels, some o f them through the first phase, but most have left their jobs for donor run
projects and the private sector. Trained staff leave because o f human resource development related
issues such as unclear career paths, unattractive salary structure, etc. The ZNTB's staff and those in
the ministries do not have defined career paths or a department responsible for managing the cadre
and its capacity development.

94.      Procurement training institutions such as the Zambian Institute o f Management (ZAMIM) and
Zambia Insurance Business College Trust (ZBIC) exist.          However, they need to upgrade their
offerings to feature mid-career and specialized procurement training programs to supplement the
supply management programs they currently conduct

95.      Reform o f the public procurement system has been on the Zambian Government's agenda for
almost a decade. This goal has resulted in a number o f donor-funded projects, which have supported,
and continue to support, the Government's public procurement reform agenda. In 1993, the World
Bank and the Zambian government agreed on a Financial and Legal Management Upgrading Project
(FILMUP), which among other things, focused on improving the Zambian National Tender Board's
and various ministries' procurement performance. In the mid-l990's, SIDA provided support for
training and capacity building for improved public procurement. In ESAC I1 (the second Economic
and Social Adjustment Credit), strengthening and streamlining public procurement was an important
element.    Under PSCAF' various capacity building activities were carried out including: (i)
establishing thirty seven (37) Procurement and Supplies Units (PSU's) in ministries and parastatals;
(ii)training ofstaff inprofessional procurements courses andpostings to PSUs; (iii)review of
procurement standards; (iv) revision o f procurement thresholds upwards, leading to speedy processing
o f procurement; and (v) establishment of on line data exchange system piloted innine (9) government
ministries.

96.      With the support o f the AfDB, the ZNTB drafted a Strategic Plan (2002-2006) that envisages
minor adjustments to legislation and decentralization limited to "certifying'' all fifty one (5 1) PSUs
over time, but not authorizing them to do all their own procurement.

97,      Objective: To promote and institutionalize a transparent, accountable and efficient public
procurement system in order to improve expenditure management.

98.      Activities: This subcomponent will:

        Re-establish the Policy and Supervisory Role o f ZNTB;
     0  Revise the Legal Framework (ideally, a new procurement act whose content should be guided
        by the UNCITRAL Model Law and by current international best practices. Among other
        things, it shall provide for a new procurement authority and a complaints system based in the
        procurement authority but with a separate, independent, part-time Appeals Body);
        Develop new regulations and guidelines on the basis o f the new act;
        Finalize the Plan for gradual delegation o f procurement authority;
     0  Establish a professional procurement cadre (The composition o f the cadre to be established
        and supporting measures shall be defined. A training action planwill be developed);
        Define a revisedRegistration System and establish new guidelines for small value contracts.

                                              68


     0  Introduce procurement planning and establish a new filing system (A manual on procurement
        planning shall be developed containing clear instructions for introduction o f best practices.
        Release o f budget funds from the budgetary system shall be suitably linked to realistic
        procurement plans. In addition, instructions and guidelines shall be developed for PSUs on
        establishing and maintaining a procurement filing system); and
        Strengthen training programs and training Institutions (A capacity assessment o f training
        institutions will be carried out and the required training programs will be developed and
        delivered).

99.      ExpectedResults:

     1) Procurement Act revised;
     2) Zambia National Tender Board transformed into a more effective and transparent regulatory
         and oversight body;
     3)  Procurement functions are decentralized;
     4) PSU's established inall ministries and institutions; and
     5) Professional procurement cadre established.

Sub-component 1.13 -PEMFA Secretariat (US$11.00 Million).

100.     Status: The PEMFA Secretariat will be based in the MoFNP and will provide an advisory
and co-ordinating role in the implementation o f the Program and will be headed by the PEMFA
Director who will work full-time on this assignment and will be in charge during the implementation
o f the program. The PEMFA Secretariat is a temporary arrangement and shall discontinue after
activities under the Program are completed. It i s envisaged that the function of the secretariat will be
institutionalized by the end o f the project. The Director will report to the Secretary to the Treasury.
Inline with its advisory role, the PEMFA Secretariat will have no line management functions within
the MoFNP.

101.     The PEMFA Secretariat will be assigned to support the following functions for the
component:

       0   Financial Management;
       0   Procurement;
           Monitoring and Evaluation;
           Technical advice inpriority areas; and
           Information and Communication.

102.     The Secretariat will comprise the following:

           Program Director;
           Monitoring & Evaluation Manager;
           Finance Manager;
       0   Capacity Development Expert;
       0   A Procurement Manager; and
           A Public Finance and Regulatory Expert.

103.     The complexity and comprehensiveness o f the reform program requires substantial Technical
Assistance (TA) support.       Such support will be made up o f both long term and short term
consultancies. The TA will be managed by the secretariat and there will be a pool o f funds available
(USS5.4 million, built into the Secretariat costs). The envisaged TA that may be requiredwill include
experts in: (i)  medium term fiscal; (ii) preparation; (iii)
                                          budget                   accounting / budget execution; (iv)

                                             69


debt management; (v) internal audit;        (vi) external audit; (vii) accountancy training; (viii)
procurement; (ix) parliament finance; (x) legal framework; and (xi) external finance coordination.

104.    Objectives: Coordinate, manage and provide support to the implementing units of the
PEMFA component so that they effectively achieve the planned results and monitor, evaluate and
report to GRZ and donors on component progress and achievements.

105.    Activities: The PEMFA Secretariat will be the primary mechanism for managing the
linkages between the twelve (12) vertical subcomponents. The secretariat will be responsible for
managing a pool o f TA resources.       The secretariat will also be responsible for preparing all
management and monitoring reports for the Joint Technical Working Group, the PEMFA Steering
Committee (see the implementation arrangements) and the donors. The Secretariat will be financed
from the pooled resources.

106.    ExpectedResults:

    1) Efficient and effective management o fthe component; and
    2) Successful implementation o f activities under the PEMFA component.

                                               70


COMPONENT 2: PUBLIC SERVICEMANAGEMENT(PSM) (US$12.0).

107.     Overview. The Public Service Management (PSM) component is a key ingredient o f the
overall PSMP. This component focuses on the effective management o f the people employed in the
public service in order to improve their performance and that o f the ministries and institutions for
which they work. Activities under the PSM component complement the effective implementation o f
the PEMFA component. The PEMFA component will not succeed without a public service where
employees are carrying out the right jobs, possess the appropriate skills to undertake them, and are
motivated to perform well. The natural synergies between the two components must therefore be
identified and leveraged within the project.       Total proposed SWAP funding from IDA for this
component is US$12.0 million.         IDA also proposes to provide additional financing o f US$lO.O
millionwhich will be earmarked for the severance packages.

108.     Status: Under PSCAP, system-wide improvements have been introduced and the capacity o f
the public service enhanced, including: (i)   piloting the establishment and payroll control system; (ii)
simplification of the staff grading system and elimination or rationalization o f many allowances; (iii)
development and adoption o f systems for strengthening policy management and institutionalizing
strategic management; and (iv) approval o f the decentralization policy.

109.     The PSM component has four technical subcomponents: (i)        rightsizing; (ii) reform; (iii)
                                                                                          pay
service delivery improvement; and (iv) payroll management and establishment control. This
component aims to build upon progress made in PSCAP, including the pay reform strategy approved
by Cabinet, the new General Orders defining standards for behavior in the public service, plans to
reform public service pensions, plans to strengthen social safety nets, ongoing actions to bring the
wage bill down to a sustainable level and retrenchment based upon ministerial restructuring plans.
The key sequencing for this component will be as follows: (a) bring the wage bill down to a
sustainable level; (b) put in place better arrangements for managing establishment and payroll; (c)
restructure government to achieve PRSP objectives more effectively; and (d) improve incentives.

110.     There are strong linkages with the PEMFA component. The joint appraisal report for that
component stresses the need for strong linkages between PEMFA and PSM. For example, improving
recruitment, retention and work motivation in the financial management cadres has as a necessary
condition narrowing the pay differentials with the private sector. There is also a linkage between the
management o f humanresources and the new budget process. Just as the MTEFi s prepared in terms
o f results to be achieved (through activity based budgeting), personnel also have to become more
performance oriented.

111.     PSMhas four (4) technical subcomponents and a secretariat subcomponent.

Subcomponent2.1-Rightsizing(US$1.53Million).

112.     Status: The need to right-size the public service to sustainable effective and efficient levels
has been under Government consideration since the early 1970s when the oil crisis forced the
Government to re-examine the bloated public service and to introduce budget restraint measures.
There was also the need to address the problem o f the decline inreal wages over the years, which led
to failure to recruit and retain key technical and professional staff, and also resulted inlow morale and
productivity. I t was, however, not until 1993, that right-sizing and pay reform assumed a center stage
inthe reformof the public service through the PSRP.

113.     The number o f public servants fell from about 180,000 in 1993, to 139,000 in 1997 and a low
o f 104,000 in 2000. The anatomy o f this change is uncertain, but includes the separation o f 15,000
classified employees (not o f permanent pensionable status), 4,000 voluntary separations, and
approximately 5,000 retirements "in the national interest" (separated after restructuring made certain
posts redundant). The remaining numbers are accounted for by attrition through retirement and death

                                                71


in service and a freeze onrecruitment, as well as the identification of ghost workers. Since 2000, the
numbers have risento approximately 114,000.

114.     The reduction initially from 180,000 to 104,000 (42%) over seven years i s probably
unprecedented in sub-Saharan Africa. I t appears that the reduction has been achieved through a
mixture o f government's acceptance o f the need to reduce service size and costs, external pressure
largely through IMF HIPC conditionalities, and an understanding amongst unions and managers that a
reduced service could finance salary increases.

115.     From 2001, the separations program has been linked to a program o f functional review and
restructuring, with the emphasis on rightsizing the establishment o f ministries to make them `fit for
purpose'. This has entailed both redundancies and hiring, sometimes rehiring, where shortages are
critical or new responsibilities created. Approximately 8,000 officers are currently on the payroll who
have not been accommodated within the new establishment structures, and their future employment
status is not clear.

116.     The process used for ministerial restructuring has developed over the past four years, but in
general follows a critical path from functional review, through strategy development to establishment
planning. Much o f the work is conducted through a week-long workshop at which outputs, strategy
and establishments are collectively devised.

117.     However, the restructuring exercises were carried out without taking into account the
financial realities and ABB principles. As a result it seems that these exercises did not take adequate
cognizance o f service delivery outputs and targets which should really be the drivers o f structural
change.

118.     A further consideration is that although sector advisory groups (SAGS, which include civil
society and donor membership) have been established to monitor sector achievement o f PRSP
delivery targets, monitoring o f targets is patchy, although a recentjoint donor review found that it was
better in key social sectors that receive substantial donor assistance. This means that many ministries
are not adequately tracking output achievements, so there is little meaningful feedback between
output andbudget (including establishment) allocations.

119.     Finally, the Ministry o f Finance has imposed ceilings not just for recurrent expenditure, but
also within these ceilings for establishment and recurrent direct costs (RDCs) originally to help
achieve the HIPC benchmark.          However, these constraints seem likely to continue post-HIPC
completion. This provides an artificial constraint on ministries because it encourages them to view
establishment allocations inisolation from other recurrent costs.

120.     The consequences o f the above are that the quality o f restructuring work thus far has been
below what it might have been. The Ministryo f Health i s now being restructured, largely to eliminate
functional duplication and salary discrepancies between the ministry and the health boards. However,
what needs to be considered is that a certain level o f restructuring needs to be almost continuous
within an MTEF framework, with ministries negotiating their budget allocations (including
establishments) and agreed outputs contracts with the MoFNP and within Cabinet, with monitored
achievements having a bearing on this negotiation.

121.     Given the above, there are still areas in which the public service size can be reduced. It
should be noted that studies in the late 1990s based on international comparisons recommended a
public service size o f around 85,000. However, valid arguments have been made for additional
staffing, especially at the service delivery areas in both the education and health sectors. Despite the
reductions highlighted above, there have been problems in sustaining the desired levels o f the public
service as the size has kept fluctuating due to a number o f factors including: (i)   weaknesses in the
management o f the establishment register and the payroll; (ii)    other government institutions such as
provincial and district administrations and local authorities being bloated as they have not yet been

                                               72


restructured to significantly contribute to the reduction in the size o f the public service; and (iii)the
problem o f a bloated public service has been further compounded by lack o f adequate resources to
timely separate those identified as excess andredundant staff.

122.     Under PSCAP, the following interventions were undertaken to address some o f the problems
stated above: (i) completing the restructuring o f central government ministries and institutions; (ii)
enhancing selection and placement practices; (iii)commissioning a study to enhance the public
service social safety net whose recommendations were adopted by government; (iv) developing and
implementing the Payroll Management and Establishment Control Project (PMEC) to improve and
rationalized administration o f payroll and establishment (funded by DFID); (v) reviewed the Public
Service Pensions Act; (vi) updating the existing LAN; and (vii) retooling o f the information
technology and communications (ITC).

123.     Objective: To have staffing complements which are appropriate with their agreed mandates
and affordable in relation to their MTEF ceilings through sustainable restructuring necessary to
rationalize the functions o f all government ministries and institutions.

124.     Activities. Over the next five years, emphasis will be placed on getting the composition o f the
workforce right in individual ministries, institutions and service delivery outlets within the projected
financial resource constraints. In collaboration with sector ministries, priority will be given to the
staffing o f service delivery outlets in the education, health, police and agriculture sectors.         All
ministries will be operating within fixed overall expenditure ceilings that are specified within the
MTEF and, where increases in staff arejustified, the incremental personnel expenditures must not be
permitted to squeeze out RDCs. Otherwise, productivity will fall and services will deteriorate.          In
order to achieve an appropriate size and skill mix, ministries will need to plan ahead and consider a
much broader range o f options including redeployment, retraining, recruitment, attrition, multi-
skilling and productivity improvements. However, the "rightsize" is a moving target and ministries
will need to adapt the size and composition o f their workforces in response to changes in technology
and client needs.

125.     The following activities will be undertaken:

              Development o f a methodology to determine the staffing requirements in key sectors at
              service delivery outlets and district level.     Although new establishments have been
              approved for most ministries based on their restructuring plans, i t is evident that they do
              not adequately reflect the real needs at district and service delivery outlet levels. For
              instance, in the Ministry o f Education, teacher requirements in basic schools were not
              examined during the restructuring exercise. The Ministries o f Health, Education, and
              Agriculture and Cooperatives, and the Police Service will participate in this exercise,
              because o f their size and relevance to poverty reduction. A revisedmethodology will be
              developed and applied in a few sample districts, selected to reflect the diversity o f the
              country, such as population density, degree o f urbanization. The methodology will: (i)
              adopt the ceilings contained within the MTEF for 2005-07 as the starting point; (ii)
              disaggregate these overall expenditure ceilings into district and provincial allocations
              for each ministrybased on agreed criteria; (iii)    allow ministries to plan their workforce
              requirements for the next three years o f the MTEF; (iv) examine critically the existing
              staffing norms and assumptions in use and challenge ministries to link staffing more
              closely to workloads; (v) consider the role o f the private and non-government sectors in
              the provision o f local services; and (vi) assist ministries to develop realistic action plans
              to close the gap between requirements and available supply over the short- to medium-
              term.

                                                  73


                 Development o f revised organization structures for the district and provincial
                 administrations in preparation for the implementation o f the national decentralization
                 policy.' The Organization Design and Systems Unit under MDD will provide advice to
                 the M o L G H and the Decentralization Secretariat to enable the Decentralization
                 Implementation Plan to be executed. Restructuring will be conducted in accordance
                 with the assignment o f finctions in the national decentralization policy.           The full
                 exercise will adopt the standard methodology for restructuring already developed,
                 whilst ensuring that the resulting establishments can be afforded within the established
                 MTEFceilings;

                 Re-examination o f current downsizing strategies with a view to reducing their costs.
                 The action plans which will emerge from revisiting the staffing requirements o f key
                 ministries are very likely to indicate the need for downsizing insome areas o f operation.
                 Natural attrition may be considered an alternative downsizing strategy to compulsory
                 redundancy. Rates o f natural attrition in the public service are relatively high, and are
                 increasing as a result o f the HIVIAIDS epidemic. Natural attrition is less costly method
                 o f reducing human resources than compulsory redundancy. The main disadvantage is
                 that it does not target those jobs and skills no longer needed.               However, where
                 replacement recruitment is not justified, downsizing can be accomplished by abolishing
                 the vacant post. An important effort that will need to be carried out by Government is a
                 cost benefit analysis o f the downsizing efforts to date;

             0   Payment to redundant employees o f their compensation packages promptly. Planned
                 redundancies include the backlog o f 268 staff already identified and retrenchees to be
                  identified inthe remaining three ministries which have yet to be restructured. All future
                 compensation costs will be financed directly through the government budget, and not
                 under this component. Kwacha 60 billion (about US$12.0 million) is budgeted for
                 retrenchment compensation in each year o f the MTEF (2005-07).                  The resources
                  allocated will enable the backlog o f 268 staff identified as redundant to be removed
                  from the payroll in2005.

             0    Development and implementation o f strategies to contract-out non-core services. The
                  aim will be to improve efficiency in the delivery o f these services, rather than simply
                  reducing the costs incurred by government. The following non-core services will be
                  considered: (i) cleaning; (ii)security; and (iii)  transport;

             0    Development and implementation o f an HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation strategy
                  for the public service. In order to reduce the adverse impact o f HIVIAIDS, the national
                  strategy will be adapted for implementation in the public service. Key measures will
                  include the development o f information packages, gender-specific interventions, a
                  medical aid scheme and other workplace programs. The HIVIAIDS policy unit will be
                  located inthe Public Service Management Division;

             0    Development and implementation o f a strategy to create a more gender responsive
                  public service. The national gender policy will be adapted for implementation. A
                  strategy and implementation plan will be developed. Key measures will include the
                  development o f equal opportunities policies and procedures that affect recruitment,
                 placement andpromotion inthe public service;

             0    Development and implementation o f a social protection strategy. An action planwill be
                  developed to implement the recommendations o f the consultancy on "Enhancing Social

'Theimplementationofthe revisedstructures will constitutea key activity in the Decentralizationcomponent ofthe
PSRP.

                                                      74


                      Safety Net Programs."      This will include building capacity to mitigate the adverse
                      effects o f retrenchment. The planwill be informed by a detailed study on the impact of
                      rightsizing on retrenchees; and

                  0   Abolition o f re-entry to the service for separated staff. The practice which allows
                      separated staff to be reengaged, often on contracts, will be abolished.

126.     ExpectedResults:

         1) A public service at national andsub national levels that has a sustainable, efficient and effective
              establishment that meets the government's service delivery goals;
         2) An effective public service HIV/AIDS preventionand mitigation strategy inplace; and
         3) A sustainable social safety net program inplace.

Subcomponent2.2 Pay Reform(US$1.65 Million).
                      -
127.     Status: A closely related challenge to right-sizing is the development and implementation o f an
attractive pay policy, which would enhance the salaries and conditions o f service to motivate public service
workers.

128.     In the past, efforts have been made to enhance salaries and conditions o f service of public service
workers. These, however, have been ad hoc innature and approach andmainly reactive to sectoral pressures.
They have lacked a systematic approach and policy context and lagged behind inflationary trends. The
resultant effect is a pay regime delinked from the market, a demoralized workforce and poor quality of
service delivery. Hence the need for a conducive pay policy as a means o f retracting and retaining quality
staff and motivating improved work performance.

129.     Salaries have fallen in real terms by up to 90% over the past 30 years. The situation prevails where
staff on minimumbasic salaries are thought to take home only 65% o f the monthly food needs for a family
of 6. Naturally staff on these scales must seek alternative sources o f income, which distract them from their
public responsibilities.

130.     A t the top end o f the scale staff commonly receive amounts significantly less than comparable
salaries in the private sector (though there is no necessary guarantee o f a private sector job). For example
ACCA qualified accountants with substantial experience in the public service receive approximately
US$450 per month, but in the private sector might command over US$3,000, although there appears to be
no adequate labor market assessment available. To counter-balance this, a slew o f `hidden' and inequitable
allowances still remain, including for example 300 liters o f fuel allowance that can inflate.a senior
manager's income by as much as 200%. While there may be other job-security considerations for public
servants, the drain o f skills, especially from the health sector, indicates the failing competitiveness o f the
public service.

131.     Although increasing pay is not necessarily a significant factor inraising individual performance, the
current rates clearly make it hard for staff at low levels to concentrate on their responsibilities, while rates at
the top o f the scale are increasingly inadequate to allow the retention o fproperly skilled staff.

132.     In 2001, GRZ commissioned the Valentine Report, and adopted some o f its recommendations in
2002 as the basis o f the Government's Medium Term Pay Reform Strategy (MTPRS). These included the
reduction o f the number o f scales from over 60 to 6, widening grade and increment differentials and the
incorporation o f some allowances in basic pay. I t also proposed a relative decompression o f salaries from
approximately 17.7 to 19.7 in the period 2004-08 and real increases over the same period varying between
16% for those on the minimumbasic salary, to 12% on medium salaries and by around 30% on the top o f
the scale.

                                                       75


133.     However, it appears that currently these increases cannot be achieved. In 2005, ZK343.7 billion
(US$71.6 million) has been identified for salary enhancement (outside normal incremental progression).
This represents a fund o f about 16.4%o f total basic pay and incremental progression. Given that inflation
for 2004 is around 17.5%, it is almost certain that wage increases will be awarded on a percentage across the
board basis, Allocations o f PE fund increases for 2006 and 2007 o f 12.5% and 7.5% reflect the projected
reductions in inflation, and are unlikely to allow for real wage increases.

134.     Inaddition the Government faces significant costs inpayments of housing allowances. The sale of
the GRZ housing stock was off-set by introduction o f a specific housing allowance. As a result it has
incurred additional costs o f around ZK86 billion (US$17.92 million) per annum plus arrears o f
approximately ZK115 billion (US$24.5 million) as o f 2003 which are planned for repayment over the next 3
years. In addition, it i s estimated that the cost o f pension fund recapitalization is over one trillion kwacha
(US$212.8 million).

135.     Possible options for achieving pay increases might have included debt relief, but even HIPC
completion point qualification will not make much immediate difference, since in the past four years, much
o f the debt servicing that may now be cancelled has in any case been covered by additional loans.
Therefore, most o f the benefit has already been realized. This leaves economic growth as the only viable
option for increasing public sector revenue. But while growth rates for the past five years have averaged
5%, it will nevertheless take some time for this to be reflected in government revenue increases that can
finance the required increases.

136.     Consequently, comprehensive pay reform cannot currently be afforded, with the serious danger that
attrition rates will continue, and performance at many levels will continue to be undermined. I t is also
politically difficult for the government not to provide some salary increases as the unions assented to job
cuts in part on the understanding that these would yield wage improvements, especially following HIPC
completion.

137.     Under PSM, the Government will continue implementing the MTPRS including the possibility o f
implementing an improved salary scheme, such as the Selected Accelerated Salary Enhancement Scheme
(SASE), to further enhance salaries o f key technical and professional staff, It is envisaged that the MTPRS
will continue to be the principal guide to practical measures aimed at enhancing pay although adjustments
may be needed to reflect present conditions. A consultancy will also be commissioned to assess performance
o f the MTPRS and to develop a long term comprehensive pay policy that will also linkpay to performance.

138.     While savings arising from the reduced work force may help, these are not considered to be the
principal source o f revenue to improve the salaries and conditions o f service for the remaining personnel,
GRZ plans to mobilize resources through improved fiscal measures and for the cooperating partners to
address the needs for an effective, sustainable and motivated public service capable o f delivering quality
services.

139.     Objectives: The key objectives are: (a) to attract, motivate and retain qualified and competent key
professional, technical, and managerial personnel; (b) to match employee remuneration to job performance;
(c) to enhance public service salaries and conditions o f service (consistent with the resource envelope) in
order to boost morale, increase productivity and reinforce the focus on improved service delivery.

140.     Activities. This subcomponent will:

        Carry out diagnostic work to inform the development o f a comprehensive pay policy. As far as
        possible, the policy should be evidence-based, drawing upon the findings from a number o f
        diagnostic studies, as follows: (i)an employee attitude survey; (ii)a review o f current pay and
        grading arrangements; (iii)a comparative remuneration survey; (iv) an employee attrition and
        retention study; and (v) a review o f employee benefits andpensions;

                                                          76


        Develop a comprehensive pay policy for the public service. The policy should set out the specific
        objectives sought by government over the medium- to long-term and the specific policy measures
        which will be adopted in order to achieve them. The policy measures should be sequenced and
        costed in a phased implementation plan, incorporating short, medium-term and long-term actions.8
        One short-term action, for example, could be the introduction o f some motivation measures to
        prevent the loss o f critical skills inrural areas based on the current Ministryo f Health scheme which
        i s supported by the Netherlands Government. However, it is emphasized that any short-term action
        must be consistent with the long-term direction for pay reform;

        Develop a revised public service pay structure which reflects the pay policy. It is envisaged that the
        revisedpay structure will be founded upon a comprehensivejob evaluation exercise, covering the full
        range o fjobs inthe public service, as well as the results o f both the comparative remuneration survey
        and the employee attrition and retention study. As far as i s possible, the intention is that the new pay
        structure will consolidate allowances with base salaries to provide a fair rate o f pay for each job.
        Government is aware that the costs o f implementing a revised pay structure are likely to be
        substantial, especially in relation the medium-term resource envelope. For this reason, it is very
        probable that the revisedpay structure will need to be implemented intwo or more phases that extend
        beyond the lifetime o f the PSM component;

        Enhance planning and budgeting arrangements for personnel emoluments. The following
        improvements will be made: (i)        using pay policy as a driver for allocating resources to personnel
        emoluments in the budget; (ii)achieving more effective coordination between the Public Service
        Management Division and Ministry o f Finance andNational Planning inrespect o f medium-term and
        annual wage bill planning; (iii)enhancing the capacity for accurate estimation o f personnel
        emoluments; and (iv) improving the effectiveness of the collective bargaining process to ensure that
        settlements are made on time and do not exceed the wage bill ceilings;

        Provide technical assistance to ensure the creation o f a sustainable public service pension fund. The
        TA key activities will include: (i)    development o f modalities for the recapitalization o f the PSPF to
        eliminate the actuarial deficit; (ii)   review o f the regulatory framework to allow new entrants to
        contribute to PSPF; (iii)  establishment o f a members and pensioners database to support planning and
        decision making; and (iii)    integration o f PSPF systems with PEMFA, IFMIS and MTEF to facilitate
        the forecasting, timely and accurate processing o f pensions benefits and development o f a business
        plan.

141.      ExpectedResults:

          1) A sustainable and effective improved salary scheme inplace for professional and technical staff
          2) A comprehensive pay policy inplace
          3) Performance related pay structure inplace.

Subcomponent2.3       - ServiceDeliveryImprovement           (US$11.28 million).

142.      Status: In 1993 when the PSRP was launched, the public service was characterized by poor
discipline, inadequate professionalism and accountability, resulting in poor service delivery. A t this time
the systems in use for managing performance were not hnctioning effectively particularly the Annual
Confidential Report (ACR).         T o address the weaknesses in the ACR, a new performance management
package (PMP) was developed. The PMP aims to link organizational and individual performance through a
hierarchical objective setting process, which translates ministries' strategic plans into departmental work


 No financial provision to meetthe recurrent costs of short-term pay enhancement has been made under the PSM
component. However, Governmentwishes to continue the dialogue with cooperating partnersin order to "leave the
door open" for possible external financial support for an acceptableand sustainable "selective acceleratedsalary
enhancement scheme" at a later date.

                                                       77


plans and then individual targets. At the individual level, a new open and objective annual performance
appraisal system (APAS) replaced the ACR.

143.    However, by 2004 there was little evidence o f concrete improvement in the quality o f service
delivery at the organizational level as a result o f implementing the PMP. This can be partly attributed inpart
to delays in restructuring which kept the old bureaucratic work cultures, systems and processes in place.
But low levels of awareness o f the PMP among public servants andthe lack o f resources to support timely
implementation o f the work plans were also key factors.

144.    Under PSCAP the main interventions undertaken can be summarized as follows:

        0   In2001, APAS was made a requirement for staff confirmations and promotions under circular
            No. B16. In addition, terms and conditions o f service, policies and procedures, and the Public
            Service Regulations were developed to replace the General Orders. All o f these documents
            recognize the use o f APAS;
        0   Senior managers in 19 central government ministries and institutions have undergone orientation
            in the PMP. They were expected to initiate a cascade of the system within their respective
            ministries and institutions, and to ensure its full institutionalization;
            Tailor-made training programs were conducted for directors and other staff to address skill gaps
            identified for effective performance management;
        0   Performance improvement teams have been established in all restructured ministries where the
            PMP has been introduced in order to facilitate and support implementation, and also to spearhead
            implementation o f other performance improvement initiatives.

145.    Whilst there i s evidence recorded o f modest progress in implementing the PMP in some ministries,
the challenge o frolling-out a layered approach to performance management across the entire public service,
which links individual performance to organizational performance, cannot be underestimated. The specific
challenges that have been identified are as follows:

             Making the PMP operational in an environment where releases o f RDCs are delayed and less
             than the approved budget, In these circumstances, ministries and institutions cannot plan to
             achieve specific performance targets with any confidence, and they may need to revise their
             targets inline with actual releases;
             Designing and implementing performance monitoring mechanisms at the organizational level,
             which will include the development o f working management information systems in ministries
             where these do not currently exist;
             Inculcating a work culture that is receptive to the requirements o f performance management.
             Currently, many public servants are not favorably disposed towards the new system because
             they are not fully acquainted with the system;
             Enhancingthe impact o f the PIF by selecting projects that will deliver benefits inthe short-term
             and by redefming the criteria and streamlining the procurement process to ensure timely
             implementation o f identified interventions;
             Removing blockages to improving service delivery which, amongst other things, will require
             ministries and institutions to review their work processes and procedures. Currently some work
             processes and procedures have remained bureaucratic and outdated despite the restructuring o f
             Government ministries and institutions; and
             Implementing capacity building programs to address identified skills gaps highlighted by the
             performance management system (PMS) as well as those identified through training needs
             assessment (TNA).

146.    Objectives: To effectively manage overall performance o f all ministries and institutions within an
agreed framework o f planned objectives and standards, and improve their capacity to deliver better services.

                                                       78


147.     Activities. This sub-component will involve two main elements. First, the development o f an
effective performance management process inministries which starts with the identification o f departmental
results and then aims to link these to specific performance goals for individuals. Second, the provision o f
support and financial assistance to enable ministries to improve their service delivery capacity.
Institutionalizing the first element i s a prerequisite for the second element because it i s not possible for a
ministry to identify how service delivery capacity needs to be improved unless it first understands where
performance and services are deficient. At this stage, i t is only possible to set out the initial steps for this
sub-component. A fuller set o f actions will be determined following the in-depthreview. The activities will
include:

    0    Carrying out o f an in-depth review o f the implementation o f all performance management
         initiatives. The scope o f the review will cover strategic planning, departmental and individual work-
         planning, the APAS and peak performance training;
    0    Development o f a revised strategy and implementation plan for performance management. The
         strategy will describe the improved performance management system, specify how it will be linked
         both to the medium-term budget process and the service delivery improvement facility, and set out
         mechanisms for measuring performance. An approach to implementation will be developed, which
         will incorporate training designedboth to impartnew skills andto change attitudes;
    0    Starting o f the implementation o f the revised strategy. Implementation will be phased realistically
         over the five year period in accordance with capacity and resources. One possible option available
         to government is to pilot the new strategy in a selected number o f ministries, departments and
         institutions;
    0    Implementation o f a flexible facility to strengthen the capacity o f ministries to deliver better
         services. A revamped and expanded service delivery improvement facility (SDIF) will be launched
         which builds on the PIF established under PSCAP Phase I.A priority activity will be to develop a
         revised operational manual for the SDIF. The facility will finance improvements in the service
         delivery capacity in individual ministries that are designed to result in immediate and observable
         benefits for citizens and clients. "Capacity" will be defined broadly to encourage a wide range o f
         interventions that will lead to improved services, such as the re-design o f work processes, training o f
         "front-line'' staff, and the application o f modem technology. Major capitalisation initiatives will not
         be supported.      All ministries will be eligible for support under the SDIF, but resources will be
         allocated to give priority to ministries that provide services directly to the public. Access to support
         and resources by ministries will depend on the progress they are making in implementing key
         performance management processes, such as obtaining feedback from clients through a service
         delivery survey or a customer complaints system;
    0    Buildingmanagement capacity among permanent secretaries, heads o f departments, and managers
         o f service delivery outlets to lead improved performance management processes. Relevant and
         timely training will be conducted when the improved performance management strategy has been
         designed. The training will be integrated with the "roll out" o f this strategy, so that learning takes
         place during implementation. In addition, a retreat for ministers will be organized to examine the
         respective roles o f ministers and permanent secretaries inthe performance management process.

148.     ExpectedResults

         1) Strategic and performance management systems institutionalizedinthe public service
         2) Work processes and systems streamlined inthe Public Service.
         3) Implementationo f the Service Delivery Improvement Facility (SDIF).
         4) Tailor made training and retooling programs developed and implemented for public service
              managers.
         5) Public service delivery monitoringand evaluation systems developed and implemented.
         6) Mechanism for public participation inmonitoringtraining o f public service delivery inplace.

Subcomponent2.4 PayrollManagement and Establishment Control(US$4.85 million).
                      -

                                                       79


149.     Status: Despite the improvements in public service restructuring discussed earlier, there have
continued to be problems in sustaining the desired levels o f the public service because o f weaknesses in the
management o f the establishment register and the payroll.

150.     The high salary bill associated with excess and redundant staff continues to deprive the public
service o f essential operational resources, and consequently undermines the effectiveness o f the public
service to deliver quality services to the people o f Zambia. The high salary bill arising from excess and
redundant staff has been compounded by discrepancies between the payroll and establishment. In order to
maintain the right size o f the public service, there is a need to put inplace an effective service-wide payroll
management and establishment control system.

151.    The development and implementation of the payroll management and establishment control project
(PMEC), supported by DFID, to improve and rationalize administration o f payroll and establishment was
undertaken. PMEC, introduced in 2004, was based on: (i)      an establishment register where the organizational
structure for included ministries and institutions was revised and approved; (ii)       a data cleaning process
where illegal employees in the included payrolls were identified and removed; (iii)a set o f policies and
procedures to be usedby the end users; and (iv) training o f end users and super users.

152.    To date the all payrolls managed by the Ministryo f Finance and Cabinet Office have beenmigrated
to the PMEC system from the legacy system and for these staff it generates monthly pay slips.

153.    The linking o f the payrolls to an establishment register caused initially some troubles in the
implementation o f the system. This occurred where the agreed number o f staff in the establishment and the
number o f staff on the payroll did not match. This included the apparent exclusion of some staff who were
actually being paid legally. Inparticular the teachers union complained that many rural teachers were at first
excluded and had to travel to district or provincial offices to have themselves entered in the new database.
But the net result o fthis will have been a physical check onthose who were outside the system, thus raising
its integrity.

154.     Questions may be raised about the ability o f the system to exclude ghost workers, because no
physical head count has been made and the database does not hold pictures and fingerprints. However, given
theprocedure followed it is likely that the process has managed to identify and exclude a large proportion of
ghost workers. Future linkage with the national civil records (national registration card system) is expected
to improve system integrity.

155.     The system took a considerable amount o f time to install (about years from start until2005) at a cost
o f some US$8 million. The project was however based on and staffed for extensive transfer o f knowledge
andnotjust an acquisition o f a system. This approach extended especially its initial phases inorder to follow
and implement best practice in methodologies concerning specifications and procurement. Given the
geographical spread o f staff, and the decision to raise ownership by depending upon people in government
employment to do most o f the data collection and entry, these elements have resulted in building system
management capacity. Indeed the achievement so far is notable compared with efforts in many other
countries.

156.    Unfortunately the monitoring o f the improvements achieved by system installation has been
piecemeal, and it is difficult to say exactly what savings have accrued from its implementation.            For
example, although ghost workers have been identified, no record has been kept to determine the actual
savings achieved. However, despite these few weaknesses, PMEC has established a firm foundation on
which future payroll and establishment control interventions can build upon.

157.    Although significant progress inthe implementationhas been achieved so far, PMECP i s still facing
a number o f challenges. Among the challenges include:

        0    Lack o f understanding o f PMEC System by key stakeholders poses a serious problem. The
             PMEC System has brought about a significant change in the way the payroll and establishment

                                                    80


           are runand managed. I t has incorporated the Terms and Conditions o f Service as part o f control
           mechanisms. Inaddition, human resource staff are now managing the payroll, unlike in the past
           where Accounting staff took a leading role. This reflects good international practice.
           Lack o f adequate business and technical capacity to manage the PMEC System. Currently,
           government depends on external support to resolve configuration problems. Periodic training is
           crucial for government to obtain maximumvalue from a complex system like SAP.
           Establishing a reliable mechanism for updating the payroll on a monthly basis. There is need to
           ensure that data on the system is updated regularly for the system to provide usehl management
           information.
           Integrating PMEC System with IFMIS is absolutely necessary. PMEC is a part o f IFMIS
           although it is ahead in terms o f implementation. Integrating the two systems will be relatively
           easier and less expensive as IFMIS will be procuring SAP Financials.
           Interfacing PMEC System with thirdparties. These include Commercial Banks, DDAC, Public
           Service Pensions Fund,NAPSA, third parties and the Department o f National Registration.
           Creating the management structure and appointing qualified staff to administer the system and
           provide technical support where necessary. The process o f establishing a separate department to
           manage PMEC System is already underway.
           Strengthening o f the PMEC Help Desk System so that it adequately and competently supports
           users o f the system. The help desk will ensure that all queries and problems are addressed
           promptly to avoid delays.

158.    Objectives:    T o accurately and effectively manage and maintain personnel emoluments and
establishments for the public service to support improved service delivery.

159.    Activities: This subcomponent will:

           Sensitize key stakeholders to effectively manage business change and reduce resistance among
           key stakeholders.
           Buildadequate business and technical capacity to manage and maintain PMEC System. There
           is need to build capacity in several functional areas to ensure that the system i s sustained and
           runs smoothly. Both business and technical areas still require additional training and skill and
           knowledge transfer in order to ensure that GRZ staff can competently manage and maintain the
           system.
           Complete verification o f establishments and staffing in order to roll-out the system across all
           ministries, institutions and provinces. Data cleaning i s a prerequisite to the go-live process and
           it will remain a challenge for the next two to three years.
           Establish a new department to manage PMEC System. PMEC requires to be managed by staff
           that understand the business and supported by technical staff that will ensure that the system is
           running smoothly.
           Contract external technical assistance to support implementation and training activities. PMEC
           will require external technical support services from time to time when the need arises. A
           number o f areas that requires support have been identified and include Personnel
           Administration, Payroll, ABAP programming and basis support.
           Strengthen payroll integrity. Procedures for payroll inputs have been enhanced by ensuring that
           all entries onto the system are properly checked and authorized. Teams will be established to
           carry out physical verification of employees beingpaid.
           Implement additional HR sub-modules. Although the PMEC System i s a SAP HR module, not
           all sub modules are being utilized. Only sub modules that relates to payroll management and
           establishment control are switched on. The reason for not purchasingthe entire SAP HR Module
           at the time o fprocuring the system was the highcost involved.
           Decentralize the IT infrastructure to provincial level. To facilitate remote data capture at
           provincial level, PMECP plans to decentralize data-entry by riding on the IFMIS network.

                                                     81


            Integrate PMEC with IFMIS. There is need to integrate PMEC to IFMIS for government to
            manage its financial resources prudently. Integration will require services o f Consultants
            specialised inintegration o f HR and FinancialModules o f SAP.
         0  Interface PMEC System to other Systems. Interfaces are required to Commercial Banks, Bank
            o f Zambia, Public Service Pensions Fund, National Pensions and Security Authority (NAPSA),
            andthe Department ofNational Registration.

160.     ExpectedResults:

    1) Payroll and establishment effectively managed and controlled at the central line ministry and
         provincial levels through an integrated computer-based systems; and
    2) Rigorous and robust data management policies and practices developed, implemented and used
         according to schedule for all establishment management and control systems.

Sub-component 2.5 -PSMSecretariat (US3.52 million)

161.     Status: The PSM Secretariat will be based in the Cabinet Office and will provide an advisory and
coordinating role in the implementation o f the component. It will be headed by the PSM Director who will
be full-time and be in charge o f the implementation for the period o f the program. The PSM Secretariat is a
temporary mechanism and shall discontinue after activities under the program are completed or integrated
into the GRZ processes. The Director will report to the Secretary to Cabinet. In line with its advisory role
the PSM Secretariat will have no line management functions withinthe Cabinet Office.

162.     The PSM Secretariat will be assigned.to support the various functions in the area o f financial
management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation and information and communications. It will have the
following key staff: (i)Program Director; (ii)  Procurement Manager; (iii)  Finance ManagementIAccountant;
(iv) Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist; (v) Communications Manager; and (vi) Research and Service
Delivery Specialist who would also serve as the SDIF manager.

163.     Objectives: Coordinate, manage and provide support to the implementing units o f the PSM
component so that they effectively achieve the planned results; monitor, evaluate and report to GRZ and
donors on component progress and achievements.

164.     Activities. The PSM Secretariat will be the primary mechanism for managingthe linkages between
the four vertical components. The secretariat will also be responsible for preparing all management and
monitoring reports for the Joint Technical Working Group, the PSM Steering Committee (see the
implementation arrangements), GRZ and donors and will Act as the Secretariat for the PSRP Steering
Committee. The Secretariat will be financed from the pooled resources.

165.     ExpectedResults:

    1) Efficient and effective management o f the component; and
    2) Successful implementationo f activities under the PSM component.

COMPONENT 3 RETRENCHMENTS (US$lO.O million)
                   -
166.     As a result o f the implementation o f the rightsizing efforts, implementation o f PMEC and
operationalization o f restructured ministries, GRZ will need to mobilize adequate resources for paying
separation packages and for implementing a comprehensive Social Safety Net Program to cushion the
impact o f unemployment on those that will be retrenched. GRZ has requested support from its Cooperating
Partners to meet the financing gap for paying severance packages to retrenched staff, The administration o f
the retrenchment activity will be done under the under the Right Sizing Component but the funds will be
kept outside o f the pool. Although the extent o f all the retrenchments cannot be determined fully at this
stage, government has identified the following sectors that will be affected by right sizing activities:

                                                      82


    The Transport and Road Sector. This sector i s already undergoing reorganization under the Road
    Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project supported by IDA. The Roads Department under the Ministry
    of Works and Supply, the Road Safety Department under the Ministry o f Communication and Transport
    and some positions in the Department o f Infrastructure and Support Services in the Ministry o f Local
    Government and Housing have been transformed into autonomous road agencies - (i)Road
    Development Agency and (ii)       National Road Transport and Safety Agency. This process o f hiving off
    some government functions will entail separating all employees under the two departments.            The
    affected personnel and their benefits have been identified and calculated. The costs are estimated at
    about US$8.0 million equivalent.

    The Water Sector. In the interest o f improving service delivery, government reorganized the Water
    Sector by transferring the responsibility and personnel from the Department o f Water Affairs and staff
    from affected Local Authorities (city and district councils), to newly established Water Utilities. The
    Utilities are aimed to be autonomous and self-financing. The affected personnel and their benefits have
    been identified and calculated. The costs are estimated at about US$5 million equivalent.

167.    Other Sources. As part o f the PSRP, Government designed and implemented an integrated Payroll
Management and Establishment Control (PMEC) system. All payrolls managed by the Ministry o f Finance
andCabinet Office have beenmigrated fromthe legacy payroll to the new PMEC payroll system. The basis
o f migrating the records to PMEC was a restructured and approved establishment for each ministrywhich
included extensive and rigorous verification processes. During this process, government identified a number
of employees on the legacy payroll who do not have approved establishment positions on the new PMEC
system. The Government is in the process o f identifying these individuals and the Government will need to
make the following decisions at the end o f the process: (i)re-deploy staff with required qualifications and
skills within the same system, (ii)  remove staff who are no longer in government from payroll, e.g. deceased
or staff who have resigned, and (iii)for those who can not be redeployed, they will need to be separated
from the public service.

168.     The Government has already implementedtwo staffretrenchment phases under the first phase of the
APL. The first phase included over 1,000 employees from Central Government and the second phase
included over 140 employees from the Local Authorities. The total cost o f the retrenchments was US$7.4
million equivalent. The staff was paid using a retrenchment package that was accepted by Government as
well as the staff unions through the collective bargainingagreements. The same package i s also proposed to
be used for this phase o f the retrenchment program and includes the following components:

     0   Terminal Leave - cash inlieu o f leave;
     e   Repatriation - Standard   rates for each category o f staff;
         3 Months gross salary in lieu o f notice; and
     e   Pension lump sum - 2/3 o f total benefits.

169.     Although some employees who will be separated through the hiving o f f o f the government
department will be re-employed by the autonomous road agencies and water utilities, they will still need to
beretrenched andpaid their benefits because their employment status will change.

170.     It is envisaged that the majority o f separations financed will be on a compulsory basis and for the
national interest since the staff affected are inexcess o f Government requirements.

171.     The Government is currently not in a position to fund all the retrenchments that will need to take
place in order for the affected sector to run efficiently. However, the Government has indicated it will make
budgetary allocations to finance some payments o f retrenchment packages in the 2006 budget. The
Government shall also rollover the projections for the payments in the years 2007 and 2008 under the
current MTEF. The other cooperating partners supporting both the PEMFA and PSM components o f the
reforms program are, at this time, unable to provide financial support to Government to meet the cost o f
retrenchment.

                                                      83



172.     While IDA's financing o f severance pay will not immediately contribute to poverty reduction, it will
greatly contribute to poverty mitigation by ensuring that prompt payment o f benefits will provide resources
to help their families address the extreme hardship and poverty.      Secondly, staff retrenchment is the most
critical element in ensuring the successful implementation o f the roads agencies and the water utilities.
Furthermore, it would also ensure that the government is not paying salaries to staff that are in excess of the
established staffing levels. Absence o f a retrenchment program inthe past has been a major constraint to the
successful implementation o f the public service reforms. Without a funded retrenchment program, the
unions would most likely encourage their members to reject the implementation o f the reform program.

173.     It is expected that the main recipients o f the severance payments from all levels within the public
service belong to two categories: (i)
                                    those that would be retiringin the next few years; and (ii) that will
                                                                                                those
be re-employable either in the road agencies or in the water utility companies. No specific analytical work
has been undertaken for these groups at this juncture o f the program but the social impact assessment to be
carried out, which is a condition for disbursements, will provide the information required for this analysis.
Under the earlier IDA-financed program supporting the privatization process in Zambia, an institution called
Future Search was established. This institution is still re-training and re-tooling retrenched and retired from
both private and public sectors. However, tracer studies may also be used to ascertain the absorption rate o f
retrenchees into the labor force. Earlier studies done in Zambia and Mozambique indicate that it i s possible
for a large number o f employees to be efficiently redeployed into the labor force. The study indicated that in
the case o f both Zambia and Mozambique, where unemployment still remains very high, 70% of the
retrenched staff were able to get re-employed or self-employed. It should be noted that the future search
program has also enabled the affected groups to have access to individual counseling with regards to
effective ways for preserving and investing the benefits they receive.

174.     GRZ has indicated that the proposed severance program is a pre-requisite to a successful
implementation o f the PSRP and the smooth running o f the road agencies and the water utilities,
Government has the view that IDA's financial support is essential to complete the retrenchment exercise
successfully.

175.     Objectives: Payment o f Severance Packages to retrenched public servants

176.     Activity. Payment o f the separated staff.

177.     ExpectedResult: Implementation o f an approved establishment and removal o f excess staff from
the payroll.

                                                   84


                                      Annex 5: ProjectCosts
           ZAMBIA: Public Service ManagementProgram-Support Project (PSMP-SP)


                                                     Local          Foreign            Total
                                                                                        (US$
                                                    million         million           million)
 PEMFA
 01.CommitmentControl& FMS                           0.38             0.88               1.26
 02. IFMIS Implementation                            7.71             17.99            25.70
 03. FiscalPolicy & Planning                         0.60             1.39               1.99
 04. Budget Preparation& Execution                   0.22             0.50               0.72
 05. ImprovedDebt Management                         0.15             0.36               0.51
 06. EnhancedInternalAudit & Control                  1.02            2.38               3.40
 07. Better ExternalFinancing                        0.15             0.34               0.49
 08. Legal & Regulatory Framework                    0.29             0.68               0.97
 09. StrengthenedExternalAudit                       2.21             5.15               7.36
 10. EnhancingParliamentary Oversight                0.55             1.29               1.84
 11.AccountingTraining& Regulations                  0.56             1.30               1.86
 12.Public ProcurementReforms                        2.57             6.00               8.57
 13. PEMFA Secretariat                                3.20            7.47              10.67
                                                     19.60           45.74              65.34
 PSM
 01. Rightsizing                                      0.45             1.04              1.48
 02. Pay Reform                                      0.48              1.12              1.60
 03. Performance Management                           3.28             7.66             10.94
 04. Payroll & EstablishmentControl                   1.41             3.29              4.70
 05. ProjectManagement                                1.02            2.39
                                                      6.64            15.50             22.15

 Retrenchments                                        9.70
                                    Sub-Total        35.95            61.24             97.18
                                 Contingencies        1.11             1.89              3.01
                          TotalProgram Costs         37.06            63.13            100.19

Note: The table above provides the cost estimates for the PSMP-SP Program of which IDA will
contributethe equivalent ofUS$30.00 million. IDA'Scontributionsto the PEMFA andPSMcomponents
will be disbursed semi-annually to a FOREX pooledaccount managedby MOFNP based on the agreed
proportionof the fbnding requirements of the work plan. GRZ will maintain a separate special account
for the disbursement under the RetrenchmentComponent as this will not bepooled. Amount allocatedto
Retrenchmentswill notbepooled.




 The amount shown across each componentand subcomponentsin this table represents the net amount (less
contingency). The amounts shown inAnnex 4 for each component and subcomponents are the gross amounts.

                                                     85


                              Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements
                 ZAMBIA: Public Service ManagementProgram-SupportProject

1.      Overall oversight and policy guidance will be provided by the PSRP Steering Committee, a
committee o f the chief executives, chaired by the Secretary to the Cabinet and assisted by a Secretariat.

2.      Implementation o f components o f the public service reform will be overseen by, the PEMFA
Steering Committee (PEMFA SC) and the DSC-FED. These will report directly the PSRP SC and will
ensure that implementing units comply with the policy guidelines mandated by the latter. Both focus groups
will be assisted by a Project Secretariat.        Under the direction o f the PEMFA SC and DSC-FED,
implementing units will be responsible for their own procurement functions such as drafting TORS,selecting
consultants, defining equipment needs, and preparing training plans.

Management and ImplementationArrangements

3.      The PEMFA SC will be chaired by the Secretary to the Treasury. Membership o f the PEMFA SC
includes the Secretary to the Treasury, the two permanent secretaries inthe Ministryo f Finance andNational
Planning, the two Permanent Secretaries at Cabinet Office, Permanent Secretary - Ministry o f Justice, the
Clerk o f National Assembly, the Governor Bank o f Zambia, the Commissioner General - Zambia Revenue
Authority, the Director General - Zambia National Tender Board and the             State Audit Secretary -
Office o f the Auditor General. It will be assisted by a Project Secretariat which will be staffed with a Project
Director, Procurement Manager, Finance Manager, M&E Specialist, Legal Framework Expert and Capacity
Development Specialist. The heads o f these agencies will be responsible for the implementation of their
specific subcomponents o f the program.

4.      The Office o f the Deputy Secretary to the Cabinet in charge o f Finance and Economic Development
will provide high level oversight and backstopping on policy issues in the management of the PSM
Component. The Permanent Secretary (MDD) will be responsible for the day to day management o f the
PSM Component. The Project Secretariat will be responsible for providing technical and logistical support
and backstopping to the Sub-components in order to achieve project objectives and outputs. The Project
Secretariat will be staffed with a Project Director, Procurement Manager, Finance Manager, M&E
Specialist, Communications Manager and Service Delivery Improvement Facility Project Manager.

5.      The implementation arrangements for the PSM shall apply for the third component (Retrenchments)
as the management o f public servants i s the responsibility o f cabinet office.

6.      The PEMFA SC and office o f the DSC-FED will hold separate meetings on a quarterly basis and
will oversee program implementation andco-ordination o f their component's work plans andbudgets. They
will also propose and negotiate contributions by the Cooperating Partners (CP) during its semi annual
meetings with the latter. Quarterly meetings with the CP head of missions will facilitate policy dialogue
with GRZ through the PSRP SC. The latter will also serve as the forum to discuss and review periodic
reports on the implementationo f the program. Specific responsibilities o f the two SCs include: (a) review o f
quarterly reports; (b) review and approval o f annual work programs, budgets, and procurement plans; (c)
review o f agreed performance targets; (d) analysis o f implementation timelines for achieving key outputs by
ensuring that these are achievable; and (e) identification o f critical risks that could hinder efficient
implementation o fproject activities and adoption o f measures to mitigate these risks.

          i                                               1




                                                     I
                                                PEMFA
                                                 Steering
                                               Committee
                                        (Chalradby Secretary to the
                                                l'rcasury)


                                 3


   * Director
          PSMSecretariat

       PrwuremerrtMgn
       Iinance Manager

   **  bl&E Specialist
       C'ummunicittionsR4anagcr
       P1F Manager




Task Teanis for the PSh4 Cunrponeats
1. w.       DI:
2, Pw &efwai
3. PI)4KC
4. PerformanceMaumttjemcnt

                  I

                                                      87


Role of the ProjectSecretariats

7.      The Project Directors o f each project secretariat will be responsible for the day-to-day oversight o f
operations, compliance with procedures, relations with other implementing unitsifocus groups and regular
interaction with cooperating partners including IDA. The main functions o f the project secretariats will be
to: (i)
      provide technical support and advice to implementing units especially regarding procurement; (ii)    act
as the secretariat o f the focus groups; (iii)
                                             compile and prepare work programs, budgets, procurement plans,
etc. based on submissions by task teams; and (iv) monitor project implementation and prepare progress
reports for the SC. To enable the focus groups to perform effectively, there will be monthly meetings with
the project coordinator and task managers (TM). The purpose o f the coordination meetings will be to (i)
review the monthly implementation progress reports prepared by the project teams; (ii)hold the TMs
accountable for delivering on set targets; (iii)  address issues affecting project implementation; (iv) ensure
appropriate linkage in the activities implementedby each project team; (v) submit consolidated annual work
programs, budgets, and procurement plans for review and endorsement to the SC; (vi) review quarterly
implementation progress reports to be presented to the PSRP SC; and (vii) make recommendations to the SC
on how to effectively implement the agreed work plan.

FundingMechanism

8.      Activities under the PEMFA and PSM reforms will be funded by various donors including IDA
through a "Pooled Account". IDA'Scontributions and those from the relevant cooperating partners will be
deposited twice a year inan interest bearingFOREX account maintained by MOFNP at the Bank o f Zambia.
The pooling arrangement is in accordance with the Harmonization Agreement spelled out in the
Memorandum o f Understanding (MOU) signed with the Cooperating Donors on April 1, 2004. Further
details on the funding modalities and flow o f funds are described in Annex 7 (Financial Management and
Disbursement Arrangements) and also in the PIP. IDA will hold a separate account for the third component
dealing with retrenchments as it is envisaged that IDA will be the only institution providing the resources to
GRZ.

9.      The first transfer o f the contributions by the CP will be released after a written request from GRZ at
the beginning of its budget year (or the program for year 1). Inprinciple, the first transfer will cover 50% of
the agreed funding requirements for the year in question. The second transfer will be based on the results o f
the preceding semester andproposed work plan o f the second semester.

10.     Funds will be disbursed on a quarterly basis from the FOREX account to the two pooled local
Kwacha accounts (for PEMFA and PSM control accounts), following approval by the respective steering
committees. Disbursement decisions will be based upon approved Monthly Expenditure Returns indicating
any bank balances, approved quarterly allocation plans and the progress on reform activity implementation
supported by the Program Implementation Progress Matrix.

 11.    Fundingto the Retrenchment special account will be based on the retrenchment plan prepared and
accepted by IDA.

SemiAnnualReviews

 12.     Semi Annual reviews will also be conducted by a Donors Committee (DC) made up o f the Heads o f
Mission or delegated representatives o f the CP. The D C will consist o f three to four members o f the CP on a
rotating basis. The chairmanship and representation of the CP in the Steering Committees will be discussed
and agreed prior to the start o f any implementation year.

ImplementationResponsibilitiesof Sub-components

 13.    Each sub-component will have a task manager who will be responsible for submitting activity
proposals to the PEMFA SC through its Secretariat. The task managers will be drawn from the list o f
senior officers o f the implementing agencies.       The guiding principle in implementing public service

                                                   88


reforms activities is based on the understanding that ownership and management is vested on the
beneficiary institution concerned.

14.     The responsibilities o f the task managers include formulation o f reform strategy within the
implementing institution, based on the overall guidelines; heading the work on designing the reform
program within the component, including definition o f activities and inputs required; proposing budgets
for activities for consideration by the relevant SC, and initiating and overseeing implementation o f all
component program activities.

                                                  89


                    Annex 7: FinancialManagement and Disbursement Arrangements
                   ZAMBIA: PublicService ManagementProgram- Support Project

Background

 1.      The report is a record o f the outcome o f the assessment o f the existing and proposed financial
management arrangements for the Public Service Management Program Support Project. The objective
                                                                           -
o f the assessment was to determine whether the project has in place an adequate financial management
system as required by the Bank's OP/BP 10.02. The assessment was conducted using the guidelines"
issued by the Bank's Financial Management Sector Board on October 15, 2003.          For projects financed
by the Bank, the borrower and the project implementing agencies are required to maintain financial
management systems, including accounting, financial reporting, and auditing systems adequate to ensure
that they can provide accurate and timely information regardingproject resources and expenditures.

Country Issues

2.       The Country Financial Accountability Assessment" (CFAA) on Zambia dated November 2003
overall conclusion was that "there still remain substantial weaknesses and risks within the public
financial management system of Zambia.         ' I`Considerable weaknesses in the areas of budget
management;financial reporting & audit, and procurement. ' "Many of Zambia's public finance laws
and regulations are not enforced. This has led to a breakdown of administrative systems andprocedures
for the control of expenditure. Audit systems that are in place to detect improprieties have been rendered
ineffective due to the lack of follow-up and enforcement of the Auditor General3 recommendations.
 Unfortunately, the lack of sanctions may have only served to embolden those who have been engaged in
improper activities." The challenges faced by Zambia in public expenditure management have been
longstanding and will require targeted efforts as well as a strong degree ofpolitical will to address. The
                                                                                                      'I
IDA projects in Zambia operate inthese poor control environment.        Inthe on going consultations with
the World Bank and the Cooperating Partners (CPs) the Government has indicated that the
implementation o f the Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review (PEMFAR)
recommendations is top priority. In this regard, the World Bank with the CPs is jointly funding the
Government PEMFA Project at the MoFNP to implement the recommendations of the PEMFAR. With
the help o f the World Bank and other cooperating partners Government is trying to address all these
problems o f public finance management and accountability. The PEMFA component o f the PSMPSP is
aimed at implementing the recommendations o f the PEMFAR.

 Strengths and Weaknesses

3.       The financial management system is strengthened by the project using the existing Country
Financial Management System (FMS) which is fully integrated with the Government accounting. This
arrangement will allow the Government to capture and report on all the resources and expenditures.
Besides the existing accounting staff to be seconded to the Project Secretariats at PEMFA and PSM the
units will be headed by relevantly qualified accountants who will report through the Chief Accountants at
the MoFNP and Cabinet Office respectively.




 loAssessment o f Financial Management Arrangements inWorld Bank-Financed Projects: Guidelines to
   Staff, Financial Management Sector Board, October 15,2003.
" TheCFAAwaspartofacomprehensivePublicExpenditureManagementandFinancialAccountabilityReview
   (PEMFAR) carriedout by the Governmentofthe Republicof Zambiawith the support of cooperating partners
   and the World Bank in November2003.

                                                   90


4.      The FMS is weakened by the following:

At ProjectLevel

       The high number o f implementing agencies (5 sub components under PSM and 12 sub
       components under PEMFA) may adversely affect the pace o f implementation especially
       procurement coordination which may affect the flow o f funds to the project;
       The consolidated audit report o f the project may be delayed due to the existence o f the two
       independent Project Secretariats each with independent financial management arrangements;
       Staff composition at each o f the Project Secretariats and the sub component implementing
       agencies without prior experience inimplementing a World BanMDonor funded project; and
       Secondment to the Project Secretariats o f demotivated accounting staff on civil service conditions
       without salary top ups.

At CountryLevel

    e  Poor budgetary procedures resulting ininsufficient and delayed release o f counterpart funds;
    e  The projects are not adequately supervised by Government's controlling officers. There is lack o f
       ownership as projects are seen as BanWDonor projects. There is lack o f compliance and
       enforcement o f existing rules and regulations;
    e  Poor accountability culture and inadequately funded watchdog institutions. Office the auditor
       general and PAC lack adequate resources to operate efficiently; and
    e  Internal audit lack adequate resources to carry out their work effectively.

5.      The measures to mitigate the impact o f these weaknesses are described below and the
implementationo f measures as per agreed actionplan.

ImplementingArrangements

6.      The overall responsibility for the implementation o f all the components under the project lies
with PEMFA SC chaired by Secretary to Treasury and the DSC-FED. These will report to the PRSP SC
andwill ensure that the implementing units comply with the policy guidelines.

7.      Membership to the PEMFA SC includes the chief executives o f the key beneficiaries o f the 13
components'*. The PEMFA SC and DSC-FED will be assisted by two Secretariats housed at MoFNP
and Cabinet Office respectively. The Secretariats will have a full compliment o f staff comprising the
Director, Procurement Specialist, Financial Management Specialist, M&E Specialist. Inaddition the PSM
will have a PIF Manager; and a Legal Framework Expert and a Capacity Development Expert for
PEMFA. The project will be implemented by various benefiting institutions through Component Task
Managers. The Task Managers will be drawn from senior officers o f the implementing agencies. For
more details on institutional and implementation arrangements refer to annex 6 o f the PAD.

FundsFlow

8.      Funds will flow from IDA and other donor^'^ to two pool control accounts in United States
dollars for PEMFA and PSM components, to be maintained by the Central Bank (Bank o f Zambia). In
addition, a Segregated Account in U S Dollars will be opened at the Bank o f Zambia to hold finds from
IDA for retrenchment payments. A t the Secretariat level two Bank accounts inUnited States dollars and
three Bank accounts in local currency (Kwacha) will be opened at a commercial Bank acceptable to IDA
inthe names ofPSM, PEMFA and Retrenchment.




l3DFID, Denmark,the Netherlands, Ireland, Finland,Sweden, Norway,EuropeanCommissionand UNDP.

                                              91


9.     The funds flow is depictedinthe diagrambelow,whichshouldbereadinthe context of the
disbursement arrangementsdescribedherein.


                                                 93


Allocation of Credit

10.      The proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed over a period of five years under the following
categories:

         Expenditure Category     '      Amount inUS                    Financing
                                               $m                           YO
   PEMFA Subprograms                          7.76        To be determined by IDA each fiscal
  PSM Subprograms                             11.09       year basedon approved annual work
                                                          plan & Budget and the contribution
                                                          to the poolby CPs
  Retrenchment Component                      9.70             100% of the amounts disbursed
   Refund nfPPFAdvance                        0.55
  Unallocated                                 0.90
  TOTAL                                       30.0

Staffing

11.      The Secretariat for PSM and PEMFA will each have adequately qualified accountants to work as
Financial Management Specialist to be incharge of the project FMS. The Finance Managers will report
to their respectiveproject secretariat Director administratively and to the Chief Accountants at MoFNP
and Cabinet office for technical direction. The Financial Management Specialist positions can be filled
by externallyrecruited candidates on a competitivebasis, where suitable staff are not availableinternally.
Adequate numbers of accounting support staff will be required at PEMFA and PSM Secretariat. The
Chief Accountants at MOFNP and Cabinet Office will need to realign the responsibilities within their
departments to take on the project demands. Followingthe realignment of duties and responsibilities, it
will be determined whether the accounting departments at MoFNP and Cabinet will require additional
staff to be recruited for the smooth operations of the program. It is hoped that the recruitment of extra
accountingstaff ifrequiredshouldbe complete by project effectiveness.

Accounting Policies and Procedures

12.      The Project will have written manuals (PEMFA and PSM) of financial procedures that will
describe the accounting system, internal control procedures, standards to be followed, basis of accounting
that will be used as a guide for implementationof activities under the project to ensure accountability.
These procedures shouldbe in linewith the Government financial procedures that are beingrevisedbased
on the new Finance Act of 2004.

Internal Audit

13.      According to the Public Finance Act Number 15 of 2004, internal auditing in government is the
responsibility of the Controller of internal audit based at the MoFNP. The Controller seconds staff to
government ministries who report to the Controlling officers in the respective ministries.    There is an
internal audit department at the MoFNP and Cabinet office who shouldprovide the internalaudit function
for the project. However, the staffing levels and operational funding are inadequate for the internal audit
to be effective. Therefore, the Controller of internal audit has capacity limitations to oversee project
implementation. Due to the weaknesses in the internal audit functions, a strong management control
environment is recommended. The Finance Managers should implement a day to day supervision of
accountingfunctions. The internal audit is a sub component under PEMFA where some of the identified
weaknesses are being addressed. With the funding under PEMFA internal audit function to the project
should be able to improve through improved annual work plans. The internal audit is expected to work
collaborativelywith the ExternalAuditors and the M&Esections of the PSMP-SP.

                                                     94


External Audit

14.     An external audit will be carried out annually by the Auditor General (AG), who as outlined in
the Constitution o f Zambia Act 1996, is responsible for the audit o f all Government Funds, though in
practice, because o f capacity constraints, the AG frequently appoints private sector auditors acceptable to
IDA to carry out the audit on behalf of the AG. The auditor will conduct the audit according to
International Standards on Auditing and Terms o f Reference (TOR) acceptable to IDA and the CPs. The
auditor will express an opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements according to the Bank's new
audit policy. IDA requires that the Audited Financial Statements for the project be submitted no later
than six months after the end ofthe year.

15.     Besides, the audit opinion, the auditor will be required to prepare a separate report             to
Management, giving significant weaknesses that the auditor came across during the course o f the audit
that are not reflected in the audit opinion. These may include weaknesses in the internal control systems,
inappropriate accounting policies and practices, issues regarding general compliance with broad
covenants and MOU and any other matters the auditor considers should be brought to the attention o f the
borrower, and providing recommendations for improvements. Like the audit report, the Management
Letter should be submitted to IDA within six months after the year end.

16.     The audit arrangements should be based on the "Guidelines - Annual Financial Reporting And
Auditing For WorldBank -Financed Activities issuedby the Bank on 30 June 2003.
                                                 "



Reportingand Monitoring

17.     Monitoring will be at various levels: Management Committee o f Ministers oversight o f PSRP;
PSRP Steering Committee oversight o f PSM and PEMFA focus groups; PSM and PEMFA focus groups
oversight o f PSM and PEMFA Secretariat; Secretariat's oversight o f the Implementing units; CPs
supervision missions; Joint Technical Working Groups discussions o f technical aspects o f the program;
andthe internal and external audit.

18.     The project will report on the basis of agreed performance indicators in annex 3 o f the PAD. It
was agreed that at the minimum the following reports will be produced by the Secretariat for all
stakeholders: Monthly expenditure returns comparing actual with budgetkommitments; Quarterly input
tracking; Quarterly implementation tracking; Quarterly cash allocation plan; Annual work plans and
budgets; and any other statement as may be prescribed. Furthermore, quarterly FMRs, based on the FMS
generated monthly return, will be produced for the DSC-FED and PEMFA Steering Committees, Joint
Technical Working Group, IDA and other CPs. The FMRs will comprise of; Financial Reports: Sources
and Uses o f Funds (by funding source and expenditures by component and activity) Statement, showing
for the quarter and cumulatively; beginning and ending cash balances o f the program; Physical Progress
Report:    Linking financial information to outputs based on agreed indicators; and Procurement
Monitoring Reports.

Annual Audited FinancialStatements

19.      Inadditionto the quarterly FMRs,the Project will produce annually audited Financial Statements
in accordance with International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) cash basis o f accounting.
These Financial Statements (outline o f the expected contents agreed during negotiations and to be
included in the Financial Procedures Guidelines o f the PIP andjointly agreed to by all stakeholders) will
comprise at the minim~m:'~




l4Guidelines:Annual Financial ReportingAnd auditing For World Bank -Financed Activities, World Bank, 30 June
2003

                                                      95


    a) A Consolidated Statement o f Cash Receipts and Payments which recognizes all cash receipts,
        cash payments and cash balances controlled by the entity; and separately identifies payments
        made on behalf o f the entity by third parties. The presentation should show cash receipts by
        sources and expenditures by main expenditure classifications i.e. categories, components and
        activities;
    b) Significant Accounting Policies Adopted and Explanatory Notes. The explanatory notes should
        be presentedina systematic manner with items on the Statement o f Cash Receipts and Payments
        beingcross referenced to any related informationinthe notes;
    c) A Management Assertion that the funds have been expended in accordance with the intended
        purposes as specified inthe Financing Agreement; and
    d) Any supplementary information or explanations that may be deemed appropriate by management
        to enhance the presentation o f a "true and fair view."

InformationSystems

20.     The two component secretariats will have a computerized financial management system utilizing
the existing Government FMS.

Impactof procurementarrangements

21.     There are no specific procurement arrangements that specifically impact financial management
arrangements

Disbursementand BankingArrangements

22.     Inorder to facilitate the flow o f funds the following accounts willbe maintained:

        0    Pooled Accounts. Two pooled accounts will be maintained at the Central Bank (Bank of
             Zambia) for each component, PEMFA and PSM in United States Dollars. IDA and the CPs
             will deposit funds in these accounts based on disbursement rates to be agreed annually
             following approval o f the annual work planand budget and the contribution to the pool by the
             CPs. After determining each partner's contribution to the pool the deposits to the pool
             accounts will be done semi-annually. The transfer o f funds from the pooled accounts at BOZ
             to PSWPEMFA Secretariat Commercial Banks for program operations will be made on a
             needs basis supported by a schedule o f commitments. The PEMFA Steering Committee and
             DSC-FED will approve the transfer o f funds from the pool accounts based on quarterly
             expenditure returns indicating any bank balances, approved semi annual allocation plans and
             the progress on reform activity implementation supported by the Program Implementation
             Progress Matrix (formats for these reports as in the PIP and MOW. The Commercial Bank
             accounts are a mirror account o f the BOZ pooled accounts which should not carry over any
             balances. A t anytime after the monthly transactions the Commercial Bank accounts balances
             must be Zero. The transfers from the pool accounts should comply with GRZ regulations (to
             be included in the Financial Procedures Manual) for transfers o f funds out o f the MoFNP
             control accounts, which require that quarterly transfers from the PEMFNPSM pool accounts
             shall be properly authorized on sequentially controlled and dated payment orders. No transfer
             o f funds shall be made out o f these accounts other than to PSM/PEMFA program commercial
             accounts.

             The initial release o f funds by IDA into the pool accounts will be based on a consolidated
             financial monitoring report (FMRs) for 6 months activities o f the approved annual work plan
             and budget. A request for disbursements will be made to IDA by filling in Form 1903B,
             Application for Withdrawal. Subsequent disbursements into the pool accounts will be based
             on a semi-annual consolidated FMRs justification o f the expenditure, which must be
             submitted to IDA within 45 days after the end o f each reporting period. The FMRs will be
             accompanied by the following reports: pooled account activity statement supported by a copy

                                                   96


             o f the bank statement; summary statement o f expenditure for contracts above the prior review
             threshold; and summary statement o f expenditure for contracts below the prior review
             threshold.

             Retrenchment Segregated Account. The PSM - Project Secretariat will maintain a
             retrenchment Segregated Account to hold funds from IDA for payment o f severance
             packages to the civil service employees who will be retired as result o f the on going public
             service reforms. Disbursements to the Segregated Account will be dependent upon the
             submission o f a retrenchment plan acceptable to IDA. The report based disbursement method
             will apply. The initial deposit to the account will be an agreed portion of the approved
             retrenchment planfor the calendar year. For subsequent replenishments to the account similar
             procedures for report based disbursement will apply as in the case o f the pooled accounts
             above i.e. Form 1903B, Application for Withdrawal will have to be filled in, supported by
             FMRs for the last six months expenditure justification and forecast expenditure for the next 6
             months from the retrenchment plan for IDA to replenish the Segregated Account.

23.      Disbursement and withdrawal procedures are detailed in the Bank Disbursement Handbook and
the Financial Monitoring Reports: Guidelines to Borrowers. All disbursements will be governed by the
conditions inthe Financing Agreement and the procedures defined inthe DisbursementLetter that will be
sent to the borrower upon the signing o f the Agreement. This will include the remedies available to IDA
in cases of ineligible expenditures made from the Segregated Account (SA), the SA remaining inactive,
andwhen the reportingrequirements are not compliedwith.

24.      Check signing arrangements will follow the two panel system. Details o f this will be included in
the financial procedures manual to be produced by program effectiveness. All Bank accounts will be
reconciled monthly by the Project Secretariats. The Bank reconciliation statement will be reviewed by
designated officials on a timely basis, and all identified unusual differences will be investigated
expeditiously. Control procedures over all bank transactions (i.e.check signatories, transfers, advances
etc.) will be documented inthe PIP which will include a Financial Procedures Manual.

    *8E

     E




    s
    a!i
     Y
     8
     41
    .3
     $

E
.iii
.sC
Y
c,


c,




d
$Y

I


.I
Q
u
a
Q
E
C

                                                   98


SupervisionPlan

26.      Financial management supervision will be carried out jointly by IDA and CPs as part o f the
overall supervision for PSMP-SP. At least 2 supervision missions are expected in a year. The objective
of the financial management supervision i s to ensure the continued adequacy o f the GRZ's FMS
compliance with relevant legal covenants o f the Financing Agreement, and that the proceeds o f the credit
are used only for the purposes for which the Credit was intended, with due regard to economy and
efficiency and also to build the financial management capacity o f the borrower implementing agencies at
MoFNP and Cabinet office. The actual work will include the checking o f conditions o f
effectiveness/disbursements,    review o f the financial components o f the FMRs and the Audit
Reportshlanagement Letters from the external auditors and following up with the project secretariats on
all significant accountability related issues.

                                                      99


                   ZAMBIA: Public Service Management Program-Support Project
                                   Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements


1.       The legal framework for public procurement in Zambia comprises the Zambia National Tender
Board Act (ZTBA) o f 1982, the Tender Regulations (TR), and the Procurement Guidelines. The ZTBA
provides for the establishment o f the Zambia National Tender Board (ZNTB) and the Central Tender
Committee (CTC) in the ZNTB. The tender regulations provide for the establishment o f tender
committees and procurement and supply units (PSUs) inministries, provinces and agencies. Some aspects
o f the regulationsare supplemented byprocurement guidelines.

2.       The World Bank Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) for Zambia was conducted in
2002 with close collaboration o f the government and Cooperating Partners and formed as one o f the
inputsfor the Public Expenditureand FinancialAccountability Report.

3.       The CPAR has identified a number o f weaknesses in the country's procurement legal and
regulatory framework, institutional set-up and procedures. This formed the basis for the procurement
reform action plan under the Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability (PEMFA).
Some o f the measures to be undertaken under the PEMFA include:

         0    Replacing the legal framework with a new Act based on the UNCITRAL Model Law and
              current international best practice;
          0   Excluding executive procurement from the oversight responsibilities o f ZNTB and
              decentralize procurement fully to the procuring entities over a period;
          0   Creating an independent appeals body/ mechanism             within a new Zambia National
              Procurement Authority (ZNPA);
          0   Introducing procurement planning and a contracts register and a procurement filing system;
          0   Re-designing the registration list system; and
          0   Establishinga Professional Procurement Cadre with competitive salaries.

4.       Background. The Public Sector Management Program Support Project (PSMP-SP) comprises o f
two major components namely the Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability
(PEMFA) and the Public Service Management (PSM). A PEMFA Procurement Manual has been drafted
for the PEMFA component to guide its procurement activities. The latter has been reviewed by the
Cooperating Partners (including the World Bank). The PEMFA Procurement Manual reflects relevant
provisions o f the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under TBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated
May 2004; and the Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,"
dated May 2004 respectively. The procurement manual, in particular, follows International Competitive
Bidding(ICB) procedures and methods for selecting consultants (above a specified threshold i.e. whose
short list i s required to be prepared on the basis o f international advertisement) contained in the World
Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and Guidelines:
Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," dated M a y 2004 respectively. For
consistency, GRZ also agreed that the agreed PEMFA procurement procedures will adopted for all
components o f the PSM component.

5.        The general description o f various items under different expenditure categories i s described
below. For each contract to be financed, the different procurement methods or consultants selection
methods, the need for pre-qualification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame have
been agreed between the recipient and IDA in the 18 months Procurement Plan. The thresholds for
procurement methods and prior review for the first 18 months shall be as per Table 8.1 below. The

                                                 100


thresholds shall be reviewed on an 18 months basis based on the performance o f the implementing
agencies.

6.      Procurementof Works

        0   PEMFA-(about 7% o fthe total program funds): The works to be executed under the program
            include civil works for IFMIS, external auditor office and other buildings (enhancing
            Parliament oversight and strengthening accountancy training and regulations).

        0   PSM: Based on the project components, no major works contract involving international
            competitive biddingi s expected. For NCB, the standard bidding documents being developed
            for PEMFA shall be used after a thorough review by DevelopmentPartners.

7.      Procurementof Goods

        0   PEMFA (about 32% of total program funds): This includes supply and installation of
            Integrated Financial Management Information Systems (IFMIS), office equipment and
            vehicles.

        0   PSM: Goods procured under this Project would include information systems and related
            goods, the major package being the additional HR sub modules for the Payroll Management
            and Establishment Control systems (PMEC).

8.      Selectionof consultants

        0   PEMFA (about 30% o f total) Consulting Services and Training will focus on various
            assignments including TA for PEMFAsecretariat, public procurement reform, budget reform,
            debt management, external audit and IFMIS supervision.

        0   PSM: (about 10%): TA studies under the four sub-components, as well as support for a
            revisedPIF

PSMComponent Service Delivery ImprovementFacility(SDIF)

9.      This is estimated at about US$ 10 million. Implementation o f the SDIF shall be on the basis of
streamlined selection and monitoring procedures, inter alia, the guidelines for operation o f the Facility,
including disbursement and procurement for activities supported by the Facility acceptable to the
development partners. The SDIF operational manual has been prepared and i s currently under review by
relevant stakeholders.

Operating costs

10.     Operating costs to be financed by the Program would be procured using the implementing
agencies administrative procedures which are found to be acceptable.

Contract Management andExpenditure Reports

11.     As part o f the Financial Monitoring Reports, (FMR) the Secretariat o f the PSRP SC will
consolidate and submit the six months reports to IDA not more than three calendar months after the end

                                                     101


o f every semester. The FMR should include the status o f (i) implementation of the procurement plan, and
(ii)contract management and expenditures on contracts.

The Agency's Capacity to ImplementProcurement-PEMFA

12.     Procurement Capacity Assessment for all the executing agencies for PEMFAhas been carried out
byA World Bank senior procurementspecialist inFebruary, 2005. The results are summarized below:

     0  Parliament: envisaged component- about US$1.9 million- out o f which US$ 0.8 m for civil
        works, US$0.27 million for office equipment and US$ 0.28 million for consultancy. The main
        finding of the assessment is that the parliament has little experience in donor financed
        procurement and that neither the proposed task manger nor the procurement unit staff has had any
        training in donor/World Bank financed procurement. The procurement unit i s also not yet
        certified by ZNTB.

     0  Ministryof Finance and National Planning(MOFNP)is envisaged to carry out a large portion of
        the procurement activities under the program. It will implement a major part of the PEMFA
        activities estimated at about US$ 67.4 million including goods, works and consulting services.
        The MOFNP procurement unit has had prior experience in donor/World Bank procurement and
        there i s an existing team that i s familiar with Donor/ World Bank procurement procedures.
        MOFNP has been categorized at level C (highest level o f certification) by the Zambia National
        Tender Board (ZNTB).


     0   Office o f the Auditor General (OAG) i s envisaged to manage construction o f 5 provincial offices
         (US$2.0 million), procurement o f office equipment and vehicles and extension (US$0.5 million)
         o f OAG office (design and construction). OAG has little experience in donorhank financed
         projects and does not have a procurement unit for executing the procurement function. A task
        manager has been assignedbut would need to be trained in World Bank procurement and contract
         administration policy and procedures.


     0   Zambia National Tender Board (ZNTB) does not require formal assessment since it i s quite
         experienced and i s the authority for procurement in Zambia.         ZNTB will implement the
         procurement reforms and no significant risk level i s envisaged except the fact that the same
         agency to be transformed shall implement the procurement reforms under PEMFA component
         which i s estimated inthe range o f US$8.8 million.

     0   Zambia Institute o f Certified Accountants (ZICA) will undertake procurement o f civil works
         (US$ lmillion+), office equipment (US$ 0.38 million), consulting services (US$0.28 million),
         training and workshops (US$ 0.3 million). Based on available information. ZICA does not have
         sufficient capacity to execute its component by itself.

Overall procurement riskrating for PEMFA: Average (-).

MainRisk and Mitigation- PEMFA

13.      The main risk identified with several o f the executing agencies (with the exception o f ZNTB and
MoFNP) i s unfamiliarity with international procurement practices. Other risks identified are: (ii)
generally inadequate or little capacity inprocurement planning, monitoring and records management; and
(ii)insufficient or weak experience incontract management.

                                                      102


14.     The actions plannedto address the deficiencies include the following:

    0   In agreement with other CPs, adoption of the World Bank's SBDs and other standard
        procurement documents for ICB procurement until National Standard Procurement Documents
        acceptable to all CP's supporting the program have been developed.
        Prior to negotiationsthe finalization o f PEMFA Guidelineshlanuals, Procurement Monitoring
        Reports and Contract expenditure and Progress Reports and inclusion o f service standards for
        procurement inthe procurement Manual.
    0   Train relevant staff (at least one staff each) indonor/ Bank's procurement.
    0   Employ Procurement service provider consultant.
    0   Prior to effectiveness the finalization o f PSM Guidelineshlanuals, Procurement Monitoring
        reports and Contract Expenditure and Progress reports and inclusion o f the service standards for
        procurement in the procurement manual. As soon as the PEMFA procurement manual i s
        finalized, the same will be adopted under the PSM component.
    0   Submission o f the final draft Procurement Plan for an initial period o f at least 18 months to the
        development partners;
    0   Institutionalization o f annual independent procurement audits by December 31, 2006.
    0   Establishment o f semi-annual reportingrequirements.
    0   Establishment o f a contract performance support system.

The Agency's Capacity to ImplementProcurement-PSM

15.     Procurement Capacity Assessment o f MDD and PSMD have also been carried out in February
2005 as follows:

    0  Management Development Department (MDD): PICU was staffed with a Director, a
       Procurement Manager, Financial Manager, M&E Manager and Internal Auditor. The Procurement
       Manager i s well experienced in donor financed procurement systems and procedures in general
       and the World Bank's in particular. The Procurement Manager has acquired adequate experience
       inprocurement planning, procurement documents preparation, and monitoring the implementation
       o f contracts. The assessedlevel o frisk for MDDis therefore low.

    0  PSMD:The purchasing and supplies unit officer and assistants have CIPS qualification and have
       been carrying out routine small value procurement but lack the experience in procurement
       management and monitoring o f such donor financedprograms.

16.     This shall be on the basis o f streamlined selection and monitoring procedures, inter alia, the
guidelines for operation o f the Facility, including disbursement and procurement for activities supported
by the Facility acceptable to the development partners.

17.     The risk level for the whole program i s assessed as below average.

18.     Risk Mitigation:The Project Secretariat shall execute the procurement function for the PSM
supported by relevant sub-component task mangers. Other measures would be:

    0  Inagreement with other CPs, adoption of the World Bank's SBDs and other standard procurement
       documents for ICB procurement untilNational Standard Procurement Documents acceptable to all
       CP's supporting the program have been developed;
    0  Updating o f relevant staffs knowledge inprocurement and contract administration- continuously;
    0  Institutionalization o f annual independent procurementaudits by December 2006;

                                                    103


    e  Establishment o f a contract performance support systemby December 2006
    e  Adoption o f the streamlined procedures manual for Service Delivery Improvement Facility (PIF)
       prior to effectiveness

19.     LessonsfromImplementationof the PSCAP

     e  Enhancing procurement capacity by seconding staff from ZNTB has been helpful both interms o f
        building capacity and execution of the procurement function. Staff that was seconded to the
        Project under PSCAP i s generally considered to have obtained relevant experience and hence
        PICU suggested that it would be beneficial for the upcoming program to have the same staff
        seconded again.
     e  Based on discussions with some implementing agencies, as regards to Donors'/ World Bank's
        procurement training there i s a general feeling that ZNTB may need to consider giving priority to
        implementingagencies'/Task Teams' relevant staff.
     e  Pace o f decentralization by ZNTB (review o f thresholds and delegation) should have moved
        faster based on assessedlevel o f risk.
     e  The aggregate amount for shopping inthe DCA was just US$lOO,OOO, leading to inefficiency in
        the procurement process. Aggregate amounts by procurement methods are now no longer
        specified inIDA'Scredit agreements (as they are left to the procurement plans).
     e  Workshops for business communities on the requirements o f public sector procurement are
        perceived to have assisted local bidders' competitiveness in public procurement and hence such
        workshops should continue regularly

20.      Procurement ImplementationArrangements. Please refer to the institutional arrangements
for implementation as described inAnnex 6.

     e  PEMFA:Under the PEMFA component, it is envisaged that there will be a project secretariat to
        coordinate, ensure consistency in the application o f rules, quality control, monitoring and liaison
        with the fundinginstitutions. The Ministry o f Finance and National Planning (MOFNP, Office o f
        the Auditor General, Parliament, ZNTB and Zambia Institute for Certified Accountants are
        expected to manage the execution o f their respective components with the support o f qualified
        staff inthe Project Secretariat and procurement consultants/ procurement service provider.

     e  PSM: Under the PSM component, it is also envisaged that there will be a Project Secretariat to
        coordinate, ensure consistency in the application o f rules, quality control, monitoring and liaison
        with the funding institutiords. The secretariat will greatly facilitate implementation and enable
        the procurement function to be effectively executed with minimumtraininghpdating. In addition
        to managing the PSM component, the Project Secretariat will help to continue to build capacity in
        MDDand PSMDto mainstream these functions inthe longer termperiod.

21.     Procurement Plan. The procurement plan derived from the detailed work plans has been
prepared as an implementation tool for project implementation which provides the basis for the
procurement methods. This plan for the first 18 months o f the Project has been agreed between the
Borrower and the Project TeamKOoperating Partners AND i s included in the PIP. It will also be made
available inthe project's database and inthe World Bank's external website. The procurement plan will
be updated in agreement with the project t e a d cooperating partners annually or as required to reflect the
actual project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

22.     Training, workshops, conference attendance and study tours will be carried out on the basis o f
approved annual programs that will identify the general framework o f training and similar activities for

                                                        104


the year, including the nature o f traininghtudy tours/workshops, the number o f participants, and cost
estimates.

23.      Contract Management and Expenditure Reports. As part of the Financial Management
Report (FMR), semi-annual progress reports will be submitted to IDA not more than three calendar
months after the end o f each semester. The FMR should include the status o f (i)implementation o f the
procurement plan, and (ii)    contract management and expenditures on contracts.

24.      Procurement Supervision. Cooperating partners will carry out procurement review and the
World Bank will issue "No-objections" on their behalf for ICB related procurement. Monitoring and
evaluation o f procurement performance would be carried out for procurement during IDNJoint
supervision missions (frequency o f procurement supervision missions proposed i s once every 6 months)
and through annual ex-post procurement audits. At a minimum, 1out o f 5 contracts will be subject to post
review. In addition, post-reviews o f in-country training will be conducted from time to time to review the
selection o f institutions/ facilitators /course contentdtrainees andjustifications thereof, and costs incurred.

25.      Annual independent technical audits would:

    0   Verify that the procurement and contracting procedures and processes followed for the projects
        were in accordance with the Development CreditAgreement (DCA);
    0   Verify technical compliance, physical completion and price competitiveness o f each contract in
        the selected representative sample;
    0   Review and comment on contract administration and management issues as dealt with by
        participating agencies;
    0   Review capacity o f participating agencies inhandling procurement efficiently.
    0   Identifyimprovementsinthe procurement process inthe light o fany identified deficiencies.

Contract Award DisclosureRequirements

26.      Contract awards done through ICB procurement method shall be consistent with Paragraph
2.60 o f the Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, May 2004. Within two weeks
of receiving the World Bank's "no objection" (acting on behalf o f the cooperating partners) to the
recommendation o f contract award, the Borrower shall publish in UNDB online and in dgMarket the
results identifying the bid and lot numbers and the following information:


        0  name o f each bidder who submitted a bid;
        0  bidprices as read out at bidopening;
        0  name and evaluated prices o f each bidthat was evaluated;
        0  name o f bidders whose bidswere rejected and the reasons for their rejection; and
        0  name o f the winning bidder, and the price it offered, as well as the duration and summary
           scope o f the contract awarded.

27.      Contract Awards done through Direct Contracting procurement method shall be consistent
will Paragraph 3.7 o f the Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,May 2004. After
the contract signature, the Borrower shall publish in W D B online and in dgMarket the name o f the
contractor, price, duration and summary scope o f the contract. This publication may be done quarterly
and inthe format o f a summarized table covering the previous period.

28.      Contract Awards for Consultancies shall be consistent with Paragraph 2.28 of the Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, May 2004. After the award o f

                                                          105


contract, the borrower shall publish in WDB online and in dgMarket the following information: (i)
names o f all consultants who submitted proposals; (ii)       technical points assigned to each consultant; (iii)
evaluated prices of each consultant; (iv) final point ranking of the consultants; and (v) name o f the
winningconsultant and the price, duration, and summary scope of the contract.

29.     The same information shall be sent to all consultants who have submitted proposals.

30.     Contract Awards for Selection Based on the Consultants' Qualifications (CQS) shall be
consistent with Paragraph 3.8 o f the Guidelines: Selectionand Employment of Consultantsby WorldBank
Borrowers, May 2004. The Borrower shall publishin UNDB online and indgMarket the: (i)                   name o f the
consultant to which the contract was awarded; (ii) price; (iii)
                                                        the            duration; and (iv) scope of the contract.

31.     This publication may be done quarterly and in the format o f a summarized table covering the
previousperiod.

                 Table 8.1 Thresholds for Proci rement Methods and Prior Review
                              -
                                                                                         1
                                                             Procurement Method            Contracts Subjectto
                                                                  ,  . d                      Prior Review"
     Works             >= 1.0million                       ICB                             All contracts
                       >=50,000 - 4 . 0 million            NCB                            None
                     I AHvalues
                       <50,000                              Shopping
                                                           Direct contracting            I Nonecontracts
                                                                                           All
     Goods           I >=250,000                           ICB/LIB/UN                    1 All contracts
                       >=30,000 - <250,000                 NCB/LIB/UN                      None
                       < 30,000                            Shopping/UN                     None
                       All values                          Direct Contracting              >=1,000
     Consulting        >= 100,000 firms                    QCBS                            All contracts
     Services          Below 100,000, firms                QCBSILCSISFBISBCQ               None
                       >=50,000 individuals                Individual                      All contracts
                       < 50,000, individuals               Individual                      None
                       All values                          Single-Source Selection         >=1,000

     ICB      -   International Competitive Bidding            QCBS    -   QualificationsiCostBased
                                                                           Selection
     NCB          National Competitive Bidding                 LCS         Least Cost Selection
     LIB          Limited International Bidding                UN          Procurementbv a UNAeencv
     SBCQ     --- Selection basedon Consultan; Qualifications  SFB     --- Selection unde; Fixed Bidge;

                                                                             106


  Detailsof the ProcurementArrangementsInvolvingInternationalCompetition
  As per the 18 months agreedprocurementplans:


                                                                                          Estd.                     Prior or        Expected

                        Description*                            PackageNo.     Lot                                                    Bid-        Date of
                                                                               No.     Amount in     E::iod
                                                                                          us$                        g::,,,         Opening      Delivery
                                                                                                                                      Date



PMCEP Equipment up-grading to improve the help desk and
additional identified HRmodules                                 ZNTB 3        1            265,770   ICB            Prior          14-Feb-06     19-Sep-06

Various Goodsand equipmentto support SIDF initiatives;
See Note 1 below                                                ZNTB 9        several     7,395,000   ICB           Prior          15-July-06    17-Feb-07




Supply delivery and installation of hardware and software for
IFMlS(prequalification required)                                FMA 0         1        20,000,000    ICB           Prior           24-Jan-06    30-Jan-09
Supply delivery and installation of office furniture equipment
and software                                                    FMA 1         Iand2      1,876,200   ICB           Prior           09-Dec-05    I-Jun-06




                                                                                  1                 1              1              1            1            1
  Consulting Services
                                                                                                                                    Expected
                                                                                     Cost Estimate     Selection    Prior/Post      Proposal      Expected
                                 Description of the assignment                       , ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ; a rMethod
                                                                                                         s            Review       SubEYdon     C         o    ~   ~




 13     Secretariat- Short term adviserslTA FinanceSpecialistx 36 months                 180,000          IC               Prior    21-Jam06       Dec-08

 14     Secretariat- Shortterm adviserslTA Procurement Specialistx 36 months            162,000           IC               Prior    21-Jan-06      Dec-08
        Secretariat- Short term adviserdTA Monitoringand Evaluation Specialistx
 15     36months                                                                        252,000           IC               Prior    21-Jan-06      Dec-08
        Secretariat - Shortterm  adviserdTA Planning and Financial Management
 16     Legal and Regulatoryx 36 months                                                252,000            IC               Prior    21-Ian-06      Dec-08
        Secretariat- Shortterm adviserdTA CapacityDevelopment Specialistx 36
 17     months                                                                         252,000            IC               Prior    21-Ian-06      Dec-08

                                                       107




37    Service Delivery Improvement FundSpecialists              162,000     IC        Prior   I-Jan-06   Dec-08


  32.       The Project's activities for the first 18 months o f implementation are presented in detail in the
  procurement plan that was agreed between the Cooperating Partners and GRZ. The detailed plans are
  shown inthe PIP.

  33.       ICB Contracts estimated to cost above US$l,OOO,OOO for works and US$250,000 for goods per
  contract and all Direct contracting>=US$lO,OOO will be subject to prior review by IDA.

  34.       Consultancy Services estimated to cost above US$ 100,000 per contract and Single Source
  selection of consultants (firms) for assignments estimated to cost above US$l,OOO will be subject to prior
  review by IDA.

  35.       Short-lists composed entirely of national consultants: Short-lists o f consultants for services
 'estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract may be advertised locally and composed
  entirely of national consultants.

                                                      108


                               Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis
                  ZAMBIA: PublicServiceManagementProgram-SupportProject

1.       The PSMP-SP supports public service reforms and capacity buildingto improve the performance
o f key public institutions in implementing a number o f specific public expenditure management and
public service reforms. Thus, much o f the return on investment under the PSMP-SP will be in the form o f
better performing public institutions that employ financial and human resources in a transparent and
accountable manner to implement the policies o f the GRZ and improve service delivery to the population.

2.       The project i s expected to contribute significantly to improved economic management by
promoting transparency and accountability in the management o f public resources, and increasing
efficiency through deconcentration o f key public finance functions. Specifically, the project will have a
positive economic impact by supporting: (i)the implementation o f a series o f public financial
management reforms in budgeting, public expenditure, procurement and auditing; (ii)the improvement
o f ministries' performance through the integration o f strategic planning, the implementation o f annual
work plans, performance appraisal of senior public servants and the MTEF framework and results; and
(iii)continuing support to the restructuring of public sector institutions through ongoing decentralization
initiatives. Improvement inbudget execution, public procurement and public service audit capacities will
contribute to a reduction o f the fiscal deficit, an improvement o f the predictability and flow o f allocated
budget resources to GFU policy and service delivery priority programs and activities, and an
improvement inthe quality o f public expenditures.

                           109



ZAMBIA: Public Service ManagementProgram- Support Project
            Annex 10: Safeguard PolicyIssues


                      (Not Applicable)

                                                     110


                 ZAMBIA: Public Service ManagementProgram- Support Project
                           Annex 11:Project PreparationandSupervision


                                                       Planned                  Actual
PCNreview                                          March4, 2003             April 4, 2005
InitialPID to PIC                                  April 14, 2005            June 9,2005
Initial ISDS to PIC                                April 14, 2005            June 9,2005
Appraisal                                           July 18, 2005         November 7,2005
Negotiations                                       August 15,2005        November 16,2005
Board/RVP approval                                October 27, 2005
Planned date of effectiveness                      January 1,2006
Planned date of mid-term review                     January 2007
Planned closing date                               December 2010

Key institutions responsible for preparation o f the project:

Ministry of Finance and National Planning (specifically the Accountant General's Department, Planning
Department, Budget Office, Investment and Debt Department, Internal Audit and Control Section,
Economic and Technical Cooperation Department), the Ministry of Justice, the Office o f the Auditor
General, the Parliament, the Zambia National Tender Board (ZNTB) and Zambia Institute o f Chartered
Accountants (ZICA), and the Cabinet Office (specifically the Public Service Management Division
(PSMD) and the Management Development Division (MDD).

World Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:

Name                                               Title                            Unit
PatriciaPalale                 Task Team Leader                                    AFTPR
Ross Worthington               Senior Public Sector Mgt.Specialist                 AFTPR
Reynaldo Castro                Operations Specialist (Consultant)                  AFTPR
Tesfaalem Gebreiyesus          Senior Procurement Specialist                       AFTPC
Fenwick Chitalu                Financial Management Specialist                    AFTFM
Nelia Dinkin                   Program Assistant                                   AFTPR
EdithMwenda                    Senior Counsel                                      LEGAF
Modupe Adebowale               Senior Finance Officer                             LOAG2
Adrian Fozzard                 Peer Reviewer                                       LCC2C
Richard Cambridge              Operations Adviser                                  AFTOS
Soheyla Mahmoudi               Finance Analyst                                     LOAG1
Mushiba Nyamazana              Economist                                           AFTP1
Gert Van Der Linde             Peer Reviewer                                      AFTFM
Piet Van Heesewijk.            Peer Reviewer                                       ECSPE
Helen Mbao                     Social Development Specialist                       AFTH1
Harry Garnett                  Consultant                                          AFTPR
MaureenMwikisa                 Team Assistant                                     AFMZM
BernardMyers                   Senior Public Sector Mgt. Specialist                ECSPE


IDA funds expendedto date onprojectpreparation:
     1) World Bank resources: $86,000
     2) Trust funds: none
     3)  Total: $86,000

                                                 111



EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
    1) Remaining costs to approval: (see table below)
    2) Estimatedannual supervision cost: $130,000


                                    FY06                     FY07                    Total
   Preparation Stage              BB                        BB                      BB         TF
                                                                  -
Prep appraisal                                --         - I         -  1     I    I          1    -    1
AppraisaUNegotiations        60             40    ---    - I         -  1 --- II hnI      401 -          I
Supervision                  20              10         85       45           '
                 Total       80             50    --   85        45       --

                                         112


                          Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
            ZAMBIA: PublicService ManagementProgram-Support Project


1.  PCN
2.  Joint AppraisalReports- PEMFA andPSM
3.  TOR'Sof Joint Appraisals
4.  Minutes of discussionswith GRZ
5.  GRZreform priorities document
6.  HarmonizationinPracticeMoUand matrix
7.  PID
8.  Safeguards
9.  PSCAPPAD
10. PSCAPProjectCompletionReport- GRZ (outstanding)
11. PSCAPICR-World Bank(due December 31,2005)
12. PeerReviewerscomments
13. Minutesof PCNmeeting

                                                                    113


                                Annex 13: Statement ofLoans and Credits
                             ZAMBIA: PublicService ManagementProgram                      -Support    Project


                                                                                                                        Differencebetween
                                                                                                                        expected and actual
                                                               Original Amount in US$Millions                              disbursements

Project ID   FY    Purpose                                   IBRD       IDA       SF       GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.   Orig.     Fm. Rev'd

PO71985     2004   Zambia  - RoadRehabilitationMaintenance     0.00     50.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      49.07      0.00        0.00
PO80612     2003   EmergencyDrought RecoveryProject            0.00     30.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      22.37    28.85         0.00
PO70962     2003   Copperbelt Environment                      0.00      19.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      41.38     -0.59        0.00
PO03248     2003   HIVIAIDS (ZANARA)                           0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      46.75     -2.52      -2.01
PO57167     2001   TEVET                                       0.00     25.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      23.61     -1.90        0.00
PO70122     2001   Regional Trade Fac. Proj.- Zambia           0.00      15.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      II.75      6.06        0.00
PO03227     2001   ZAMBIA RAILWAYS                             0.00     27.00      0.00     0.00     0.00       2.99      2.05        0.00
                   RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
PO50400     2000   PUB SVC CAP (PSCAP)                         0.00     28.00      0.00     0.00     0.00       8.33      7.85        0.00
PO64064     2000   MINETOWNSHIP SERVICES PROJECT               0.00     37.70      0.00     0.00     0.00      20.54     17.38        0.00
PO63584     2000   Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF)             0.00     64.70      0.00     0.00     0.00      33.33     10.83        0.00
PO03249     1999   Basic Ed. Subsect. Inv. Pgr                 0.00     40.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      16.26     16.75        3.49
PO03236     1998   ZM NATIONAL ROAD                            0.00     70.00      0.00     0.00     0.00       9.47      9.66        0.11
PO35076     1998   Zambia POWER REHAB                          0.00     75.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      22.85     22.87       10.00
PO40642     1996   ERIPTA                                      0.00     23.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      11.71     -5.90       -5.90
                                                                                                                                     ~

                                                      Total:   0.00    504.40      0.00     0.00     0.00     32041     111.39        5 69




                                                               ZAMBIA
                                                        STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                      Held and DisbursedPortfolio
                                                        InMillionsof US Dollars


                                                               Committed                                   Disbursed
                                                              IFC                                         IFC
        FY Approval   Company                      Loan       Equity     Quasi     Partic.   Loan       Equity      Quasi     Partic.

        1998          AEF Amaka Cotton              1.30       0.00        0.00       0.00      1.30       0.00     0.00        0.00
        2001          AEF Chingola Htl             0.81        0.00        0.00       0.00      0.81       0.00      0.00       0.00
        1998          AEF Drilltech                0.12        0.00        0.15       0.00      0.12       0.00      0.15       0.00
        1999          AEF Esquire                  0.19        0.00        0.00       0.00      0.19       0.00      0.00       0.00
        1997          AEF JY Estates               0.89        0.00        0.00       0.00      0.89       0.00      0.00       0.00
        2001          AEF Michelangelo             0.19        0.00        0.00       0.00      0.19       0.00      0.00       0.00
        2000          APC Ltd.                     0.95        0.00        0.00       0.00      0.95       0.00      0.00       0.00
        1972          Bata Shoe ZA                 0.00        0.19        0.00       0.00      0.00       0.19      0.00       0.00
        2000          MarasaHoldings               4.05        0.00        0.00       0.00      4.05       0.00      0.00       0.00
        1998          NICOZAM                      0.00        0.10        0.00       0.00      0.00       0.10      0.00        0.00
        1999100       Zamcell                      I.65        0.44        0.00       0.00      I.65       0.44      0.00        0.00

                                  Total portfilio:  10.15      0.73        0.15       0.00     10.15       0.73      0.15        0.00

                                          114


                                                Approvals PendingCommitment
  FY Approval Company                       Loan      Equity     Quasi   Partic.




~~    ~


                Total pending committment:   0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00

                                                                  115


                                                  Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                         ZAMBIA: PublicService ManagementProgram                            -Support          Project
                                                               Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Saharan    Low-
                                                     Zambia   Africa  income
2002
Population,mid-year(millions)                           0.5      688     2,495                     Lifeexpectancy
GNIper capita (Atlas method, US$)                                450      430
GNI(Atlasmethod, US$ billions)                                   306     to72

Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population (%)                                            2.1     2.4       19
Labor force (%)                                          2.6      2.5      2.3       GNI                                      Gross
                                                                                     per                                    primary
M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                             capita                              nrollment
Poverty(%of populationbelownationaipovertyiine)           73
Urbanpopulation (%of totalpopu/ation)                     40       33       30
Life expectancyat birth(years)                            37       46       59
Infant mortality(per 1OOOiivebirths)                      It? 05            81
Child malnutrition (%of childrenunder5)                   24                              Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwatersource (%ofpopulation)          64       56       76                                                     I
illiteracy(%of populationage t5+J                         20       37       37
Gross primaryenroilment (%ofschool-agepopulation)         78       86       95              -Zambia
   Male                                                   80       92      0 3                      Low-income group
   Female                                                 76       80       67

KEY ECONOMIC RATiOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                               1982    1992     2001    2002
                                                                                      Economic ratlos'
GDP (US$ billions)                               3.9     3.2      3.6      3.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP                    8.8     119     20.0      8.O
Exports of goods and services/GDP               27.7    36.4      27.1    29.3                          Trade

Gross domestic savingslGDP                       8.0     0.3      9.8      3.8
Gross national savingslGDP                        11    -0.6      5.4       0.1

Current account baiance/GDP                     -14.5                                 Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                            2.2      3.1      10       3.1       savings                           investment
Total debt/GDP                                  94.7   20.6      155.8    147.1
Total debt service/exports                      32.0    28.9      P.0     45.5
Present value of debt/GDP                                        'ro.9
Present value of debt/exports                                   373.7               I                 Indebtedness
                                    1982.92 1992.02    2001     2002 2002.06
(averageannualgrovdh)
GDP                                       11      1.5    4.9      3.0       4.1              ---Zambia

GDP per capita
       .    .                            -19     -0.9    2.9       13       2.1                       Lowincomegroup
                                                                                                                                   3


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                               1982    1992     2001     Zoo2       1 Growth o f investment and GDP (%)            1
(%of GDP)
Agriculture                                      #.9    23.8      22.1     22.0       2o

Industry                                        39.0    49.0      25.6     26.3       ,o
   Manufacturing                                20.6    37.2       111      116
Services                                         46.1   27.2      52.3     517         o

Private consumption                             64.3    64.7      77.2     84.4      -H)
Generalgovernment consumption                   27.7     15.0     0.0       11.7
Imports of goods andservices                    36.5    48.0      37.3     43.5                 ----GDI         -GDP


                                            1982-92 1992-02     2001     2o02       1 Growth   of exports and imports (%)          I
(average annuaigrovdh)
Agriculture                                       16     4.2      -2.4     -4.1      40
industry                                          2.0    -2.7      9.2      113      20
   Manufacturing                                  5.7     18       4.2      5 8
Services                                          0.3     3.9      4.9      3.2

Private consumption                               2.7     0.8     -3.6      4.4     -20

Generalgovernment consumption                     14     -5.3     44.7     -119     -40
Gross domestic investment                        -3.8     7.5     15.9     -7.6
Imports of goods andservices                     -14      2.6     27.2      3.5             ----Exports        d l r r p o r t s

                                                           116


                                                                                                                      Zambia

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                         1982  1992    2001    2002        j Inflation (%)                                     h
Domestic prices
(%change)
Consumer prices                                 197.4    217     22.2
Implicit GDP deflator                      6.1  165.6    24.3     19.7

Government finance
(%of GDP,includes current grants)
Current revenue                                  18.4     19.1    18.O                97     98      99      00       01
Current budget balance                           -6.9    -0.5     -15
Overall surplus/deflcit                         42.6     -t3.0   .0.9                  ----GDPdeflator        -CPI

                                                                           'i0"TI
TRADE
                                         1982  1992    2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                               Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                             la0      884      945
 Copper                                          867     504      520
 Cobalt                                           t35      86      39
 Manufactures                                      62    203      2 0
Total imports (cif)                             $302    1253     1204
 Food                                            258       13       11
 Fueland energy                                   53     220      247
                                                                                                                               I
 Capital goods                                   349     460      325

Export price index(s95=WO)                         81      65      60                98    97    98    99     00

Import price index (W95=WO)                        92      67      88                     Exports
Terms of trade (W95=WO)                            88      74      68                                    m l ~ o r t sO1   O2



BALANCE o f P A Y M E N T S
                                         1982  1992    2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                Current account balance to GDP (%)

Exports of goods and Services            1,044  1204     1058    1,081
Importsof goods and services              1291  1,586    1625    1,602
Resource balance                         -247   -383     -567     -521

Net income                               -399   -328     -no      -144
Net current transfers                      -28    -33     -20        7

Current account balance                   -561

Financing items (net)                     623
Changes innet reserves                     -63    -76     -115    -187

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)                             306
Conversion rate (DEC,locaUUS$j             0.9  78.9   3,613.9 4,398.6

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1982  I992    2001    2002         I
(US$ millions)                                                               Composition o f 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandinganddisbursed       3,665  6,709    5,671   6,459
  IBRD                                    346    289        l7       I1
  IDA                                       P    643     1.869   1979

Total debt service                        334     361      P9     505
  IBRD                                      43    137       0        7                                                6 1,979
  IDA                                        0      6       P      26

Compositionof net resource f l o w
  Official grants                           69   642       271
  Officialcreditors                        776    149      P1      -l7
  Private creditors                         57    -0       54      -P
  Foreigndirect investment                  39     45      72
  Portfolio equity                           0      0        0

World Bank program
  Commitments                               61   263       40        0
  Disbursements                             27    7 4      P6      a 3      j ::;:ED                               E- Bilateral
                                                                                           D-Otherrmltilateral     F-Rivate
  Principalrepayments                       B      72       t3      18        C-IMF                                G- Short-teri

                                                       117


                                Annex 15: Triggers for PhaseIto PhaseI1
         ZAMBIA: Public Service ManagementProgram-SupportProject(PSMP-SP)
1. PAYREFORM
Substantialprogress made in implementing the monetization of benefits available to Civil Servants.

Cabinet approved the Medium Term Pay Reform Strategy (MTPRS) in August 2002 that would decompress pay
within an agreed establishment wage bill target.     However, this policy was not implemented as planned. The
decompression took place (13: 1from the previous 8:9:l), the wage bill rose to 8.9% o f GDP. The Government
                                                           but
accepted this overrun and has put in place a number o f measures to manage the process. Among other things,
stringent measures have been put inplace to manage the restructuring o f the separations program required to bring
the wage bill down and Cabinet approved a new lower wage bill target o f 8.1% which was achieved.


The Government i s now taking the steps necessary to bring the wage bill down to agreed levels. Inthe short term,
some o f the key steps include:
i) Enhancing the linkbetween the payroll and establishmentthroughunique postcodes. This is being done
     through the Interim Establishment Register that has been created under the initial implementation o f the
     PMEC. The register is being used to clean the employee data base by ensuring that only employees in
     approved positions are migrated to the new PMEC system.
ii) Apartfromthefreezeonanynewrecruitment,anycriticalrecruitmenthastobecentrallyclearedbythePublic
     Service Management Division (PSMD). Inthis regard, PSMD i s only approving applications for authority tc
     employ that relate to replacement o f deceased employees, those dismissed or those that exit the service and
     this i s upon confirmation that they have been removed from the payroll and that the positions exist in the
     approved establishment and if it was budgeted for. All applications to fill posts that have been vacant foi
     sometime are being rejected.
iii)Othermeasuresincludetheabolitionofsittingallowancetoofficersattendingmeetingsduringworkinghours
     This is contained in a circular referenced C0.101/25/1 dated 25" June 2004 issued by the Secretary to tht
     Cabinet to all controlling officers.
iv) Finalizing the processing and paying o f separation packages for already identified excess staff and redundan
     staff and to remove them from the payroll. The Government i s using both funds from the treasury and unde
     PSCAP to undertake this exercise.

Some o f the achievements made under the MTPRS include the following:
i)
 '   Automatic entitlement o f Directors and other eligible staff to Government duty vehicles and running expenses
     has been withdrawn. Implementation guidelineshave been worked out and effected. A monitoring mechanism
     has been put inplace to ensure compliance.
ii)TeachersSpecialEducationAllowance, whichwas30%oftheirbasicsalary, wasabolished. Teacherswith
     special education qualifications were put on a higher salary notch.
iii)Otherallowances, forexampletheRuralHardshipAllowanceforemployeesservingatprovincialanddistrict
     levels, uniform upkeep, tools allowance, extra duty, commuted overtime, were rationalized as from lSt   April
     2003 while others, for example the Funeral Grant are to be replaced by a contributory scheme. Rural hardship
     allowance that was paid to Classified Daily Employees (CDEs) has been merged into the salary.
iv) In accordance with PSMD Circular B1 o f 2004, Government has with effect from 1'' January 2004, in line
     with the MTPRS, merged about 14 allowances payable to Police and Prisons Service personnel into the salary;
     namely: Grade, Coxswain, Equitation, Mental, Theatre, Fingerprint, Protection Unit Kilometer, Body Guard,
     Armourer, Bandsman, C.I.D., Instructor, Shift Patrol, Uniform and Ferrier allowances.
v) As part o f the recommendations under the MTPRS, and in line with the MTEF, Government will from 2007,
     move towards having unified salaries. This however, is subject to negotiations with Public Service Unions..
vi) The following allowances for ministerial and parliamentary offices were consolidated into utility allowance;
     postal, motor vehicle, medical, entertainment, drivers and secretarial allowances.
vii) All conditions o f service have remained unchanged since the year 2003. This means that the nominal value of
     fixed allowances compared to the salary has gone down inreal terms.

                                                      118



Allowances merged into pay
Fixed term contracts negotiated with all Principal Secretaries
All Principal Secretaries are now employed under three year contracts. Work to develop performance related
contracts has been completed and the consultancy report has been reviewed by a committee o f Principal
Secretaries. An implementation plan is currently beingprepared for consideration and approval by the Secretary to
the Cabinet.
Salaries of key technical andprofessional staff increasedas laid out in theMedium Term Pay Reform Strategy
The Government has continued implementing the measures put inplace to manage the wage bill as indicated in(1)
above.

In spite of the challenges encountered with the wage bill, Government has made progress, within its capacity,
towards this target since the Cabinet approved the MediumTerm Pay Reform Strategy:
i) From1'' April2003,thesalariesofkeyprofessionalandtechnicalstaffwereincreasedbyanaverageofalmost
     100%whereas those o f non-key staff were increased by 35%;
ii)Salaryscaledecompressionstartedon1"April2003whentheratiotoptobottompayratesincreasedto13:l
     from the previous 8:9:1;
iii)InlinewiththeMTPRS,thesalarygradingstructureofthecivilservicewerereducedfrom25gradesto6
     grades while the number o f increments within each grade were increased from 5 to 8; Protective Services
     Salary (PSS) scales have been introduced for the Police, Prisons, Immigration and fire fighting personnel with
     effect from 1" April 2004 as recommendedunder the MTPRS thus replacing the PF, PS and PTS salary scales;
     and
iv) Government is undertaking periodic payroll cleansing exercise and if this results in savings on PE then
     Government shall continue with its efforts to enhance salaries o f key technical and professional staff.

2. ESTABLISHMENT AND PAYROLLCONTROL
Effective payroll and establishment control system in place, with no ghost workers, no ghost allowances, and no
retrenched staff returning to the civil service
The implementation o f the computer-based Payroll Management and Establishment Control (PMEC) system has
reached an advanced stage. The data cleaning exercise i s now a routine exercise, which has helped to ensure a
close linkage between the establishment and the payroll.

The following are the notable areas:

i) Allpayrolls,exceptthatoftheMinistryofHealth,arenowonPMEC.
ii)Datacleaninghasnowbecomearoutineexercisefortheenduserstrained. TheEndUsers,whoarecharged
     with the responsibility of managing the payroll areas on the system, are drawn from the Human Resources
     (HR) andAccounting cadres.
iii)Asacontingencymeasure, atotaloffortyone(41) supportstaffdrawnfromHumanResourcesInformation
     and Planning (HRIP) and Centralized Computer Services Department (CCSD) have been training to ensure
     that EndUsers are adequately supported. Cabinet approved the setting up o f a separate department to run the
     PMEC system.
iv) Sensitization workshops were conducted for all key stakeholders, key among them being Principal Secretaries,
     Chief Executive Officers, and Heads o f Departments in ministries, institutions and provinces. The workshops
     are aimed at: (a) disseminating information o n the operation o f the PMEC system; (b) impact analysis o f the
     management o f payroll and establishment; and (c) management o f excess staff that have remained on the old
     payroll for the areas that are live.

Measure to control illegal employees,allowances and re-entry
In addition to the routine data cleaning exercise the PMEC system has other built-in measures that are aimed at
ensuring that ghost workers and illegal allowances are completely eliminated, and that there is no re-entry of
retrenched employees on the payroll.

i)illegalemployeesandallowances

The organizational structure and conditions o f service (business rules) as defined inthe Establishment Register and

                                                           119


 Terms and Conditions o f Service respectively make up the foundation o f the PMEC System. The organizational
 structure is the control that ensures that only employees with authorized positions are allowed on the PMEC
 System. Unlike the old system which had no link with the establishment and therefore it could not prevent illegal
 employees getting on the payroll, the payroll on the PMEC System i s driven by the establishment.

 On the other hand the terms and conditions o f service are the inbuilt business rules that ensure that employees get
 authorized allowances. The old system had no means of validating allowances and as such allowances were given
 to employees who did not deserve them. The PMEC System has defined allowances according to positions, salary
 scale, qualification, station as part o f the business rules. For example, only employees in a station that i s classified
 as rural areas are eligible to get rural hardship allowances. Other allowances such as recruitment and retentions are
 now being according to the condition o f service.

 Other controls on the PMEC System are being enforced by the fact that the SAP is a date driven system. There is
 no more overpayment on such allowances as acting because the period has to be defined and once the period
 elapses, the allowance i s automatically dropped. The PMEC System i s not paying any abolished allowances such
 as equitation, theatre, production boarding master, etc that were o n the old system.

 Before the 14 payrolls areas went live, the PMEC Team ensured that only employees on authorized establishment
 were migrated to the PMEC System. All the remaining payroll areas that expected to go live before the end o f the
 year will be subjected to the same process. Similarly on allowances, the inbuilt controls (defined business rules)
 are applied once the payroll area i s migrated to the PMEC System.

 It is difficult to come up with the substantial savings on the illegal employees and allowances at this early stage
 considering that only about 4,000 employees are on the PMEC System. However, a more comprehensive and
 accurate estimates o f savings will be known once all the payrolls areas are live. Moreover,, benefits are already
 being seen such as terminations that took long on the old system are now been done on time by the newly trained
 End Users considering that delays in terminations account for the largest number o f illegal employees on the
 payroll.

 The EndUser drawn from the HumanResources (HR) and Accounting cadres are now responsible for their payroll
 areas with the HR taking a prominent role. They are responsible for ensuring that all employees that are retired
 deceased, resigned and dismissed are terminated from the system o n time. End users are now aware that i j
 terminations are not done o n time, the system will not allow them to transfer, promote because the PMEC Systerr
 will mark such positions marked as occupied. In addition, a group o f Super Users are monitoring End Users tc
 ensure that they performtheir duties diligently and don't abuse the system.

 ii) re-entry of retrenched employees into the Public Service

 The PMEC System will be used to perform some verification on retrenched employees but who decide to returnto
 ensure that they don't find their way back on the payroll. The verifications will be performed against terminations
 records on the system. According to the PMEC System operational requirement, all the terminations records will
 be archived for a period o f ten years.


 3. FINANCIALAND POLICY MANAGEMENT
IMedium Term Expenditure Framework will replace Cash Budget as the basis for disbursement in the fiscal yea,                  1
 that includes the final year o f the Project Phase I

 As reported inthe last update, this trigger has been met. The MTEFbasedbudget for 2004-2006 was the first one
 to be implemented and the 2004 budget was the first MTEFbased budget.
 i) TheretooledABBsoftwarehasbeeninstalledinallMinistriesandmovinces.Thisenabledministries and
      provinces to prepare their 2005 budgets from their stations.
 ii)ThedetailedreviewoftheMTEFprocessreportedinthelastupdatehasfacilitatedthedevelopmentofthe
      2005-2007 MTEF and the 2005 budget. The Green Paper i s currently undergoing consultations and comments

                                                     120


     from the consultative process are being incorporated inthe budget.
iii)Sensitizationandtrainingprogramshavecommencedforofficersatdistrictlevel.

All proposals withJinancial implications made to Cabinet over thepast year cleared by the Ministry of Finance
and National Planningfor concurrence with the budget agreed under the MTEF

All Cabinet memos have a statement that the Ministry o f Finance and National Planning has cleared the memo
before it i s taken to Cabinet. The linkage between Cabinet and the budgeting process has been strengthened as
Cabinet in general and the Estimates Committee in particular is involved throughout the budgeting process under


Furthermore, strong institutional ties between Cabinet Office, (through the Policy Analysis and Coordination
Division and the Management Development Division) and the Ministry o f Finance and National Planning have
been strengthened as the MTEF Team spearheading the development o f the MTEF includes representatives from
Cabinet office Both institutions are committed to ensuring that future policy and other proposals forwarded to
                                                            -             - .             -  -
Cabinet are grounded inthe budget and MTEF.
4. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENTAND ACCOUNTABILITY

2001 end-of-year financial statements for the seven ministries piloting- the Performance Improvement Fund ready
for review b; Auditor General within six months

This trigger has been met. The Auditor General report on the audit of Government accounts was for the first time
tabled two days (2gth December 2003) before the deadline (3 1'' December 2003).

                                                 121


              Annex 16: Letter of DevelopmentSector Policy
ZAMBIA Public ServiceManagement Program- Support Pro,dct (PSMP-




        2BmOctober ZOOS

        Mr. Goband T. Nankanl
        Vice Presidenf Africa Region
        Wodd Bank
        W T E D STATES OF AMFRIC4
        Washington,DC


        DcarMr N d a n i
        -
        RE! &ETTFROF DEVELOPMENTSEWOF(

         I.    INTRODUCTION
              I, In 1883, the Governmentlaunchedthe Public SeWlCe Reform '
                    Programme (PSRP) withthe goalof strengtheningthe effectiveness,
                    efflclency and quality or sewices dellvefed by the Public Servlce.
                    This was to be achleved by amongst ovler things, restructunng
                    Minlstries end Provinces, Introducing Improved Performance
                    ManaQement and Human ResouEe Management systems and
                    decentralizingfunctionsfromcentralto distdctand other lower levels.


                2.  In October ZOda the Government started implementing the Public
                    Service Capadty Building Project (PSCAP), which was designed to
                    give impetus to the Implementationaf the PSRP.


                3.  m e objective of the PSCAP was to makepublicservicesdelivery
                     instrumentsand processesmore effective and efiicient In order to
                    facilitate economicgrowthand reduce poverty The purposeof
                             P
   -               -PSCAP




   ~ 6 %
       ChlnwolKcad,     ~ h+z60 I2Sj4263, ~~LSDIBI,
                            .                    pa: Z%DI, r u r W m o f n o . 0 0 ~enwQ.rnt.rO~e&mwmt-m
                                                                                     ~

                                      122




     was thereforeto transform public services delivery processes Intomore
      effective afid effident systems.


4. Since the transformation of the Public Service was expected to take
    almost a generation, the progremme was designed as a thirteen-year
    (13) Initiative, but Phased. Phase 1, wes to last three years, and its alm
    was to put in place the baslo systems aimed at changing the way
    Governmentconductsits buslness.Phase2, whichwas expectedto last
    five years, was to focus on rollingout, throughoutthe Public Service,the
    systems developed and piloted under Phase 1. During Phase 2, the
    rolling out of systems was expected to bring about signifcant
    improvementsin Public Services delivery, Phase 3, which was also to
    last five years, sought to institutionalizeperformancemanagement and
    promote continuous improvements through whlch the new systems of
    delivering services that are needed to promote economic growth and
    alleviate poverty would be applied, their impact monitored and the
    appropriateadjustments madeto make them even moreeffective.


5. The developmentobjectlve of PSCAP Phase 1was to design and begin
   to implement the critical systemwiUe reforms that would support

  . rationalizing
    improved PuMic Services dellvery.              These reforms included:
                  staffing particularly in the core civil servlce; reforming pay;
   introducing more effective management of payroll and estabilshment;
   developing and adopting the Medium T e n Expenditure Framework
   (MTEF); Improving flnanclai management systems, accountability and
   transparency; improving the administrationof Justla;and strengthening
   policy management. The first phase also sought to support efforts
   almed at Implementing Initiatives that would bring about immedkte and
   observableimprovements Inservicedelhery.

                                                  +Q-

                                 123




IL RECENTDEYELOPmNTSUNDERPUBLICSERVICEREFORM
   PROGRAMME(PSRP)

    PayReform

    6. The Government developed and adopted a Medium Term Pay
       Reform Strategy (MTPRS) in 2002.         The Government started
       Implementing the strategy through monetising of some benefits
       available to Clvll Servants; placing a11 Permanent Secretaries on
       medterm contracts; beginningto enhancesalaries of key technical
       and pmfesslonai staff as well as decompressing and streamilning
       the salary structures. Ruleshave been establishedIndetermining
       the actual monetaryvalue of employee emoluments and all of the
       tools were put in placefor managementto controland maintainthe
       slze of the publicservice,andthe size of the associatedwage bill.


    Establishmentnnd payroll control

   7. The Government has put in place an Integratedand computerized
       payrolland establishmentcontrolsystem that providedforthe
       needs of the right-slzlngprograms. The systemhas signficantly
       enhancedQovemment'scapacityto effectivelymanageboththe
       payrolland the establishment. This has ledto a reductlohinthe
       numberof ghostworkers and Illegalpayments of allowances

  Financia[ andPolicyManagement

  8. The Government developed and adopted P MediumTerm
       ExpenditurnFramework(MTEF)for planningand budgetlngwhich
       startedwith the 2003 budget. The MTEF has started providingthe
      basisfor all disbursementsfrom the treasury. Policyproposals    ,
      that havefinancialimplications are no longerconsldefedby 1    A

                                124




         Cablnetwithoutdearancefromthe Ministryof Financeand
         National Planning(MOFNP)andin concurrencewith the
         budgetsagreed uponunderthe MediumTerm Expenditure
         Framework. Computertechnologywas introducedto improve
         managementof and acwss to Cabinet and poky
        documentation. In additlon, protocols, systemsand ptOG3dUreS
        at the Ministryof LegalAffairs for developingand renderinglegal
         opinion on policy proposals havebeencompleted


Financial Management and Accountabnity

9.   The Governmenthas also made some significantstrides Infinancial
     management through puttingin place a culture of timely auditlngof
     annual Government statements. The commitmentcontrol system
     has also been strengthenedresulting in reduction in anears. Two
     key institutlons namely the Ofiice of the Auditor General(OAG)and
     the Zambia National Tender Board (ZNTB) have put in place the
     operational framework and management culture within which
     transparency and accountability can flourish.       In addition, the
     capacity of Government to undertake public procurement was
     enhanced and vlls led to the beginning of decentralizing public
     procurement, Improvement of systems and enforcement of
     procurementstandards. Itis expectedthat these achievementswill
     be further strengthened by the implementation of the Public
     ExpenditureManagementandFinancialAccountability (PEMFA).

TninhgFor SeniorManagers

IO. Governmentcommissioneda consultancy to design and piiota
     Senior ManagementDevelopmentProgramme. The programme
                                                                    w i
     was pilotedthrough conductingtrainingfor close to hundred(100)
     Senior Managers. The ttainingdld involve among other Issues,


                                                                   J         B

                                  125




   equlpplngSeniorManagerswith skills to strategicallymanage
     Ministr3esllnstAutions.

Service Delivety XmprovemcatAclivitiu Under the PSCAP

11.   A total of forty-five (45) projects were supported with a view to
      demonstrating Immediate and observable sewlce delllety
      Improvement. Close to haK of these projects. were rated by
      independent consultants to have been very successful. Further,
      Government continued with Its efforts to inculcate the Work
      Planningand OpenAppraisal Systeminthe managementof human
      resources. This new culture was Introduced In ail restructured
      Ministriesllnstltutions

Judicial and Legal Reforms

12.   Government made some strides In implementing the Judicial
      reformsthrough undertaking physicalImprovementsto a numberof
      courts. The physical Improvements has led to the creeUon of
      conducive workingenvironmentand contributedto the motivationof
      employees. In sddltlon, A number of human capacity building
      interventionswere Implementedfor the Legal Practitionersalthough
      Government experienced some brain drain after tralning due to
      unattractiveoondltionsof service.

DecentratisationPolicy

13.   In 2002 Government finalissd and adopted the National
      DecentialisationPolicy(NDP). The Implementationof the Policy is
      to be gulded by a Strategy andAction Plan, which Iscurrently being
      developed.

                                           126




DivestureofNon C o n Functions andEnhancemento f Private Sector

Pnrtielp&n

14,    Duelimitationsin resources underPSCAP, Government deferredMe               ,

      planned activities that were to focus on diversifying some noncore
     functions from Government.            Further, It was also decided that the
      enhanwment of the private sector participatlon would be tackled under a
      separate and distinct Initiative, the Prlvate Sector Development (PCD)
      Initiative, has beendeveloped andadopted.


Identificationo f the three Pillars o fthe PSRP

15.   In 2003 Governmentprepareda comprehensive StrategyandAction Plan
     for carrying forward me implementstion of the PSRP.             Government
     presented the Strategy and Actlon Plan to the Cooperatlng Partners in
      September 2003. ,Following $e presentation an agreement was reached
     that Government needed to focus on key priority areas of the reforms. In
     this regard, it was further agreed lhat the next phase of the PSRP would
     focus on three priority areas namely: Publlc ExpenditureManagement and
      Financial Accountabllity (PEMFA), Right Sizing and Pay Reform and
     Decentralisation.

   m. TRENEXTSTEPS               FORTHEPSRP

           16.     By implementingvariouspolicyactlonsthrough the three pillars
                                                                                 ~




                   of the reforms, Government hopes to improve the capacity of
                   the Public Service to deliver better 8ervIces and effectively
                   contribute towards poverty reduction. In this regard, the key
                   challenges that the Government Is facing In ensuring a
                   transparent and accountable public sector are: (i) that the
                                                                       P
                   budget and prucurementsystems require greater transparency

                                             127




                 and effectiveness; (ii) further Improvement In accountability and
                 transparency in the use of public funds; (iii)effective rightsizing
                 of ministries and agencies based on organizational functions
                 and the budget envelope prescribed by the MTEF; (Iv)
                 lrnplementlngsustainable pay reforms that include incentlves to
                 attract and retainskilled and professionalstaffin key sectors; (v)
                 ensuring that a decentraliation strategy is implemented In llne
                 with the capaclty of central government agencies to support it
                 and the 8bSOrptiVe capacity of local govemments to undertake
                 effective service delivery, The focus of the PSRP over the next
                 five years will therefore, be to dealwith all these challenges.


       17.   The overall objectlve of the PSRP stili remains to improve public
             sector effldency and effectiveness to facilitate economic growth
             and reduce poverty. In thls context, the focus of the PSRP over the
             next five (5) yean shall be to strengthen and Increase efflciencies
             in the legal, accounting and admlnistrative frameworks for public
             expenditure management, pubnc service management and
             decentrallzetlon.

       18. The PSRP strategy clearly articulates Government's intentions and
           commitments to public sector capaclty building in Zambia comprising
           three pillars identified by the Government of the Republic of Zambia
           (GRZ) as its key public sector management reform prloritiesnamely:
           (i)  PEMFA (Public Expenditure Management and Financial
           Accountability); (11) PSM (Public Sector Management); and (hi)
           Decentralization.


IV,    COMPONENTSOF THE PSRP FORTHE NEXT FNEYEARS

                                                           F
The objective, rnaJoractivities, and expected outputsfor the three priority areas
of the PSRP over the nextfive years are outhne below:

                                              128




       Component 1: PEMFA: Publlc ExpenditureManagement and Flnancial
       Accountability
       19.   The overallobjective of this componentis to strengthenand increase
             efficiencies inthe legal, accountingandadmlnlstrativeframeworksfor
             public expenditure management.The major activity under this
             componentwill be to develop, pilotandrollout the IntegratedFlnancial
             Management Systems (IFMIS). The other activitiesIncludebudget
             reforms, strengthening internalcontmis,rtkngthenlng the regulatory
              frameworkfor the accountancy profession and lnstitutlonallzlng
             transparentpubllc procurement


          20. The results to be achleved under this component are: (i)impmved
               financial accountability through IFMIS implementation In all
               ministries; (ii) Improved Budget management and execution; (iii)
               strengthened internal public expenditure management cantrols; (iv)
               [mplementatlonof an harmonized legal framework for transparency
               and accountabllity; (v) strengthened Parliamentary and external
               oversight of public expenditure management; (VI) strengthened
               regulationof the accountancy professlon; and (vli) lnstitutlonalization
               of a transparent, accountable and efficient public procurement
               systemin line ministries.

    Component2: PSMPublic ServieeManagemem

    21.   m e objedive of this componentIsto strengthen and increaseefficlencles
          in publicservice management. The PSM componentof the PSRP has
         four sub-components as follows:



                                      (1)      The Right Sizing    -   Which shall
                                               bring about appropriate structures




--            __   .

                              129




                                  and slze in line with the agreed
                                  mandates of Government Mlnlstries
                                  and institutions which are affordable
                                  Inrelationto budget ceilhgs;
                         (I[)     Pay Reform     -  Which shall relate
                                  remunerations to 'the jobs         and
                                  performance, ensure attradion and
                                  retention of    essential staff, re-
                                  enforce Improved service delivery,
                                  and restrict pay increase within me
                                  resourcesenvelopes;
                         (iii)    Performance Management -Which
                                  shall ensure that Ministries and
                                  Institutions  manage performance
                                  effectively and ultimately improve
                                . service delivery: end
                         (iv)     Payroll       Management           and
                                  Establlshment Control        -  Which
                                  shall     ensure    that     personal
                                  emoluments and establishments for
                                  the Public Servlce are effectlvely

                       I          managed and maintained at agreed
                                . levels.

Component3: Deccntralkation

22. The objective of this component of the PSRP Is to strengthen and
    improve Public Servlce dellvery through decentralizing some
    functions and strengthening the Local Government system. A
    detalled Strategy and Action Plan that WiJl facllltate plloUng and
    implementation of the National Decentrallzation has been drafted.
    It Is envisaged that a separate multi donor supported Initiative shall

                             130




    be put in place to support the implementation of the
    Decentralisatloncomponent

V   PROGRAMMEMANAGEMENTAND MbNITORING

    Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

23. The Policy guidance durlng the implementationof the PSRPwlll be
    provided by the Public Service Reform Program (PSRP)
    Management Committee, and Committee of Ministers chaired by
    the Minister of Flnance. There is a discussion within Government
    to strengthen the Committee; and operational guidance by the
;   PSRP Steerfng Committee, a committee of PermanentSeaetaries
    and Chief Executives, chaired by the Seuetary to the Cablnet.
    Focus groups involving representation from key stakeholderswill
    be established for each component to revlew Issues and provide
    necessaryadvice.

  VI  CONCLUDINGREMARKS

  24  The Credltto supportthe PSRPimplementationwill help meet
      Zambia's external financing needsfor the yeaf s 2006 to 2010,
      support macrc-economicreformfurther and reducepovertyas
     well as contrlbuteto the attainmentof the Mlllenniurn
      DevelopmentGoals (MDQs). IDA'SasslslanceIsSlso essential
     in helpingmobilhlngGovernmentsupportfrom other donors. The
     Governmentis committedto implementingthe reformswith the
     supportof the Cooperating Partners. This is svldencedby the
     fact that in the recent Past Governmenthas gone ahead to make
     progress on the HarmonisailonIn Practice(HIP)processand
     Consequently,signeda MemorandumOf Understanding(MOU)
     with its CooperatingPartners. Inthls regard, andas an examle,




                                                              I

                             131




          the Government has developed both PEMFA end PSMInitiative as

  .      joint process with the Cooperating Partners, and already the MOU
          was entered Into for the PEMFA and another is expected to be
          signed for the PSM. It Is ais0 worth noting that Government's
          commitment to refonns has been demonstmted, through the recent
         attainment to the HiQhiyIndebted Poor Country (HIPC) Completion
         Polnt and the progress made on the Poverty Reduction Budget

      '  Support (PRBS).

Your3 sincerely




Ngsndu P. Magande,MP
MINISTER OF FINANCEA h NATIONALPLANNING


                           22E                                                              26E                                                            30E                                                                 This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                             Lake                                                                 World Bank. The boundaries,
             8S                                                                                                                                      Tanganyika                                                                  colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                           To        TANZANIA                     on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                Sumbu                   Sumbawanga
                                                                                                                                                   Kaputa                                                                         Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                                                                           Mpulungu                                               or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                         Lake                                                                                     a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h
                     ZAMBIA                                                                                                             Mweru             Lake                    Mbala                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To              boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                         Mweru                                                  Mbeya
                                                                                                                                                        Wantipa
                                                                                                                                             Nchelenge           Mporokoso
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Mwenzo
                                                                        DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                    OF CONGO                                                      Kawambwa                                                 Mafinga Hills Karonga
                                                                                                                                              LUAPULA                                                       (2301 m)

                                                                                                                                                              Luwingu                  Kasama

                                                                                                                                                                 N O R T H E R N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To                    Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Mzuzu
                                                                                                                                                                Lake
                                                          To
                                                          To                                                                                                                         Chambeshi                                                      Malawi
                                                       Caianda                                                                                 Mansa            Bangwelu

                                                                                                                                                       Samfya
                                                                       Mwinilunga                                                                                         Kope


             12S                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                            To                                                            Mpika
                                                                                             Solwezi                     Lubumbashi          Chembe                                                                                                        12S
                                                                                Chisasa                                                                                           Mts.              Luangwa

                                          To
                                          To                                                          Mutanda                                                                                            Mwanya
                                       Lumbala                               N O R T H -                             Chingola       Mufulira

                                                                           W E S T E R N                                                  To Mokambo
                                                                                                                                   Ndola                          Muchinga               Mfuwe
                               Chavuma                                                         Kawana              C O P P E R -                            Serenje                                                  MALAWI
              ANGOLA          Lungwebungu
                                       Zambezi                        Manyinga     Kasempa                              B E L T
                        To
                        To                                                                                                                                                   Chisomo              Chipata                                                     MOZAMBIQUE
                     Lutembo                                                                                                                           Mkushi
                                                                  Kabompo                           Lunga
                                                                                                                             Kapiri Mposhi                                           E A S T E R N
                                                               Bus   a n g a                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                           C E N T R A L                                                                Lilongwe
                                                                                                                                                                                 Petauke
                                            Lukulu                S wa m p                                      Kafue                                                                            Katete
                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                     Old Mkushi                                             Furancungo
                                                                                                Lubungu                  g a  Kabwe
                                                                                                                                                                                Nyimba
                                                                  Kaema                                                                             Machechete                                 MOZAMBIQUE
                                                                                                                                                     (1488 m)
                                Kalabo       Zambezi                                                             Lukan
                                                                                                                 Swamp                                              Lunsemfwa


                                                                       Luampa                                    Mumbwa                            Rufunsa

                                                     Mongu                                                                                                   Kaulishishi
                                                                                                                                      LUSAKA                                                                     ZAMBIA
                                                                                                                                                              (1420 m)        To
                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                  Mavua               W E S T E R N                          Namwala       Kafue                            LUSAKA                       Cahora Bassa

                                                                                                                 Mazabuka           Kafue                    Luangwa

             16S       To
                        To      M u  l o n g a        Senanga              Kataba                                                                                                                                  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                     Chiume        P la i n                                                                                        Chirundu        To
                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                 Harare
                                                      Sitoti                             S O U T H E R N                                                                                                           PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                Shangombo                      Malundano                                                             Kariba
                                                                                                                     Pemba
                                                                                                         Choma                                                                                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                  Cuando                                 Mulobezi                                                  Lake            ZIMBABWE                                                        RIVERS
                                                                                         Bowwood         Kalomo                    Kariba                                                                          MAIN ROADS
                                                             Sesheke

OCTOBER                                                                To
                                                                       To                        Senkobo                                                                                                           RAILROADS                                              IBRD
                                                                     Ngoma                                                                   0     50    100    150        200 Kilometers
                                                    NAMIBIA                                    Livingstone Pokuma                                                                                                  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                 To
                                                                                 To
                                                                           Mpandamatenga                                                                                                                                                                                      33514
                                                                                         To
                                                                                         To
       2004                                                                                                                                                                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                        Matetsi                                              0         50        100            150 Miles

                           22E                                 BOTSWANA                     26E                                                            30E

