                        INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET
                                      CONCEPT STAGE
                                                                            Report No.: 32566


Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 06/09/2005

I. BASIC INFORMATION

A. Basic Project Data

Country: Zambia                               Project ID: P082452
Project Name: Public Sector Management Program Support Project
Task Team Leader: Patricia Palale
Estimated Appraisal Date: July 11, 2005       Estimated Board Date: September 13, 2005
Managing Unit: AFTPR                          Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program
                                              Loan
Sector: General public administration sector (100%)
Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P)
IBRD Amount (US$m.):            0.00
IDA Amount (US$m.):            25.00
GEF Amount (US$m.):             0.00
PCF Amount (US$m.):             0.00
Other financing amounts by source:
        BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                               0.00
                                                                         0.00



B. Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN]
The PSMPSP is proposed as the Bank?s contribution to a harmonized approach to public sector
capacity building in Zambia in which the Bank is partnering through SWAps with other donors
which fund the Public Sector Management Program (PSMP). The overall program objective of
the PSMP is to improve public sector efficiency and effectiveness in GRZ to facilitate economic
growth and reduce poverty. In this context, the specific project development objective of the
PSMPSP is to strengthen and increase efficiencies in the legal, accounting and administrative
frameworks for public expenditure management, public service management and
decentralization.

C. Project Description [from section 3 of PCN]
PSMPSP is proposed as the Bank?s contribution to an harmonized approach to public sector
capacity building in Zambia PSMPSP is proposed as the Bank?s contribution to an harmonized
approach to public sector capacity building in Zambia comprising three pillars identified by GRZ
as its key public sector management reform priorities namely: (i) PEMFA (Public Expenditure
Management and Financial Accountability); (ii) PSM (Public Sector Management); and (iii)
Decentralization.

 Component 1: PEMFA: Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability (IDA:
US$8 million; Other funding: US$64 million)

 The overall objective of this component is to strengthen and increase efficiencies in the legal,
accounting and administrative frameworks for public expenditure management. A large part of
the funding will be to roll out the Integrated Financial Management Systems (IFMIS) to which
the Bank will substantially, but not solely, direct its efforts within the supervision framework
already agreed among donors. Under the Debt Management sub-component, the project will
work closely with the Bank?s Treasury Department to complement its debt management capacity
building activity with the Bank of Zambia.

 The results to be achieved under this component are: (i) improved financial accountability
through IFMIS implementation in all ministries; (ii) improved Budget management and
execution; (iii) strengthened internal public expenditure management controls; (iv)
implementation of an harmonized legal framework for transparency and accountability; (v)
strengthened Parliamentary and external oversight of public expenditure management; (vi)
strengthened regulation of the accountancy profession; and (vii) institutionalization of a
transparent, accountable and efficient public procurement system in line ministries.

 Component 2: PSM: Public Service Management
 (IDA: US$11 million; Proposed other funding being negotiated: US$16 million)

 The objective of this component is to strengthen and increase efficiencies in public service
management. Total proposed SWAp funding for this component under PSMP is $27 million,
with the Bank portion through PSMPSP proposed as being $11 million. Discussion on funding
allocations by other donors to this component is continuing. The Bank is proposing that its
efforts be substantially, but not solely, directed to three sub-components within the supervision
matrix being negotiated among donors: rightsizing, pay reform and performance management.

 The results to be achieved under this component are as follows: (i) rightsizing of ministries and
agencies appropriate to their functional responsibilities and to their respective budget ceilings;(ii)
limitation of increases in pay levels consistent with ministry and agency resource envelope; (iii)
implementation of a policy of employee remuneration being related to job specifications,
performance objectives and standards, particularly in the senior civil service; (iv) increased
public service recruitment and retention of essential technical, professional and managerial staff;
(v) development of a policy and strategy for increasing the sustainability of the civil service
pension scheme; and, (vi) development of social safety net policy and strategy for civil service
retrenchees to avoid their decline into poverty.

 There are strong linkages between the PEMFA and PSM components. For example improving
recruitment and retention and work motivation in the financial management staff has as a
necessary condition narrowing the pay differentials with the private sector.

 Component 3: Decentralization
 (IDA: $1.0 million)

 The objective of this component is to strengthen and increase efficiencies in decentralization
policy and strategies. This is the least developed component of the three pillars and the lowest
priority for GRZ. It is proposed that the PSMPSP project maintain a fund that will be used for
TA and/or carrying out analytical work to develop a decentralization framework and strategy that
will facilitate piloting and implementation of the National Decentralization Policy. One of the
interventions in this component will also focus on analyzing and making recommendations on
strengthening the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Local Government and Housing.

D. Project location (if known)
Lusaka, Zambia

E. Borrower's Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN]
Policy guidance will be provided by the Public Service Reform Program (PSRP) Management
Committee, a committee of ministers chaired by the Minister of Finance; and operational
guidance by the PSRP Steering Committee, a committee of chief executives, chaired by the
Secretary to the Cabinet. It is intended that there be two implementation and coordination units
(ICU): one in the Ministry of Finance and National Planning for the PEMFA component and one
in the Cabinet Office for PSM. No ICU is currently planned for the decentralization component
as a Decentralization Secretariat already exists in the Ministry of Local Government and
Housing. Focus groups involving representation from government, civil society, unions and
business will be established for each component to review issues and provide advice.

II. SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY
Safeguard Policies Triggered                                        Yes         No          TBD
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                                            X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                    X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                             X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                        X
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                    X
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                     X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                            X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                      X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                                 X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                          X



Environmental Category: C - Not Required

III. SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN

A. Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS
    would be prepared: 04/16/2005

B. For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage
    ISDS: 04/28/2005

C. Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.
The specific studies and their timing1 should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS.
    There are no safeguard policies that will be triggered by this project.

IV. APPROVALS


  Signed and submitted by:
  Task Team Leader:                               Ms Patricia Palale                                              03/24/2005
  Approved by:
  Regional Safeguards Coordinator:                Mr Thomas E. Walton                                             03/24/2005
    Comments: We have reviewed the PCN package,with particular attention to ISDS. We agree with
    category "C" for the project and we agree that there are no safeguards issues per se, and thus no
    policies triggered.
  Sector Manager:                                 Ms Helga W. Muller                                              03/24/2005
    Comments: I agree with the depiction of this safeguards sheet and hence (from my vantage point)
    approve as per requirements viz a viz my role.




1Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the

InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected
persons.


