Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDITNUMBER 4140 ZA 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Public Service Management Program 
–
Support Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated February 10, 2006  
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4140 ZA 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated February 10, 2006, between REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”). The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II —FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
twenty million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 20,700,000) (
“Credit”) to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
—PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension is that the Program, or a significant part 
thereof, has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived, at the 
instance of the Recipient, so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
the Recipient to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration is that the event specified in Section 4.01
 
of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60
 
days after notice of 
the event has been given by the Association to the Recipient. 
ARTICLE V – EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consists of the following:  
(a) 
the Recipient has adopted and submitted the Project 
Implementation Plan (PIP) in a form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association; 
(b) 
the Recipient has demonstrated the ability to produce financial 
reports, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(c)  
the Recipient has adopted and submitted a service delivery 
improvement facility operations manual, in a form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association; and 
(d) 
the Recipient appointed to the PEMFA Project Coordination 
Unit, and the PSM Coordination Unit, respectively, a procurement specialist and 
a
financial management specialist. 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under Articles IV and V of the General Conditions 
and Schedule 2 to this Agreement shall terminate is 20 years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
–
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipi
ent’s Representative is the Minister responsible for finance. 
 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance  
 
and National Planning 
 
PO Box 50062 
 
Lusaka, Zambia 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
MINFIN   42221 
  253494 
 
Lusaka 
      251078 
 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
   Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
  248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 64145 
(MCI) 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED at Lusaka, Republic of Zambia, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA 
 
By
 
/s/  Ng’andu P. Magande 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  /s/  Ohene Nyanin 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is
 to support the Recipient’s efforts to improve the 
efficiency and effectiveness of its public service delivery institutions, through enhanced 
accountability of the management of public expenditure and public service in line with its 
strategies for poverty reduction and promotion of its economic growth. 
The Project constitutes the second phase of the Program, and consists of the 
following parts: 
Part 1
:
Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability
The carrying out of Subprograms for: 
(a) 
Commitment Control and Financial Management System
.
Implementation of an effective financial management and commitment control system, 
including rolling out the financial management system to all central spending agencies 
and provinces, implementing a new treasury management system, and reform of 
government accounting system. 
(b) 
Integrated Financial Management and Information Systems 
Implementation
.
Implementing an automated financial management system to ensure 
improved public expenditure, efficiency and effectiveness in use of public resources.  
(c) 
Improved Fiscal Policy and Economic Planning
.
Implementing a policy-
based budgetary process for effective mobilization and allocation of resources in a 
systematic, effective and predictable manner, including developing a multi-year 
economic framework, producing a new macroeconomic model, reviewing existing 
planning processes, and construction of a consistency framework and of a budget 
forecasting tool. 
(d) 
Reformed Budget Preparation and Budget Execution
.
Establishing a 
more credible budgeting process, developing a transparent and simplified budget 
document, carrying out regular public expenditure reviews, and improving the cash 
release system. 
(e) Improved 
Debt 
Management
.
Implementing reforms for effective 
management of the Recipient’s external and domestic debt, and its investments including, 
inter alia
,
strengthening the institutional capacity of the Investment and Debt 
Management Department, carrying out reforms on the back office functions of the 
Investment and Debt Management Department, and developing a plan for the domestic 
debt market. 
Page  7
-
6
-
(f) Improved 
Internal 
Audit
.
Strengthening internal controls for improved 
public expenditure management and financial accountability, including building 
institutional capacity, reviewing and enhancing internal control systems, and carrying out 
training programs designed for professional development of staff. 
(g) 
Improved External Finance Coordination
.
Improving overall budgetary 
planning and coordination of external financing, including strengthening the coordination 
role of the Economic and Technical Cooperation Department. 
(h) 
Development of a consistent and harmonized Legal Framework for 
Public Expenditure and Management
.
Harmonization of the legal framework for financial 
management to ensure its consistency, transparency and accountability, reviewing 
existing laws relating to public expenditure management, and strengthening the capacity 
of the Ministry of Justice for reform of laws, including training legal professional staff in 
legislative drafting, legal aspects of public expenditure and management, and a specified 
number of associate counsel to ensure effective support and consistent staffing levels.  
(i) Strengthening 
External 
Audit
.
Strengthening the external auditing 
function to improve accountability and transparency in the use of public resources, 
including strengthening the capacity of the Office of Auditor General to support its 
decentralized functions in the districts and provinces. 
(j) 
Supporting Selected Parliamentary Committees
.
Strengthening the 
capacity of the Parliamentary Accounts and Estimates Committees, implementing a 
modernized management information system for committees;; including strengthening 
the capacity of the committees for oversight role in public expenditure and financial 
accountability. 
(k) 
Accountancy Training and Regulation
.
Strengthening the accountancy 
profession, and improving effective regulatory services to ensure high professional and 
ethical standards, including revision of laws, preparation and implementation of the 
professional code of conduct for accountants, installation of an integrated data 
management system in ZICA for effective management of its professional regulatory 
functions, reorganization of ZICA to strengthen its functions, and development of a one-
stop accountancy resource centre. 
(l) 
Public Procurement Reform.
Promotion and institutionalization of a 
transparent, accountable and efficient public procurement system to improve public 
expenditure, including implementation of a new procurement law and revised guidelines, 
enhancing procurement practices, implementing a code of conduct, establishing a 
procurement and supplies unit in all ministries, provinces and spending units, and 
supporting transformation of the ZNTB into an effective and transparent regulatory 
oversight body. 
Page  8
-
7
-
(m) 
Support to PEMFA Project Coordination Unit
for effective management, 
oversight, coordination and implementation of PEMFA Subprograms. 
Part 2:
Public Service Management
The carrying out of Subprograms for: 
(a) Rightsizing
.
Restructuring as may be necessary to rationalize the 
functions of the ministries and institutions including, 
inter alia
:
(i) developing a 
methodology to determine the staffing requirements in key sectors, (ii) developing 
revised organization structures for district and provincial administrations, (iii) re-
evaluation of the current downsizing strategies, (iv) developing and implementing 
strategies for contracting-out non-core services, (v) developing and implementing an 
HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation strategy for the public service, (vi) developing and 
implementing a strategy for mainstreaming gender equity in the public service, and (vii) 
developing and implementing a social protection strategy.  
(b) Pay 
Reform
.
Developing and implementing a comprehensive pay policy 
to attract, motivate and retain qualified and competent key professional and technical 
staff, through: (i) carrying out diagnostic work to inform the development of the policy, 
(ii) developing a revised public service pay structure which reflects the pay policy, 
(iii) enhancing planning and budgeting arrangements for personnel emoluments, and 
(iv) supporting the creation of a sustainable public service pensions fund.  
(c) 
Service Delivery Improvement
.
Developing and implementing effective 
performance management systems in ministries, departments and institutions, including, 
inter alia
:
(i) carrying out an in-depth review of the implementation of all performance 
management initiatives, (ii) developing a revised strategy and implementation plan for 
performance management, (iii) implementing a flexible facility to strengthen capacity of 
the ministries, departments and institutions, and (iv) building management capacity 
among permanent secretaries, heads of departments and managers of service delivery 
outlets, all for improved service delivery. 
(d) 
Payroll Management and Establishment Control
.
Strengthening the 
payroll management system, including: (i) sensitizing key stakeholders to effectively 
manage change, (ii) building adequate business and technical capacity to manage and 
maintain a payroll management and establishment control system, (iii) completing 
verification of establishments and staffing to ensure roll-out of the system in all 
ministries, (iv) establishing a department for management of payroll management and 
establishment control system, (v) supporting implementation and training activities, 
(vi) strengthening payroll integrity, (vii) implementing additional human resources sub-
modules, (viii) decentralizing the information technology infrastructure to the provincial 
level, (ix) integrating the payroll management and establishment control system with the 
integrated financial management systems, and (x) interfacing the payroll management 
and establishment control system with other systems. 
Page  9
-
8
-
(e) 
Supporting PSM Project Coordination Unit for effective
management, 
oversight, coordination, and implementation of PSM Subprograms. 
Part 3:
Supporting Retrenchment
Carrying out the Retrenchment Plan, including separation of excess and 
redundant staff, through the provision of severance payments to retrenched staff of the 
Recipient’s public service. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Recipient shall implement the Program in accordance with the procedures 
set out in the Program Implementation Plan, the PEMFA MOU and PSM MOU 
respectively, and, except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall not amend or waive any provision thereof, if in the opinion of the 
Association and the Cooperating Partners, such amendment or waiver may materially and 
adversely affect the implementation of the Program. 
2. 
The Recipient shall at all times during Project implementation maintain the PSRP 
Steering Committee comprised of Secretary to the Cabinet, Deputy Secretary to the 
Cabinet, Secretary to the Treasury, and permanent secretaries, both with the overall 
responsibility for oversight and policy guidance. 
Execution Covenants for Part 1 of the Project
3. 
The Recipient shall maintain at all times during Project implementation: 
 
(a) 
PEMFA Steering Committee with the responsibility for oversight of 
management, and implementation of Subprograms under Part 1 of the Project. To this 
end, PEMFA Steering Committee shall be comprised of the Secretary to the Treasury as 
its chair, and its other members shall be the representatives of the ministries and 
departments, and chief executives of institutions responsible for PEMFA Subprogram 
activities under Part 1 of the Project; and 
(b) 
PEMFA Project Coordination Unit with the responsibility for day to day 
management, coordination, and implementation of Part 1 of the Project. To this end, the 
Recipient shall appoint to the PEMFA Project Coordination Unit, a project director, a 
procurement manager, a finance manager, a monitoring and evaluation specialist, a legal 
framework expert, and a capacity development specialist, all with terms of reference, 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association.  
Execution Covenants for Part 2 of the Project
4. 
The Recipient shall maintain at all times during Project implementation: 
Page  11
-
10
-
(a) 
the Office of DSC-FED with the responsibility for coordination, 
management, and implementation of Subprograms under Part 2 of the Project. To this 
end, the Office of DSC-FED will be supported by an advisory committee comprised of 
the Permanent Secretary of Management Development Division, Permanent Secretary of 
Public Service Management Division, and task managers responsible for PSM 
Subprogram activities under Part 2 of the Project; 
(b) 
PSM Project Coordination Unit with the responsibility for day to day 
management, coordination, and implementation of Part 2 of the Project. To this end, the 
Recipient shall appoint to the PSM Project Coordination Unit, a project director, a 
procurement specialist, a financial management specialist, a monitoring and evaluation 
specialist, and a service delivery improvement facility specialist, all with terms of 
reference, qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association 
Execution Covenants for Part 3 of the Project
5. 
For the purpose of the provision of Severance Payments to staff of the 
Recipient’s public service retrenched under Part 3 of the Project, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare and furnish to the Association a Retrenchment Plan including a 
social impact assessment, acceptable to the Association, and setting forth, 
inter alia, 
the 
following: (i) a specification of the eligible staff of the Recipient’s public service in form 
of a list, including for each individual staff the total amount of severance payments due 
under a retrenchment program to be specified in the Retrenchment Plan, (ii) list amount 
and retrenchment notification processes for each individual staff, duly certified by an 
independent audit firm, (iii) the verification process to be followed to confirm that said 
eligible staff of the Recipient’s public service have received such payments and have 
been removed from the Recipient’s payroll; and (iv) rules, procedures and guidelines for 
a
operation of the Retrenchment Account opened in BOZ, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  
(b) 
carry out Part 3 of the Project in accordance with the Retrenchment Plan; 
and  
 
(c) 
not amend or waive any provision of the said Retrenchment Plan which, 
in the opinion of the Association, may materially or adversely affect the implementation 
of Part 3 of the Project. 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
Fiscal Framework, Planning, Budgeting and Execution of PEMFA and PSM 
Subprograms.
6. 
(a) 
Except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall ensure at all times during implementation of the Project, that each 
ministry, department or institution responsible for a PEMFA Subprogram or PSM 
Subprogram, comply with resource allocation and management procedures relating to the 
establishment of the fiscal framework, medium term planning and annual budget, 
execution and reallocation, as specifically set forth in the Program Implementation Plan. 
 
(b) 
The procedures referred to in sub-paragraph (a) above shall include the 
following: 
(i) 
resource allocation and management procedures and annual 
review process shall be aligned to the Fiscal Year and budget 
classification system, in accordance with the procedures and 
timetable specified in the PIP; 
(ii) 
during each Fiscal Year the medium-term projections of resource 
available under the Program shall be incorporated into the 
macro-economic fiscal framework, and appropriate division of 
resources between ministries, departments and institutions 
responsible for Subprogram activities, established and 
annualized on the basis of previous year’s performance, and in 
accordance with the procedures and timetable specified in the 
PIP; 
(iii) 
during each Fiscal Year, each ministry, department or institution 
responsible for a Subprogram activity shall, through the PEMFA 
Steering Committee, or Office of DSC-FED respectively, submit 
to MoFNP: (A) costed medium-term plans of Subprogram 
activities within medium-term plans; and (B) Annual Work Plans 
established in the Recipient’s overall annual fiscal plan, and in 
accordance with the procedures and timetables specified in the 
PIP; 
(iv) 
during each Fiscal Year, PEMFA Project Coordination Unit and 
PSM Project Coordinating Unit respectively, shall appraise and 
submit the Annual Work Plans to MoFNP, or the Office of the 
DSC-FED respectively, for approval in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in the PIP, which shall include: (A) the 
relevance of planned activities in relation to the assessed 
Page  13
-
12
-
constraints, and (B) provision for support of PEFA and PSM 
Subprograms, all in accordance with procedures and timetable 
specified in the PIP; 
(v) 
(A) during each Fiscal Year the Recipient shall incorporate into 
its budget, all Annual Work Plans for Subprogram activities 
under Parts 1 and 2 of the Project, and (B) such approved annual 
implementation plans shall be executed on a six-monthly 
reimbursement basis, as set forth in the procedures and 
timetables specified in the PIP; and  
(vi) 
during each Fiscal Year, PEMFA Steering Committee and Office 
of DSC-FED, respectively, shall review and recommend to 
MoFNP reallocation of annual budget for PEMFA and PSM 
Subprograms on the basis of yearly utilization and performance, 
in accordance with the procedures and timetables set forth in the 
PIP. 
Annual Work Plan and Budget
7. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 6 of this Schedule, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall, by 
October 31 of each year during the implementation of the Project, furnish for approval by 
the Association a draft annual work plan and budget for the following Fiscal Year, in a 
scope and format agreed with the Association and other Cooperating Partners. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare semiannual Project Reports and Project Annual Reports in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set 
forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project Annual Report shall 
cover the period from January 1 through December 31, and shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five days after the end of the period covered by such 
report.  
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following:  
Page  14
-
13
-
(i) 
activity based budgeting is in place in all ministries, departments and 
institutions, and is aligned with and linked to the MTEF; 
(ii) 
percentage of deviation of actual spending from approved budget is 
reduced from over 20% to under 15% of approved budget; 
(iii) 
time taken to prepare audited annual reports for all th
e
Recipient’s 
ministries, departments and institutions accounts is within the period 
stated under the laws of the Recipient; 
(iv) 
the payroll for the public servants of the Recipient is reconciled to 
remove discrepancy between the final payroll and staff establishment; 
(v) 
at least four ministries have published service delivery charters and have 
implemented effective service delivery feedback systems; and  
(vi) 
all public procurement is decentralized and the ZNTB’s oversight and 
regulatory role is strengthened. 
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than September 30, 2007. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the semiannual Project Reports, not later 
than 45 days after the end of each calendar six months, interim un-audited financial 
reports for the Project covering the previous six months, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient, commencing with 
the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the Project Preparation Advance was 
made.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months after the end of such period.
 
Page  15
-
14
-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
.
1. 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
 Procurement 
Methods
 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding.   
(b) 
Shopping.   
(c) Direct 
Contracting. 
(d) 
Limited International Bidding. 
(e) Procurement 
from 
IAPSO. 
Page  16
-
15
-
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which 
may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Methods 
(a) Quality-based 
Selection 
(b) 
Least Cost selection 
(c) 
Single Source Selection. 
(d) 
Individual Consultants.   
(e) 
Selection under Fixed Budget. 
(f) 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications. 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General. 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient, to finance Eligible Expenditures in each 
category, as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
Page  17
-
16
-
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing
 (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated  
(expressed in SDR
)
Percentage of  
Expenditures 
 to be Financed
(1)  Subprograms 
 
(a) PEMFA Subprograms 
 
(b) PSM Subprograms 
 
5,350,000 
7,650,000 
Such percentage of eligible 
expenditures as the 
Association may determine 
for each Fiscal Year 
(2) Severance payments for Part 3 
of the Project 
6,690,000 
100% of the amounts disbursed 
(3) Refund of Project Preparation 
Advance 
380,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07 of the General 
Conditions 
(4) Unallocated 
630,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
_________ 
20,700,000 
======== 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
1
.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for: 
(a) 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; 
(b) 
Subprogram activities under Category 1, unless: (A) PEMFA MOU 
among the Recipient and Cooperating Partners has been revised and its addendum signed 
among the Recipient and Cooperating Partners participating in the arrangements for 
pooling of funds for PEMFA Subprograms; and (B) PSM MOU has been signed among 
the Recipient and Cooperating Partners participating in the arrangements for the pooling 
of funds for PSM Subprograms; and (C) such Subprogram activities have been approved 
Page  18
-
17
-
by the Association and the Cooperating Partners, and the respective Side Agreements 
confirming such approval, the percentage, and amount of Pooled Fund Expenditures to be 
financed by the Association for each Fiscal Year of the Project implementation has been 
submitted to the Association on an annual basis.  
The Association shall, upon the request of the Recipient, make payments under 
Category 1 based on the Association’s annual commitment, as described in the respective 
Side Agreement; 
(c) 
Severance Payments under Category 2, unless the Recipient has prepared 
and adopted the Retrenchment Plan including a social impact assessment for execution of 
Part 3 of the Project, in a form and substance satisfactory to the Association; provided 
that, the said Retrenchment Plan shall, prior to its adoption, have been submitted to the 
Association in draft form for review and approval; and 
(d) 
payments made for expenditures for goods and services supplied under a 
contract which any national or international financing institution or agency, other than the 
Association, shall have financed or agreed to finance under any other credit or grant. 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
The Recipient shall, not later than June 30, 2006: 
(a) 
 select the auditors referred to in section 4.09 (b) (i) of the General 
Conditions; and 
(b) 
appoint to PEMFA Project Coordination Unit, and PSM Project 
Coordination Unit respectively, the following key personnel: (i) a project director, (ii) a 
monitoring and evaluation specialist, and (iii) a specialist to manage the service delivery 
improvement facility. 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each April 1 and October 1 
 
commencing April 1, 2016 to and including 
October 1, 2025  
1% 
commencing April 1, 2026 to and including 
October 1, 2045 
2% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  20
-
19
-
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
(a) 
“AIDS” means the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; 
(b) 
“Annual Work Plan” means each program of work and budget prepared 
annually by the PEMFA Project Coordination Unit and the PSM Project Coordination 
Unit (all as hereinafter defined), respectively, in accordance with paragraph 7 of Section I 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
(c) 
“BOZ” means Bank of Zambia, the Recipient’s Central Bank; 
(d) 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 
2004; 
(f) 
 
“Cooperating Partners” means, collectively, the Association, DANIDA, 
DfID, (all as hereinafter defined), European Commission, Federal Republic of Germany, 
Kingdom of Norway, Republic of Finland, Republic of Ireland, Kingdom of Netherlands, 
Government of Sweden, and UNDP (as hereinafter defined), and any other national or 
international agency making a financial contribution to the Pooled Funds (as hereinafter 
defined); 
(g) 
“DANIDA” means the Danish Agency for Development Assistance; 
(h) 
 “DfID” means the United Kingdom Government Department for 
International Development; 
(i) 
“Economic and Technical Cooperation Department” means a department 
in the MoFPN (as hereinafter defined;  
(j) 
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Recipient’s fiscal year beginning 
January 1 and ending December 31 of the next calendar year; 
(k) 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005; 
(l) 
“IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services of the United 
Nations; 
Page  21
-
20
-
(m) 
“Investment and Debt Management Department” means a department in 
the MoFNP (as hereinafter defined), responsible for management of the Recipient’s 
investments, domestic and external debt; 
(n) 
“MTEF” means the Medium Term Expenditure Framework, a three year 
budgeting tool; 
(o) 
“Memorandum of Understanding” or “MOU”; means PEMFA MOU or 
PSM MOU (all as hereinafter defined); 
(p) 
“MoFNP” means the Ministry of Finance and National Planning of the 
Recipient; 
(q) 
‘Office of the Auditor General” means the Office of the Auditor General 
established pursuant to the provisions of Article 121 of the Recipient’s Constitution;  
(r) 
“Office of DSC-FED” means the Office of the Deputy Secretary to the 
Cabinet in charge of Finance and Economic Development of the Recipient; 
(s) 
“PEMFA MOU” means the memorandum of understanding signed 
among the Recipient and certain cooperating partner organizations, dated December 8, 
2004, including an Addendum to be executed between the Recipient, and the Cooperating 
Partners, setting forth 
inter alia
 common procedures on procurement, financial 
management and disbursement arrangements for pooling of funds for PEMFA 
Subprograms, as such MOU may be amended from time to time, and such terms includes 
any schedules or addenda to the MOU; 
(t) 
“PEMFA Project Coordination Unit” means the unit referred to in 
paragraph 3 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
(u) 
“PEMFA Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in 
paragraph 3 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
(v) 
“PEMFA Subprogram” means activities approved under Part 1 of the 
Project for implementation by a ministry, department or other institution of the Recipient, 
and which are included in the Annual Work Plans to be carried out in each Fiscal Year, in 
accordance with the PIP (as hereinafter defined) and as agreed upon between the 
Recipient and the Association; 
(w) 
“Pooled Funds” means funds provided by the Cooperating Partners in 
support of the Program;  
(x) 
“Program Implementation Plan” and “PIP” mean the implementation 
plan referred to in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement and consisting of, 
inter alia
,
guidelines and procedures to be used for the purpose of implementation of the Project, 
including financial management and procurement procedures, and such other 
Page  22
-
21
-
administrative, financial, organizational arrangements, as such plan may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the PIP;  
(y) 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004; 
(z) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the 
Project, dated November 14, 2005, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated 
from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs; 
(aa) 
“Program” means the program of actions and strategies designed to 
improve management, efficiency, transparency, accountability and use of public 
resources, and to promote good governance at all levels of the Recipient’s public sector, 
and set forth or referred to in the Recipient’s Strategy for Priority Areas of the Public 
Service Reform Programme (PSRP) 2004–2008, and a letter dated October 28, 2005, 
from the Recipient to the Association; 
(bb) 
“PSM MOU” means the memorandum of understanding to be signed 
among the Recipient and certain cooperating partner organizations, setting forth 
inter alia
 
common procedures on procurement, financial management and disbursement 
arrangements for pooling of funds for PSM Subprograms, as such MOU may be amended 
from time to time, and such terms includes any schedules or addenda to the MOU; 
(cc) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in 
Sectionn2.07 of the General Conditions, granted by the Association to the Recipient 
pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Association on August 1, 2005, 
and on behalf of the Recipient on August 17, 2005; 
(dd) 
“PSRP Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in 
paragraph 2 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
(ee) 
“PSM Subprogram” means activities approved under Part 2 of the 
Project for implementation by a ministry, department or other institution of the Recipient, 
and which are included in the Annual Work Plans to be carried out in each Fiscal, in 
accordance with the PIP and as agreed upon between the Recipient and the Association; 
(ff) 
“PSM Project Coordination Unit” means the unit referred to in 
paragraph 4 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
(gg) 
“Retrenchment Account” means the account to be established under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association pursuant to Part 3 of the Project, to 
be used for Severance Payments (as hereinafter defined); 
(hh) 
“Retrenchment Plan” means the plan referred to in paragraph B.1 (c) of 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to be implemented by the Recipient in 
Page  23
-
22
-
accordance with its terms, and the provisions of paragraph 5 of Section I of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement; 
(ii) 
“Side Agreement” means an agreement or a letter of annual commitment 
to be signed among the Recipient and Cooperating Partners after carrying out the Annual 
Review, setting forth, 
inter alia, 
the financial commitments of each Cooperating Partner 
towards the Pooled Funds for the Fiscal Year following such review, and referred to in 
paragraph B.1 (b) of Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and the term “Side 
Agreements” means all such Side Agreements for PEMFA Subprograms and PSM 
Subprograms; 
(jj) 
“Severance Payments” means payments made by the Recipient to the 
staff of its public service separated from its employment under Part 3 of the Project; 
(kk) 
“Subprogram” means a PEMFA Subprogram or PSM Subprogram, and 
the term “Subprograms” all such PEMFA Subprograms and PSM Subprograms; 
(ll) 
“UNDP” means United Nations Development Program; 
(mm) 
“ZICA” means Zambia Institute of Chartered Accountants, a corporate 
body established and operating pursuant to Zambia Institute of Chartered Accountants 
Act (CAP 390) of the laws of the Recipient, and responsible for regulation of the practice 
and profession of accountancy in the territory of the Recipient; and  
(nn) 
“ZNTB” means Zambia National Tender Board, established and 
operating pursuant to the Zambia National Tender Board Act (CAP 394) of the laws of 
the Recipient, and responsible for management and regulation of public procurement in 
the territory of the Recipient. 
 
