RETUR4N TO                         l              n.
REPORT5-S DESK                     FILE CurY
WITMIN
ONE WEEK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 185-IND
APPRAISAL OF THE
JAKARTA INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PULO GADUNG
INDONESIA
July 27, 1973
Industrial Projects Department
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
US$1.00              =          Rp 415
1 Rupiah             =         US$0.0024
1 million Rupiah    =          US$2,410
LAND ARFA EQUIVALENTS
1 acre                         0.405 hectares
1 hectare                      2.47 acres
1 hectare            =         10,000 square meters
1 hectare            =         107,643 square feet
1 sauare meter                 10.76 square feet
A.BBKRVIATIONS
DKI            -    Jakarta Municipal Government
BAPPENAS       -    National Planning Agency
P.T.           -    Perseroan Terbatas (a limited liability
company established under the com-
mercial code)
PLN             -    Perusahaan Lis trik Negara (National
Power Authority)
BAPINDO        -    Bank Penbangunan Indonesia (Development
Bank of Indonesia)



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF THE PULO GADUNG INDUSTIIAL ESTATE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS . ..................... ...  .....  i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION  .........................................       1
II.   THE INDONESIAN SETTING ...............   .......... ......    I
A.   General .........................................        1
B.   The Industrial Sector ...............  ............      2
1.   Structure, Performance and Growth Prospects.       2
2.   Foreign Investment and Incentives .... ......    4
3.   Domestic Investment and Incentives  .........      5
C.   Development Strategy and Industrial Estates   ...        6
III. MARKET ............... 7
A.   Jakarta's Comparative Advantages ...............   .     7
B.   Demand for Industrial Land in Jakarta .... o ......      8
C.   Available Industrial Land in Jakarta Area ......         9
D.   Characteristics of the Pulo Gadung Site ........ .    10
E.   Industry Structure on the Estate ..............   ..   11
IV.   THE PROJECT ...          .....................................   12
A.   Project Scope and Land Use Pattern        ..............   12
B.   Estate Development .............................    13
1.   Land Development and Infrastructure ....... .    13
2.   Management Complex .......... .. .............   13
3.   Present Status of the Project .............  .    14
C.   Estate Corporation and Management ....      ...........   14
D.   Small Scale Industry Support Services ........ ...    16
V.  PROJECT COST, CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE AND FINANCING PLAN    17
A.   Project Cost ................. ...................   17
B.   Construction Schedule ...........................   18
C.   Financing Plan .......    ...........................    18
This report has been prepared by Messrs. C. Goderez, G. Becher and T. Nasu
of the Industrial Projects Department.



-2-
Page No.
VI.   PROCUREMENT, USE OF CREDIT AND RATE OF DISBURSEMENT ..    20
VII.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .....      ..       ..................... .    21
A. Revenue .21
B.   Income and Cash Flow Forecasts  .24
C. Balance Sheets and Audits .25
D.   Financial Return ..........................             26
VIII. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL BENEFITS .27
A.   Acceleration of Industrial Investment  . .27
B. Employment.........   27
C.   External and Internal Economies ....... .....      .    28
D. Social Benefits   .                  .28
E.   Indigenous Entrepreneurship Development . .28
F.   Fiscal Benefits .... . ...     ..29
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS .29
ANNEXES
1.   Size Distribution of Industries (1964 Census)
2.   Industrial Structure, 1970
3.   Approved Foreign Manufacturing Investments, 1967-mid-1971
4.   Preliminary Development Plan, April 1972
5.   Notes on Estate Infrastructure
6.   Organization Chart
7.   Capital Cost Estimate
8.   Land Acquisition and Disposition Schedule
9.   Cost of Land Sold
10.   Unit Prices and Annual Rent for Land and Buildings
11.   Revenue Buildup, 1972-1983
12.   Mortgage Receivables
13.   Income Statement
14.   Cash Flow Statement
15.   Operating Costs
16.   Balance Sheets, 1972-1983
17.   Financial Rate of Return
MAP (IBRD 10204) Jakarta Industrial Estate
(IBRD 10032) Indonesia



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF THE PULO GADUNG INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report analyzes a project to establish an industrial estate
near the eastern boundary of Jakarta. To this end and in keeping with the
Government's long-term land use plan in the Jakarta area, 568 ha have been
delineated at Pulo Gadung as Indonesia's first full-fledged industrial
estate. The project, which is to provide industrial sites with the necessary
infrastructure and render miscellaneous other services, is estimated to
require financing of US$51.0 million equivalent of which the Association
would contribute US$16.5 million. Of the proposed IDA credit, US$14.0 million
would be allocated to the development of estate land, buildings and infra-
structure and US$2.5 million to the construction of a power plant located
on and serving the estate but owned by the public utility power company
(PLN). It is envisaged that construction will extend through 1977, that
there will be approximately 200 enterprises settling on the estate, either
on purchased or leased individual plots for construction of their own factories
or in rented space in preconstructed factory buildings, and that the estate
will be fully occupied by 1980.
ii.       Since 1968, industrial investment in Indonesia has been accelerat-
ing rapidly, reflecting the growing confidence of both foreign and domestic
entrepreneurs in the economic potential and social stability of the country.
By far the largest share of manufacturing investment has been, and for a long
time to come will continue to be, attracted to the Jakarta area. In the
absence of enforced zoning regulations, new industries have located haphazard-
ly within the confines of the city contributing to congestion and local over-
loading of infrastructure--roads, power, water, sewage and telephones. The
estate at Pulo Gadung, by providing prepared industrial sites and services
at competitive prices, is intended to attract industry away from the congested
center of the municipal area. Concentrating many industries in one area
greatly facilitates infrastructure development planning and reduces both
costs and elapsed time for implementation. In addition to these benefits,
the estate at Pulo Gadung will provide a useful matrix for testing a number
of programs to stimulate the growth of small-scale industry and hence of
indigenous ownership.
iii.      The estate will be organized as a limited liability corporation
operating under the commercial code with 50% of the share capital of
US$7 million equivalent provided by the Central Government and 50% by the
Jakarta Municipal Government (DKI). The balance of the financing would
consist of the equivalent of the US$14.0 million of IDA funds; US$3.5 million
from local banks and US$23.0 million generated internally through the sale
of factory plots. The power plant would be financed by the remaining
US$2.5 million of IDA's contribution and US$1.0 million in local currency,
both provided as equity to PLN, which would execute this part of the project.



- ii -
iv.       The IDA credit of US$16.5 million would be used entirely to finance
internationally tendered civil works and equipment contracts and the foreign
exchange costs of necessary technical services. Direct and indirect foreign
exchange costs of the project are estimated at IUS$14.3 million or 87% of
the IDA credit. There will be no retroactive financing with IDA funds.
V.        The estate, under interim management provided by DKI, has been
functioning since April 1971 when the project was officially initiated.
As of June 1973, 40 enterprises had purchased factory plots and about 10
others were negotiating to settle on the estate. Management help and techni-
cal advisory services are to be provided by a 4-man team of the Westinghouse
Electric Corporation under a contract which has already been signed and which
will run t.-o mid-1975, and possibly longer. Westinghouse, which has consider-
able exvertise in land use planning and development, had prepared the
feasibility study for the. project with the support and cooperation of the
Jakarta Municipal voernment.  These management support arrangements are
satisfactory, and osperating experience so far indicates that cost estimates,
revenues and time schedi_½Ies for estate development and occupancy projected
in this report are attainle.
vi.       Based on the forecasted time phasing of investment and occupancy,
the financial return in constant terms over 20 years is 13.4%, indicating a
suitable project in ters of profitability.  In addition, it is anticipated
that indus try se-1:l7.nq or, the estate will create about 55,000 new jobs and
will. entail capit3al investrient of about US$700 million.  About 20% of this
gross job creation and capital investment may reasonably be considered as
net incremental benefits directly attrbutable to thie investment generating
efefr!ts of    Tn,olect. The estate is expected not only to attract foreign
inivestment but to act as a strong stivriulus to the development of indigenous
Small- and medium-scale industry.  Since the estate is entirely owned by
cvereat, the profits, whether paid ott as taxes or as dividends, will be
fitsal incomI.  By 1993, taxes paid by the estate corporation of US$10.1
iietii.'f np:^W  t1- _.7-w{e ,rninLnga -f 15$17 6 million are projected.  In
4gd;iS5^  i.dug'-'ie  on tne esis-ate are expected to generate US$45.0 million
or tax payments hIn 1985, ,+en taX holidays will be substantially exhausted,
increa3iig thereafter in heeping with the rate of growth of industry earnings
8X-t Czally -
vii.      Tr, vxiet of the project's technical and financial feasibility, its
ee?eSud.c. ad .    l ''benefits and the agreements reached during negotiations
aeo,rv?m-  : *-iUn Žrd of tie report, an IDA credit of US$16.5 million
is suitable.



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF THE PULO GADUNG INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In September, 1970, an Industrial Projects mission to Indonesia
reviewed with BAPPENAS (National Planning Agency) preliminary studies of
five possible industrial estate projects in or near three major urban cen-
ters on the island of Java - Jakarta, Surabaya and Tjilatjap. Of the five
projects reviewed, the one at Pulo Gadung, Jakarta, appeared the most
feasible for early implementation and the Bank recommended that a full
feasibility study be undertaken.
1.02      Westinghouse Electric Corporation of the U.S. had earlier made
known to Indonesian authorities its interest in collaborating in the develop-
ment of an industrial estate. Westinghouse, for many years, has been diver-
sifying its urban systems activities and has been acquiring substantial
expertise in land use planning, development and management. A pre-feasibil-
ity study was completed early in 1971 by a group of Westinghouse experts
assisted by officials of the Jakarta Municipal Government (DKI).  The study
concluded that there was a strong and growing demand for serviced industrial
land in the Jakarta area, that a properly planned and managed estate would be
financially viable and economically beneficial, and that Pulo Gadung rated
high as the location for Indonesia's first industrial estate when compared
with alternative sites in the Jakarta area.
1.03      A comprehensive feasibility study 1/ was started in August 1971
by an enlarged team of Westinghouse and DKI personnel - including economists,
engineers, land development planners, and financial analysts, supplemented
by outside specialized consultants both foreign and domestic - and completed
in April 1972. In response to a request from the Indonesian Government, an
appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. C. Goderez (Chief), and G. Becher
(financial analyst) of the Industrial Projects Department spent three weeks
in Jakarta over July/August 1972 and an additional week in February 1973,
during which period the project has evolved to its present form and scope.
II. THE INDONESIAN SETTING
General
2.01      Indonesia is an archipelago of 13,000 islands (1,000 inhabited)
comprising a land area of 1,900,000 sq kms and with some 125 million people
- increasing at a rate of 2.5% per annum - it ranks fifth largest in population
among all nations. The island of Java alone contains 80 million, or 65%
1/   Feasibility Study, Jakarta Industrial Estate at Pulo Gadung, by DKI
and Westinghouse, April 1972, 205 pages.



-2-
of the total population. About 80% of Indonesia's population is occupied
in agriculture, which generates about half of GDP. In contrast, manufacturing
contributed only 10% of GDP in 1970 (current prices), although in recent
years the relative importance of this sector has been growing. Nevertheless,
the share of industry is well below the "normal" level of 14 to 15% for
countries of roughly Indonesia's population and GDP.
2.02      There has been a remarkable recovery in Indonesia since the
economic low of the mid-1960's. Inflation, which peaked at 680% in 1965,
was brought under control, and was only 2.5% in 1971, although a drought
in 1972 and the resulting rice shortage has raised the cost of living index by
25% since then. Exports have been growing rapidly - from US$831 million in
1969 to an estimated US$1.2 billion in 1971 and projected to exceed US$2.0
billion in 1973 - as the country's vast resources of petroleum, minerals and
timber are being progressively exploited.
2.03      Notwithstanding the recovery in recent years, the problems facing
Indonesia are considerable. Per capita income is low, in fact the lowest of
the five member countries of the ASEAN group, 1/ and unemployment and under-
employment are high. Possibilities of significant improvements in employment
or per capita income based on agricultural development alone are limited,
and while oil and mineral exploitation contribute importantly to GDP, exports
and per capita income, it offers relatively little in the way of employment
creation. Not surprisingly, if Indonesia is to solve the fundamental problem
of providing an adequate number of jobs and is to improve its living standards,
greater emphasis must be placed on industrial development.
B.   The Industrial Sector
1.   Structure, Performance and Growth Prospects
2.04      The latest national census of manufacturing industries taken in
1970 lists 1,975 large enterprises (over 50 workers) and 15,925 medium
enterprises (6 to 50 workers) employing 596,000 and 252,000 respectively.
Small scale enterprises (up to 5 workers) employed over 2 million of
the total manufacturing work force which was estimated at 2.9 million in
1971. In keeping with generally accepted classification criteria, the
industries nominally listed as medium scale in Indonesia could be more
appropriately included in the small scale category and on this basis, the
small scale industry sector accounts for 2.3 million manufacturing jobs out
of the total 2.9 million or 84% (Annex 1). The importance of this labor
intensive subsector to the national economy is further emphasized by the
1/   Singapore, US$783; Malaysia, US$395; Philippines, US$200; Thailand,
US$104; Indonesia, US$97 (1972 figures). The ASEAN group is a loose
association of these five countries organized for the purpose of
development coordinated policies and strategy in matters affecting the
region.



-3-
data presented in Annex 2 showing that in the majority of manufacturing
sectors, small and medium scale firms contribute well over 50% of total
sectoral value added. As will be discussed in later sections of this report,
the Pulo Gadung estate project has been conceived and structured to respond
effectively to the specialized needs of smaller domestic enterprises as well
as providing attractive sites and services to larger foreign and domestic
companies.
2.05      Using a multi-sectoral macroeconomic model, a recent Bank study 1/
projected growth to 1980 of three significant economic indicators as follows:
Selected Growth Indicators, 1970-1980
Average
1970       1980       Rate of Growth
(% per annum)
Population (millions)       116        147             2.4
GNP at market prices
(US$ billion)           10.3        22.0             7.9
GNP per capita (US$)         89        150             5.4
The report also concluded that with an anticipated annual GNP growth of about
8% over the 1970's, average annual industrial growth could be expected to
range between 13 and 15%, with specific manufacturing sectors experiencing
equal or above average growth rates as summarized below:
Projected Growth Rates of Selected Manufacturing Sectors, 19_71-1980
Growth Rate
Sectors                               (as % of GNP growth) (x)
- Food, beverages, tobacco and leather products             100        8.0
- Textiles and wood products                                160       12.8
- Basic metals, machinery industries (electrical            220       17.6
and non-electrical), rubber products, non-
metallic minerals, chemicals (particularly
plastics and synthetic products), and pulp
and paper products.
The higher growth-rate industries include many that can be expected to locate
on the estate.
1/   "Indonesia:  Investment and Growth Prospects in the 1970's", Report
No. EAP-22, March 22, 1971, Chapter 4.



-4-
2.06      In terms of gross investment, assuming an average capital to
output (added value) ratio of 2.5, the same report projected potential
industrial investment of perhaps US$5 billion between 1970 and 1980,
indicating that, barring unforeseen upheavals, industrial investment in
Indonesia is likely to remain at the high levels established recently of
about US$400 million per year. An estimated 35% of industrial investment
(which includes mining, petroleum, timbering and other extractive activities)
or US$140 million per year would be in manufacturing.
2.   Foreign Investment and Incentives
2.07      Government attitudes and policy since 1967 towards foreign invest-
ment have been progressively liberalized and effectively implemented through
a series or tax, tariff and other incentives.  The Foreign Investment Law of
1967 provides incentives for investments which: (i) increase foreign exchange
earnings (mining, tourism, primary and manufactured exports); (ii) substitute
domestic production for inmports; and (iii) increase employment opportunities,
introduce new technology, and yield rapid returns. Tax benefits on govern-
ment-approved projects include exemption from income and dividend taxes of
up to 6 and 2 years respectively, accelerated depreciation, and carry-forward
of losses. Profit transfers and debt payments are not restricted. A few
industries are closed to foreign investment and the Ministry of Industry may
also exclude certain others on an ad hoc basis if it is deemed that present
or planned capacity is adequate to satisfy domestic demand. In the small
and medium industry sector, 37 light industrial categories, such as dairy
products, batteries, cigarettes, matches, bicycles, soap, shoes, candies
and soft drinks, bricks and tiles, are closed to foreign firms.
2.08      Investment approvals granted to foreign investors (Annex 3) during
the oeriod 1967 to mid-1971 - most of them after 1969 - totalled close to
400 with a planned investment of nearly US$1.6 billion; 208 of these projects
e_e in manufacturing with a planned investment of US$427 million as detailed
bei
.tL,~eln anufacturing Investment Aprovals by Country, 1967 - June 1971
Approved
_Projects             Gross Investment
(no's)   (%)     (US$ millions)        (%)
.Japan                   39    18.7            140           32.8
U.S.                     34    16.4             95           22.2
Europe                   52    24.9             78           18.2
Hong Kong                37    17.8             32            7.5
Singapore                16     7.7             45           10.6
Australia                11     5.3             12            2.9
Others                   19     9.2             25            5.8
Totals                  208   100.0            427          100.0



- 5 -
Additional manufacturing approvals between July 1971 and end-1972 have added
US$260 million to the gross investment figure of US$427 million in the table
above for a total of US$687 million. It is apparent that the rate of manufac-
turing investment approvals has about doubled since mid-1971 to US$180
million per annum compared to an average of US$95 million per annum in the
preceding four and one-half years,confirming the projection given in para 2.06.
2.09      There is a time lag between approval of a foreign investment and
its realization, which has been ranging up to two years or longer. A survey
early in 1972 showed that about one-third of all investments approved since
1967 and 58% in manufacturing, had started project implementation. Although
some projects may never be implemented for a variety of reasons, inordinate
delays in project execution in Indonesia are in large measure attributable
to complex land acquisition procedures and bureaucratic complications in
processing necessary permits. Recognizing these problems, on May 30, 1973
the Government created the Capital Investment Coordinating Board (replacing
the Capital Investment Technical Team) whose responsibilities are not only
to review and approve foreign (and domestic) investment applications but also
to assist in their implementation by expediting and coordinating the issuance
of necessary permits and other inputs from various government agencies.
3.   Domestic Investment and Incentives
2.10      The Domestic Investment Law of 1968, provides a framework of
incentives and benefits comparable to those offered foreign investors. An
Indonesian company is defined as one in which at least 51% is owned by the
State and/or Indonesian citizens. Tax holidays of up to six years are
negotiable provided the enterprise, as with foreign companies, meets certain
criteria on size, location, type of industry and foreign exchange impact.
Priority industries under the law include plantations, forestry, fisheries,
cattle, mining, transportation, housing, tourism, infrastructure and other
productive undertakings as specifically allowed, including the 37 industries
reserved for domestic investment (para 2.08).
2.11      Project approvals under the Domestic Investment Law have since
1970 been running at about 20 per month. Approximately 60% of the applica-
tions have been in manufacturing and assuming that this level will at least
continue, it is expected that domestic investments in this sector will amount
to about US$40 million per year or close to 30% of the US$140 million in
total annual gross investment in manufacturing (para 2.06). Between 1969
and 1972, of over 1,300 applications received, 993 were approved and an
estimated 550 (56%) of these were under construction or in operation by the
end of the period. Textiles, paper and board, plastic products, matches,
pharmaceuticals, batteries, radio and television assembly, electric fans,
and other household utilities, tires and tubes, cement and cigarettes have
made up most of the investments.



C.   Development Strateg and Industrial Estates
2.12      The growth of manufacturing investment traced in the preceding
sections is not T4ithout its problems despite the manifest benefits in terms
of GNP, fiscal income, balance of payments, job creation and skill upgrading.
New investments inevitably place an added strain on already overburdened
elements of infrastructure such as transport, power, water, waste disposal,
communications and housing.
2.13      In this context, industrial estates can help to maintain a balance
between expansion of industry and infrastructure. By attracting and concen-
trating large numbers of firms in one defined area as opposed to haphazard
locational decisions of individual managements, planning and installation of
both off-site and on-site infrastructure are simplified and less costly. At
the same time, financial costs to industries occupying the estate are reduced
because of time savings in land acquisition, construction and start-up and
lower plant investment in services and utilities which are often provided by
the estate as common facilities. Thus, industrial estates generate important
benefits through external economies in infrastructure investment and reduced
plant investment and operating costs for the manufacturer.
2.14      Industrial estates can serve a number of purposes, depending on
the specific problems and constraints affecting industrial growth in given
locations. On the national level, dispersion of industry outward from
Jakarta would be fostered by a number of estates under study in the outly-
ing cities of Cilacap, Surabaya and Medan. Decentralization of industry
is a sound objective, fully in keeping with Government long-range strategy.
To the extent these projects will be implemented, there would, of course, be
some attraction of industry away from the Jakarta area, but given Jakarta's
substantial comparative advantages and the rising volume of investment, it
is unlikely that Jakarta's industrial rate of growth will be significantly
slowed down. Moreover, estates in and around Jakarta, in contrast to those
planned for outlying centers, are needed not so much to attract new industry
but to guide industry already attracted to Jakarta into selected locations
consonant with a long-range growth plan for the city.
2.15      The Government, recognizing that Pulo Gadung is only the first
step in a broad national program, has established within BAPPENAS, the
National Planning Agency, a central office which is to determine policy,
plan strategy and resource allocation, provide technical assistance and
represent the Central Government in all negotiations with project sponsors,
i.e., provincial and municipal authorities. In view of the importance of
estate development to achieving national industry growth objectives, the
current staff of one or two professionals is clearly inadequate and, as a
result, there has been a noticeable lag in the pace at which Pulo Gadung and
other estate projects are maruring. The Bank has recommended establishment
of a Central Industrial Estates Authority with appropriate staff and powers
to carry out the varied functions mentioned above, and the Government has
allo-2ted funds in the 1973/74 budget to initiate the organization of the
Authority.



-7-
III. MARKET
A.   Jakarta's Comparative Advantages
3.01      The growth of manufacturing investment since 1967 has created an
unprecendented demand for industrial land in Jakarta. Despite the efforts
to disperse industry, as already mentioned, it is likely that a dispropor-
tionate amount of new manufacturing facilities will continue to be attracted
to the Jakarta area for the following principal reasons:
(a) Jakarta is the capital and seat of government administration
as well as the financial and business center of the country;
(b) Its population of 5 million provides the major market in
Indonesia. The West Java region, of which Jakarta is the
hub, contains 26 million people or more than 20% of Indone-
sia's total population;
(c) The availability of skilled and unskilled labor;
(d) Infrastructure, while deficient in many respects, is
superior to other locations and likely to improve faster
than elsewhere;
(e)  The Jakarta Municipal Government (DKI) administration is
pragmatic and strongly growth oriented.
3.02      It is not surprising, therefore, that over 70% of the foreign
manufacturing projects approved since 1967 are planned to be located in
the Jakarta area. The domestic investment pattern is less biased in favor
of Jakarta but still shows a disproportionate (about 40%) preference for
this area. The following paragraphs attempt to quantify how much of the
projected investment in manufacturing will be attracted to the Jakarta
area, and what portion of it may reasonably be expected to be "captured" by
the Pulo Gadung estate. To help find answers to these questions, Westing-
house and DKI: (a) analyzed similar projects in other Asian countries (such
as Singapore, Taiwan, Hong Kong, South Korea and Malaysia) with the expecta-
tion that their experience would provide useful indicators of what could be
anticipated to occur in Indonesia given comparable planning, organization
and promotion; (b) reviewed the investment applications filed with the
Investment Board and projected trends; and (c) interviewed some 80 foreign,
joint venture and domestic companies in a variety of situations - in the
exploratory and negotiating stage, seeking sites, under construction, or
already established.



-8-
B.   Demand for Industrial Land in Jakarta
3.03      A review of the growth of estate projects in other Asian countries
where the industrialization process is more advanced than in Indonesia
confirmed two distinct waves of investments - import substitution and
export processing. After adoption of a coherent strategy for industrial
development in those countries - in which estates were only one facet of a
broader program including financial incentives, expanded credit availability,
institutional technical assistance and intensive international promotion -
the resulting first wave of investment was primarily aimed at import substi-
tution and the manufacture of products very similar to those which have
bezn developing most rapidly in Indonesia since 1967.
3.04      Indonesia is clearly experiencing the first wave of import substi-
tution in a manner similar to the Singapore, Malaysia, Taiwan and other
Aksian models. Further, in view of the large population and potential growth
of the internal market in Indonesia, the import substitution phase is expected
tc extend over a longer period and give rise to many more facilities
and much greater investmen. than in other smaller Asian nations.  The implica-
tions of this analysis for the estate project are of fundamental significance.
Import substitution industries typically are light manufacturing plants
falling within the medium- to large-scale category - employing up to 150 or
20C workers and reoreseilting investments in the range of US$0.5 to 3.0 mil-
iion each, Industrial estates respond well to the needs of this sector
and medium-scale firms producing for the internal market have, historically,
been heavily represented in the industrial population of estate projects
in tnany developing countries.
_>.05     The second investment wave comprising export-oriented industries
has just begun in Indonesia, and it can be expected that they will appear
in ircreasing nunbers and that the estate will benefit from this trend as
^:Li as stitmualat.e it still further. Ikese developments suggest a time-
ri- fti  romotion 5trateg--r for the estate geared to the needs of primarily
i..porL suostLtution activities irn the early years and later of the growing
export lpocessing sector.  The init-ial services - prepared land or standard
buildings ready for occupancy, expediting of necessary government permits,
.   assured u-1iities such as power, water and sewage - are common to both
groups.  However, by the late 70's, the estate will probably find it advisable,
if not necessary, to consider the installation of bonded warehouses, a duty-
Cree export processing zone, and trucking services to neet the requirements
of sealed ana controlled movement of goods, and other special facilities for
the export-oriented firm.
3.0i6     Various projections of growth in manufacturing and the related
aeed "Cor industrial land in the Jakarta area have been made, including the
West Lghouse/DKI study, and they all agree that there will be a strong
upswing in manufacturing in the 1972-1976 period as compared to the preced-
ing five years, as shown in the following table:



-9-
Growth of Manufacturing and Land Requirements
in the Jakarta Area
1967-1971             1972-1976
5-year Total  Annual 5-year Total  Annual   Increase
(actual)             (projected)              (X)
New Manufacturing
Plants (units)          200          40          395         79         98
Land Occupied
(hectares)              320          64        1,188        238        272
While new manufacturing plants are expected to be established in the 1972-
1976 five-year period at double the rate of the preceding five years, land
requirements would almost quadruple and increase from 1.6 to 3.0 ha per plant.
This is consistent with the beginning transition to larger export-oriented
plant operations.
3.07      Whether firms will prefer to locate on or off estates requires,
of necessity, considerable subjective evaluation since most firms interviewed
had not studied adequately all the factors involved nor did they have at their
disposal more than tentative figures on alternative prices and terms of sale
or lease. Nevertheless, the evaluated raw data led to the conclusion that
estates could reasonably expect to provide about one-third of all industrial
land requirements in the Jakarta area during the 1972-1976 period or 400 ha
of the total projected demand of 1,200 ha.
C. Available Industrial Land in Jakarta Area
3.08      The Jakarta Master Plan defines six areas for future industrial
development as summarized below, distinguishing between the industrial estate
and industrial zonesl/:
1/ On an industrial zone, each company negotiates its own land and utility
connections and there are no common facilities or other services as on
the centrally managed estates.



- 10 -
Industrial Land Availability - Djakarta Area
Location                                        Estates    Zones
(area in ha)
Gandaria                                           -         200
Antjol/Pluit                                       -         525
Pulo Mas                                           -         358
Tjempaka Putih                                     -         200
Tjilintjing                                        -         250
Pulo Gadung                                      568 /a       -
Total                         568      1,533
/a   Of this total bounded area, 337.5 ha would be net
industrial land (para 4.01), or 85% of the need
projected in para 3.07 for estate based industries
up to 1976.
3.09      The six sites were evaluated in terms of 89 specific criteria
covering size and physical characteristics, ease of access, availability
of utilities and transportation, interaction with adjacent area, cost of
development and other special considerations. The highest rating was achieved
by Tjilitjing, followed closely by Pulo Gadung. Among the attractive features
of Tjilitjing are its proximity both to the harbor and to the Kemajoran Inter-
national Airport; on the other hand, development costs are high because of
the unstable swampy nature of its soil.
D.   Characteristics of the Pulo Gadung Site
3.10      Pulo Gadung, located about 8 kms from both the Jakarta harbor
and airfield, would be connected to them by existing and planned roads. In
addition, it is very favorably placed on both an existing road leading east
to Bekasi and a future highway to Bekasi and Eastern Java, which in recent
years has emerged as one of the two major development arteries out of
Jakarta (the other is south to Bogor). Furthermore, work is advancing well
on improvement and widening of the main connecting road from the center of
Jakarta to the estate. Finally, a railroad passes the site and a spur line
is planned to connect the estate directly with the port areas.
3.11      The site is also close to population concentrations able to
provide adequate labor which could reach the estate either by foot, bicycle
or public transportation. The physical characteristics of the soil at Pulo
Gadung are relatively good, and load bearing capacity is sufficient for all
normal loads for the generally light manufacturing industries expected to
settle on the estate. Potential flooding will be largely avoided by fill
to raise the surface by an average of 0.5 meters, a system of drainage ditches



- 11 -
and realignment of peripheral creeks. Power service to Pulo Gadung is being
expanded and an adequate water supply is planned. The location and physical
characteristics of the site, therefore, are well suited to estate development.
During negotiations, it was agreed that all necessary external infrastructure
and utility connections will be built in step with the estate's requirements.
E.   Industry Structure on the Estate
3.12      The Government has set the following order of priority in granting
industrial investment approvals and it is anticipated that the sectoral
pattern of occupancy of the estate will be weighted in accordance with these
priorities:
(a) Industries which support and complement the agricultural
sector by producing equipment required in agriculture or
by processing agricultural produce;
(b) Industries earning foreign exchange or saving on foreign
exchange by producing import substituting commodities;
(c) Industries processing large quantities of domestic raw
materials;
(d) Labor-intensive industries; and
(e) Industries which by their cumulative effect promote
regional development efforts.
During the initial period of occupancy, a wide array of consumer goods
industries can be expected at Pulo Gadung, as well as larger operations
producing building materials, intermediate goods, small equipment and
appliances, and service and support products. Other metal products and
heavy equipment are expected to follow later with, simultaneously,
increasing export activity.
3.13      Initially, the sources of foreign capital represented on the estate
may be expected to be distributed as follows (in %): Japan (35); USA (30);
Europe (15); Hong Kong (5); Singapore (5); Australia (5); and others (5).
Although based on a limited sample, the emerging pattern (as of June 1973)
indicates that estate industries will be about equally divided between
foreign (including joint ventures with predominantly foreign capital) and
domestic ownership.



- 12 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Scope ana Land Use Pattern
4.01      The project consists of (i) the acquisition of 422.4 ha of land
within the boundaries of the 568.0 ha delineated by DKI at Pulo Gadung for
industrial development (Annex 4); (ii) the development of the acquired land
with roads, a power plant, utility connections and other services for
settlement by industry on individual plots either sold or leased, and a number
of standard factory buildings which would be rented, primarily to small-scale
industries; and (iii) management and technical assistance. Land use is
projected as follows:
Estate Land Use Pattern
Area
(ha)         (%)
Industrial Plots                                    337.5         59.3
Rights of Way                                        41.0          7.3
Management Complex                                    5.9           1.0
Open Space                                           38.0          6.7
Total Acquired and Disposable Land /a          422.4         74.3
Existing Industries /b                               68.0         12.0
Perimeter Village Land and Easement /c               77.6         13.7
Total Bounded Area Administered by Estate
Corooration                                  568.0        100.0
/a"  Land acquired consists of vacant paddy land (254.9 ha), free
standing villages (121.6 ha) and perimeter villages in the
northern half of the estate (45.9 ha).
?   Eihr industries established prior to initiation of estate
operations in 1971; not part of project cost.
!c   Perimeter village land (41.5 ha) inside the southeastern
estate boundary will not be acquired until need for this high
cost land is demonstrated. Land corresponding to the public
utility easement (36.i ha) is not a project cost.
4.02      The estate master plan calls for 146 plots, each to be occupied
by one company. Plot sizes would range between 0.6 and 8.4 ha and would
average 2.3 ha. In addition the estate will provide five 2reconstructed
standard buildings with a combined floor space of 22,400 m for an estimated



- 13 -
40 to 60 small factories. The extent to which the number of companies
finally settling on the estate might vary from the 186 to 206 factories
now expected will depend on the industry mix that will be attracted. Conse-
quently predicted plot sizes will be continually adjusted to actual require-
ments in accordance with the specific needs of occupant companies. Also,
if demand for small-scale industries should exceed present predictions,
additional standard buildings will be constructed.
B.   Estate Development
1.   Land Development and Infrastructure
4.03      The estate will be terraced to ensure adequate surface drainage
and provided with macadam surfaced main and secondary roads, water, sewage
and fire fighting systems as well as electric power and telecommunications
as described in more detail in Annex 5. Originally it was envisaged that
the estate's power requirements, which are expected to reach 180 Mw by 1978,
would be supplied from the public grid. However, between 1974 and 1978 there
is a potential power gap in the Jakarta area of up to 200 Mw and the National
Power Authority (PLN) plans to substantially close this gap by installing a
number of 20 to 30 Mw gas turbine generators. Although PLN has promised the
estate priority treatment in providing power as needed, it was decided to
install a 25 Mw station on the estate to help assure adequate power supply.
4.04      By Indonesian law, all public power plants are owned and operated
by PLN, and this will be true also for the power station on the estate.
It is proposed to allocate US$2.5 million equivalent of the IDA credit to
PLN to cover the estimated foreign exchange requirements of the power plant
(US$3.5 million total cost). A contract would be entered into between PLN
mnd the estate giving the latter "first call" on the power generated but
allowing any surplus to be fed into the public grid. This arrangement
would not only assure increased power supply to the estate, but would help
to close the regional supply/demand gap projected until 1978. During
negotiations, it was agreed that: (a) PLN will provide the estate with
nower on a priority basis, and (b) additional generating or sub-station
capacity will be provided at the appropriate times to meet the growing
estate demand beyond 1975.
2.   Management Complex
4.05      The management complex, consisting of two buildings, will house
all estate management functions, project staff, product displays, conference
rooms, a clinic, post office, and possibly a bank as well as various tenant
services described below.
4.06      Special additional services are planned to enhance the attraction
of the estate to prospective occupants. Estate management and staff
capabilities will be developed progressively to provide assistance in
negotiating government permits and approvals (land use, building, hindrance
ordnance, permits issued by local government and Domestic and Foreign
Investment Boards, Labor Board, Public Health and other approvals issued



- 14-
by Central Government) and in project development (preliminary technical
and economic studies, market surveys, plant design and engineering services,
contractor selection and other consulting services). The first group of
services will be part of the capability of the basic staff (para 4.10);
the second group of services (project development) will grow in accordance
with demand and would require some additional personnel if the activities
become an important part of the service package.
4.07      Further services are contemplated such as a small scale industry
technical assistance staff (para 4.15), a training center for skilled
workers, computer facilities, trucking services, hotel and restaurant, an
equipment leasing company, warehousing (including a bonded warehouse), central
maintenance (electrical, plumbing, etc.), management development programs,
quality control services and marketing assistance. These services, with
the exception of those intended to assist small-scale enterprises, would be
initiated gradually as demand justifies and would be operated on a self-
liquidating basis.
3.   Present Status of the Project
4.08      Pursuant to decrees issued by the DKI Governor, the project was
initiated formally in April 1971. As of December 31, 1972, 100 ha of
estate land had been acquired of which 25 ha had been sold and another 18
ha were under negotiation, and US$2.0 million equivalent had been expended
in land acquisition and development, financed with funds advanced by DKI
and the Central Government and supplemented by the proceeds of land sales.
The operating staff now consists of 30 Indonesians including management (5),
office staff (18) and non-clerical (7). To June 1973, a total of 40 companies
had purchased over 50 ha of land and 11 had started plant construction. This
rate of occupancy is about double the rate predicted in the feasibility study.
C.   Estate Corporation and Management
4.09      The company owning and managing the estate will be a Persoroan 'er-
bata (P.T.) - a limited liability corporation operating under the commercial
code - with share capital provided by the Central Government (50%) and DKI (50%).
Representation on the Board of Supervisors - responsible for determining genera]
policy and supervising the performance of the Board of Directors - will be in
proportion to shareholdings and will consist of officials from various Central
Government and DKI agencies concerned with industrial development and related
fields. The Board of Directors - directly responsible for day-to-day manage-
ment of the corporation will consist of the President and the three Directors
of the operating divisions reporting to the President - (1) Planning, Develop-
ment and Operations; (2) Sales and Marketing; and (3) Finance (Annex 6).
4.10      Mr. Surihandono, who has been managing the project since its
inception in 1971, has been named as President. His training as a lawyer,
previous legal and administrative experience with P.T. Djaya (the largest
construction company in Jakarta), and dynamic personality plus the
experience already gained on the estate itself with Westinghouse assistance
make him an excellent choice for the top management position. In addition



- 15 -
there will be two support departments, "General Affairs" and "General Adminis-
tration," also reporting directly to the President. General Affairs will be
responsible primarily for external liaison and expediting of permits and
other action required from relevant government agencies concerned with industry,
infrastructure and estate operations. The estate is expected to employ a
total of 78 Indonesians by 1974 and continue on that level until 1977 (end
of construction) dropping to 45 by 1980 as a normal operating staff. The
management and operating structure of the corporation is shown in Annex 6.
During the construction period through 1977, staff personnel will be assigned
partly to project development duties and partly to operating functions.
From 1978 on, the project function - basically, planning and development -
will be reduced and a minimum staff would be retained devoted primarily to
estate maintenance and improvement as needed. Sales and marketing, a major
operational activity, would also contract after attainment of full occupancy,
forecast for 1980, and staff could be reduced accordingly.
4.11      Under a management assistance contract entered into on June 15, 1973,
Westinghouse will provide four advisors from its various land development
subsidiaries. As a result of its prime role in prenaring the pre-investment
studies between 1970 and 1972, Westinghouse had achieved a unique capability
in Indonesia - a blend of foreign expertise and experience in land use planning
and development plus total familiarity with the project. The group will be
led by Mr. W. B. Marsh, who has been resident in Indonesia since 1971 as chief
of the feasibility study team, and has been acting as Mr. Surihandono's advisor
since March 1973. The three other Westinghouse advisors will be attached to
the (i) Finance, (ii) Planning, Development and Operations, and (iii) Sales
and Marketing Divisions. The contract will run for 2 years but can be extended
by mutual accord for an additional period of one year. It is difficult to
predict precisely when Indonesian management capabilities will require no
further outside assistance, but it is prudent to assume that at least part of
the 4-man advisory team will remain in Indonesia beyond the initial contract
period. During negotiations it was agreed that any decision to phase out the
contract or terminate it, after its initial period, would be subject to prior
approval by the Association.
4.12      Criteria governing the type of industries acceptable as occupants
and building design standards have been evolving gradually since project
inception but decisions are still being made on a more or less ad hoc
basis. Clearly defined guidelines are needed both from the point of view of
estate management as well as of firms considering the estate as a plant
site. During negotiations, it was agreed that comprehensive guidelines
covering industry suitability and factory building design standards in a
form satisfactory to the Association will be prepared by December 31, 1973.
4.13      No special credit facilities are planned  as part of the project
since the existing private and public banking structure in Indonesia is as
accessible to estate industries as to industries located elsewhere. In
addition, credit programs at BAPINDO and a new private development finance
company (PDFCI), organized with Bank Group assistance, are available to
both domestic and foreign enterprises. Commercial bank credit has been



- 16 -
rising rapidly and the proportion going to industry has been growing even
more rapidly and a new institution, PT Bahana, specifically designed to
assist small-scale industries, will be offering management assistance and
equity capital to small domestic enterprises.
4.14      Promotion of the estate to domestic and foreign firms has not
as yet been undertaken as a planned and comprehensively organized program
since sales of factory plots have been proceeding at a satisfactory rate.
While the encouraging rate of such sales might well continue without any
special effort, experience in other countries indicates that sustained
national and international promotion is an essential ingredient of the
total estate management function. For that reason, the Sales and Marketing
Division includes a section head and staff with the sole responsibility
of carryi-g out all promotion activities under the overall direction of the
Indonesian division manager and the Westinghouse advisor. Operating costs
contain an adequate provision to c;:ver advertising, travel, brochure
publication and other relevant costs. During negotiations it was agreed
that a long-range program of estate promotion will be detailed in a study,
complete with estirated budgets, to be submitted to the Association for
approval by December 31, 1973.
D.   Small Scale Industry Support Services
4.15      Standard factory buildings providing industrial space and utility
connections at reasonable rental for small shops and factories is a new
concept in Indonesia. Such facilities are potentially important contributions
to small-scale industry development but only as part of a broader program
which makes available additional inputs such as credit, technical and manage-
ment assistance. In cooperation with UNDP/UNIDO, the Bank Group and other
international institutions, the Government is currently formulating a national
program designed to stimulate the rational growth of small-scale industries
at-id it is expected that the Pulo Gadung estate will have an important innova-
2ve c-ole to play in the total tffort.
°&>16 NA special office will be organized under the Customer Services
Sectioon (Anrnex. 6) to provide specialized services to small scale enterprises.
it will be staffed by a foreign expert advisor, financed by the Government
th£uOgh one ., the i.ternational grant programs and, initially, three
Indonesians as staff members, paid by the estate project. Functionally, the
office wll;  (i) actively promote the standard buildings by seeking out
s;uitable small industries as occupants; (ii) assist these industries in
improving their production techniques, productivity, quality and overall
efficiency directly and in cooperation with other institutional sources of
technical and management assistance; (iii) assist industries in negotiating
credit from existing development finance sources; and (iv) assist the small
enteiTrises in marketing their products and services specifically as ancil-
laries to the larger industries on the estate as well as generally in the
Jakarta area. In connection with the last function, the office will also
actively promote sub-contracting and the use of competitive labor intensive
techniques to the large firms on the estate. It has already been ascertained



- 17 -
that with an appropriate professional approach based on full awareness of
private enterprise profit maximization goals, the managements of larger firms
on the estate are receptive to the idea of exploring labor intensification
possibilities.
4.17      Although the market survey concluded that the maximum foreseeable
demand by small industries would be met by the planned 22,400 sq. meters
(para 4.02) of standard building space corresponding to 40 to 60 small
factories, it is likely that an active promotional effort, as envisaged, will
generate a need for additional space of this type. If that occurs, further
buildings can be financed without significant negative impact on profitability
even at the concessional rentals to be offered because of the much higher
returns on the major activity, i.e., land sales and leases to large foreign
and domestic firms.
V. PROJECT COSTS, CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE AND FINANCING PLAN
A.   Project Cost
5.01      Estimated capital costs, not including the power plant which is
not part of the estate's assets, are summarized below from Annex 7:
Estate Capital Cost Estimate
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   %
(Rupiah millions)        (US$ millions)
Land Acquisition              3,196    -       3,196    7.7    -          7.7  23.7
Land Development              3,319   2,275   5,594    8.0    5.5        13.5  41.5
Buildings                       507      248     755    1.2    0.6        1.8   5.5
Housing                         159       53     212    0.4    0.1        0.5   1.5
Misc. Assets                     42      101      143    0.1    0.3       0.4   1.2
Consulting & Engineering        207      332     539    0.5    0.8        1.3   4.0
Sub-Total                7,430   3,009  10,439   17.9    7.3        25.2  77.4
Contingencies (5%)              372      150     522    0.9    0.4        1.3   4.0
Price Escalation (10% p.a.) 1,697        831   2,528    4.1    1.9        6.0  18.6
Total Fixed Assets       9,499   3,990  13,489   22.9    9.6        32.5 100.0
Net Working Capital           6,225    -       6,225   15.0       -       15.0  46.2
Total Financing Required   15,724   3,990  19,714   37.9    9.6          47.5 146.2
Project costs were estimated in early 1972 independently by each of the two
largest and most experienced construction companies in Djakarta - P.T. Djaya
and P.N.P.P. - from preliminary plans prepared by Westinghouse. A further
check was provided by Gilmour and McDougall (Pty) Ltd. of Australia, a



- 18 -
consulting firm of construction engineers. The foreign exchange component
of the project (excluding working capital) is about 33% and consists primarily
of steel, pipe and other imported construction materials, the telephone ex-
change and sewage treatment plant.
5.02      Because the preliminary designs and cost estimates were prepared
in greater detail than is usual in feasibility studies, a physical contingency
of only 5% is considered adequate. The annual price escalation of 10% is the
weighted average of an assumed rupiah inflation of 10 to 11% per year and
foreign exchange inflation of 8% per annum. A check of actual costs since
the start of construction in early 1972 through February 1973 (the latest
data available) shows that they have been running about 5 to 10% below the fore-
casts, confirming the general accuracy of the cost estimates. Working
capital requirements are substantial and are primarily due to deferred
payments on the sale of factory plots as discussed further below.
B.   Construction Schedule
5.03      Land acquisition was initiated in 1971 and, land and infrastructure
development in early 1972. As shown in Annex 8, the bulk of land purchases
(377.5 ha) are expected to be completed in 1974 and only perimeter village
land (45.9 ha) is assumed to be acquired in 1975 and 1976. 1/ Estate
development will reach a peak in 1974/75 and completion of the project is
scheduled in 1977 (Annex 9). Most of the land will be ready for occupancy
by the end of 1975 and the expenditures indicated in 1976 and 1977 correspond
to the development of the small amount of village land and completion of
infrastructure.
5.04      The construction schedule is based on the conservative assumption
that occupancy will follow prepared land availability with a maximum lag of
three years - implying full occupancy by 1980. However, if occupancy were
to drop below the predicted rate, development expenditures could be stretcaed
out accordingly. Present indications are, however, that the projected
construction schedule is realistic and, if anything, could safely be acceier-
ated. During negotiations, the Government agreed that estate management
would continually reassess the rate of occupancy and adjust the construction
schedule accordingly.
C.  Financing Plan
5.05      Projected financing of the project (excluding the power plant), would
consist of share-capital provided by the Central Government (50%) and DKI (50%),
the estate's internally generated funds, the proceeds of the IDA credit and
local bank credits as summarized below:
I_/ Footnote 1 to Table, para 4.01.



- 19 -
Financing Plan
Rp. Million   US$ Million
Equity
Central Government (50%)                1,453            3.5
DKI (50%)                               1,453            3.5
Total Share Capital                2,905            7.0
Internally Generated Funds                   9,545           23.0
Debt
IDA Credit - Long Term                  5,810           14.0
Local Banks - Medium Term               1,45             3.5
Total Debt                         7,262           17.5
Total Financing                   19,713           47.5
IDA's contribution to the estate of US$14 million equivalent would be made
to the Government on standard credit terms and relent to the estate corpora-
tion at 12% interest, the current rate for development loans in Indonesia,
with repayment over 11 years including 5 years grace. The US$3.5 million
equivalent from local banks will be available on medium term at an assumed
interest rate of 18% (para 7.09). These relatively short repayment periods
are feasible because of the build-up of revenues, and thus of internally
generated funds, which, in view of the nature of the project, are projected
to "balloon" in the early years. This is due to the anticipated high pro-
portion of land sales on cash or 3-year payment terms as compared to longer-
term land sales and leased land and is discussed in more detail in para 7.01.
Interest during construction is not capitalized and will be paid out of
revenue. During negotiations the Government and DKI agreed that (a) their
respective equity contributions will be made as required by the progress of
the project and (b) they will provide additional funds, should they be needed
to complete the estate development, on terms satisfactory to the Association.
5.06      As already explained in para 4.04, PLN will construct and own
the power plant on the estate, estimated to cost US$3.5 million equivalent.
The proceeds of the IDA credit component of US$2.5 million for the foreign
exchange portion of the power plant will be provided to PLN as equity, i.e.,
on the same terms as already established for IDA power credits in Indonesia.
The remaining US$1.0 million required would be financed by Government funds
also as equity. During negotiations, it was agreed that the proceeds of the
IDA credit will be passed on to PLN as equity, that the residual financing
will become available as required by an agreed construction schedule and
that the Government will cover any cost overrun should it occur.



- 20 -
VT. PROCUREMENT, USE OF CREDIT AND RATE OF DISBURSEMENT
6.01      Development work contracts already completed or underway are
estimated to amount to US$2.8 million equivalent and will not be eligible for
IDA disbursement. This is not expected to be a constraint on the progress of
the project since current cash flow (primarily from the sale of factory plots)
and the equity contributions from the Central Government and DKI are adequate
to meet the cost of the contracts not eligible for IDA disbursements. To
the remaining contracts, for both civil works and equipment, international
competitive bidding along IDA guidelines will apply. The scope, number and
size of bid packages were agreed upon during negotiations.
6.02      It has been calculated that the estate contracts (excluding the
power plant) that would be eligible for IDA disbursement will amount to
US$22.0 million, of which the proposed IDA credit of US$14 million for the
estate would be 64%. After review of the bid packages during negotiations,
the percentage disbursement of IDA funds were agreed to as follows: material
and equipment, 100% of foreign expenditures; civil works, 65% of work-done
certificates; consulting and engineering services, 100% of foreign expenditures.
The total cost of consulting and engineering services (US$1.3 million)
includes an estimated US$0.6 million for the project management services to
be provided under terms of a contract directly negotiated with Westinghouse
(para 4.11). During negotiations, the Association reviewed the contract in
detail and found the terms and conditions internationally competitive.
Foreign exchange expenditures incurred under this contract after the date of
the Credit Agreement will be eligible for reimbursement. The remaining
engineering and consulting services, totalling an estimated US$0.7 million.
will be contracted under current IDA guidelines. As for the power
plant, IDA would disburse the additional US$2.5 million against 100% of the
foreign exchange expenditures.
6.03      The direct foreign exchange component of US$12.1 million is only
33.6% of project cost (including the power plant but not working capital),
and a portion of the IDA funds - US$4.4 million or 26.7% of the US$16.5
million - is therefore required to cover local currency expenditures. This
is justified since IDA's contribution would still amount to only 45.8% of
project cost (and less than 33% of the total financing required). No ana-
lysis has been made of the indirect foreign exchange component (such as
for imported materials purchased locally and depreciation of imported
construction equipment) but, based on a detailed study recently prepared
for a similar project in another developing country, this might be
expected to amount to 10% of the local currency costs or US$2.2 million.
Total direct and indirect foreign exchange requirements (US$14.3 million)
might therefore be about 87% of the US$16.5 million IDA credit.



- 21 -
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS -/
A.   Revenue
7.01      Based on the demand forecast and the experience to date in selling
and leasing land at Pulo Gadung, the projected prices for the 337.5 ha of
industrial plots and the contractual form in which the plots and pre-con-
structed factory buildings will be disposed of are summarized below:
Prices and Land Disposition Pattern
Projected
Actual   Annual Price       Land
Land Sales                                  1973 Price  Increments  Disposition
(Rp/sq.m.)      (%)    (Hectares) (%)
Cash                                        3,800          15       34.0      10.0
3-Year Terms                                4,800          15      236.0      70.0
10-Year Terms                               6,085          15       34.0      10.0
Land Leases (Annual Rate)                       494          15        30.0       8.9
Building Rental (Annual Rate)                 6,225          12         3.5      1.1
Total     337.5    100.0
The projected unit prices and total revenue build-up in land sales, leases
and building rentals, based on the annual increments over the starting rates
of 1973 as given in the above table, are shown in Annexes 10 and 11. Mortgage
receivables, i.e., debt obligations on deferred payment contracts covering
land sales, are detailed in Annex 12. As explained in the addendum to Annex
10, purchase of land on the estate confers on the purchasing firm only the
right to use the land, including erecting buildings, for a period of 30 years.
The land does not belong to the firm. In effect, the "purchase" is a pre-paid
30-year lease which can be renewed for additional periods by mutual agreement.
It is the usual practice for estate corporations to control land
speculation by constraining to the extent practicable the freedom of estate
occupants to sell land and buildings at excessively inflated prices. In the
case of Pulo Gadung, the terms of resale have not been defined as yet and
during negotiations agreement was reached that appropriate conditions will
be formulated and submitted to the Association for approval by December 31,
1973.
7.02      The base rates for 1973 are no higher than rates for competitive
sites in the Jakarta area and have been confirmed as attractive by actual
sales, which are running well ahead of the predicted rate. Deferred
payment 3-year land sales contracts have already been established as the
preferred alternative by medium/large scale firms, in part probably because
1/   This chapter deals only with the estate, not including the power plant.



- 22 -
the 15% implied interest on unpaid balances in the sales price is somewhat
lower than the average cost of money in Indonesia of 18% per annum. However,
some foreign firms may assume lower (international) rates of interest on
their capital, and it is expected, therefore, that a number of them will pay
cash. One such cash sale has already been concluded.
7.03      Small domestic firms will generally be attracted by three options:
(1) 10-year terms on land purchases; (2) land leasing; and (3) building
rentals, all at the rates given in the above table. While some of the "larger"
firms in the small scale sector may be interested in the first two options
and build their own factories, it is believed that the bulk of the firms in
this sector will prefer to rent space in standard buildings. The proposed
building rental rates have been set at a lower level than generally avail-
able in Jakarta and both the starting rate and assumed annual increment
of only 12% (compared to 15% applicable to land sales or leases) are a form
of planned subsidy to snall scale domestic industries. The impact on earnings
is not significant, however, since the maximum demand projected for standard
building space will renresent onlv a small percentage of the total disposable
land. During negotiatictes it was agreed that foreign firms, with more finan-
cial resources at their disposal, would not be offered 10-year payment terms
on land purchases.
7.04      Land leases and building rental contracts will be renewable every
five years and, during each five year period, the rates will remain fixed.
In the financial projections it has been assumed that both lease and rental
rates will be increased by 50% at each renewal but this may be adjusted
either up or down to maintain Pulo Gadung competitive with other industrial
sites offered or to achieve other objectives as discussed further below.
Since the 50% increase for renewed 5 year land leases and building rentals
will represent considerably less of an increase than the 15% and 12% annual
increments on contracts starting in future years (which over the same five-year
period would result in 100% and 76% increases respectively), there is a
de~-`L:2te incentive to settle on the estate as early as possible.
7.05      Furthermore, both the 1-year increase of 50% and the 15% annual
incremeint of land sales and leasing prices are based on a conservative
prviectio. of expected land values, at least in the foreseeable future.
In the Jakarta area, land prices have been rising at an annual rate of 20
to 30% over the last few years. As a matter of fact, the projected incremen-
tal sales, lease and rental prices have been set high enough to yield an
acceptable firancial return but, at the same time, lower than expected
prices for alternatives in the Jakarta area; this is in keeping with the
Government's objective of using the estate as a tool to help retard speculative
land price increases in the future.
7.06      Based on the assumptions discussed above, the expected revenue
buildup between 1972 and 1983 is summarized below from Annex 11:



- 23 -
Revenue Buildup, 1972-1983
(US$ millions)
Construction
1972 1973 1974 1975 1976 1977 1978 1979 1980 1981 1982 1983
(actual)
Land Sales /a        2.4  3.5  5.0  6.8  8.0  9.2 10.6  6.2  2.5  -    -    -
Land Leases           -    -   0.1  0.2  0.2  0.3  0.4  0.6  0.7  0.7  0.8  0.8
Building Rental       -    -   0.1  0.1  0.2  0.2  0.3  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.5
Miscellaneous Income -    -    -    -   0.2  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.1 0.1  0.1
Total                2.4  3.5  5.2  7.1  8.6 10.0 11.6  7.5  3.9  1.2  1.3  1.4
/a   In line with normal practice, land sales revenue is here shown as booked
in total in the year of sale even if some payments are made in the
succeeding years.
The above table shows the "balloon" effect on revenue projected during the
early years of the project, as mentioned in para 5.05. Land available
for sale is expected to be exhausted in 1980, according to the projected
pattern of land disposition. Lease and rental revenues, however, will con-
tinue to increase and annual revenue will rise steadily after the low point
in 1981.
7.07      During negotiations it was confirmed that with respect to sales
and lease rates: (i) the starting rates in 1973 (actually in use) are
those given in para 7.01; (ii) the rates used in the financial projections
in the subsequent years reflect fairly the rate policy of the estate corp-
oration, the Government and DKI; (iii) that it will be the objective of
financial management of the estate corporation to set prices in such a way
that they will permit development of the estate, recovery of equity capital
at an acceptable return of no less than 10% in real terms and repayment of
debt incurred for the project within the periods stipulated in the projec-
tions; and (iv) that after repayment of the debt, fees would be charged for
land leased, buildings rented and services rendered that would allow the
estate to cover its expenses and earn a reasonable return in the use of its
funds. During negotiations, the Government also agreed that land sale and
land and building rental rates will be reviewed at least once a year with
IDA.
B. Income and Cash Flow Forecasts
7.08      Projected income and cash flow statements are summarized below
from Annexes 13 and 14:



Summarized Income and Cash Flow Statement, 1972-1973 -
(US$ Umillions)
Incouie                        it-72   1.913    -974    1975    1976    19-7   .1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
(actual)
Revenue                         2.4     3.5       ,2     7,1      8.6    10.0    11.5       7.5      3.9     1.2      1.3      1.4
Cost of Land Sold               1.8     2.2      (.8     3.3      3.3      3.3     3.3      1.7     0.6       -        -        -
Operating Cost                  0.1     0.3      o.4     0.4      0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5     0.4      0.5      0.5      0.5
Depreciation                     -      0.2      O.3     0.5      0.7      0.7     0.7      0.6     o.4      0.4      0.4      0.4
Interest                                0.3       J1      1.7     1.9     1.7      1.7      1.5     1.2      1.0      0.7     0.4
Income before Tax            .   5       .s5     0,6     1.2      2.3      3.7     5.4      3.3      1.1    (0.7)   (0.3)    0.1
Tax                             0.2     0.1                                0.8     2.4      1.5      0.5                        -
Net Income                      0.3     0,4      0,6     1.2      2.3      2.9     2.9      1.8     0.6    (0.7)   (0.3)    0.1
Source of Funds
Net Income                      0.3     0.4      C.6      1.2     2.3      2.9     2.9      1.8     0.6    (0.7)   (0.3)    0.1
Depreciation                     -      0.2       . 3    0.5      0.7      0.7     0.7      0.6     0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4
Cost of Land Sold --            1.8     2.2      2,8     3.3      3.3      3.3     3.3      1.7     0.6       -        -        -
Paid-in-Equity                  2.8     1.6              08                         -        -        -       -
Increase in Debt                 -      4. 8     ry.8    4.1      1.8      1.0      -        -        -       _        -        _
Total Sources                   5.0     9.2    11.3      9.9      8.1      7.9     7.0      4.1      1.7    (0.3)    0.1       0.5
Application of Funds
Land acquisition and
development                 1.9     8.1     9.3      6.8      3.0     1.3      0.4      0.4      -        -        -        -
Debt Repayment                   -       -        -        -      2.4      1.1     1.7      1.9      2.1     2.4      2.7      3.1
Increase (decrease) in
mortgage receivables          1.8     1.8      1.7      2.5     2.2      2.1     2.3    (1.6)   (4.2)   (3.1)   (1.2)   (0.9)
Total Applications              3.7     9.9    11.0      9.3      7.6      4.5     4.3      0.7    (2.1)   (0.7)    1.5        2.2
Surplus (deficit)               1.2    (0.7)   (0.4)    0.6       0.5      3.4     2.6      3.3     3.7      0.4    (1.4)   (1.7)
Cumulative Surplus              1.2    (0.5)    0.8       1.4     1.9      5.4     8.0    11.3    15.0    15.4    14.0    12.3
Debt service coverage (IDA)          -            -        -       -        -      1.9      2.1      2.1     1.1      0.6      0.5
a/  Due to rounding of numbers when converting "thousands" in Ainnexes 13 and 14 to "millions" in this summary table,
there is an occasional apparent difference of 1/10 of a million in individual numbers, but bottom lines are consistent.
b/  The cost of land sold is a source of funds in the cash flow statement.  For an explanation of this bookkeeping device,
which is standard practice in land development, see note in Annex 14.



- 25 -
Revenues have been discussed in the preceding paragraphs and operating costs
together with the underlying assumptions are detailed in Annex 15. Depreciation
on buildings has been assumed at 5% per year and on other fixed assets at
10% per year.  Operating expenses projected are higher than those projected
either in the feasibility study or currently projected by estate management
since it has been concluded that insufficient allowance has been made for
the upward pressure on salaries and wages clearly apparent in Jakarta. In
order to assure the necessary quality of management and staff and to avoid
the inefficiencies of excessive personnel turnover, Annex 15 assumes that
salaries and wages will run 25% higher than forecast by the feasibility
study.
7.09      Financial charges consist of the interest (12%) on the IDA credit
and an assumed intetest rate of 18% per annum on a line of credit of US$3.5
million equivalent from local banks. The 18% interest rate is a conservative
assumption; while it corresponds to the current "prime" commercial rate,
BAPINDO, the government development bank, makes working capital loans at 12%
and it is likely that at least part of the need will be met from this source.
In 1981 and 1982 - due to the assumed pattern of land sales and rentals - there
is expected to be a small loss but profits are anticipated to be restored in
1983 and increase steadily thereafter. A tax holiday of four years, from the
date of incorporation in mid-1973 to mid-1977 has been proposed to the Govern-
ment by the estate management and was confirmed during negotiations. After
mid-1977, the standard Indonesian corporate income tax rate of 45% has been
applied.
7.10      The line of credit mentioned in the preceding paragraph is expected
to be repaid during 1976 and 1977 as available cash permits and before re-
payment to the Government of the IDA credit begins in 1978. Despite the
rapid repayment of the IDA credit (1978 through 1983), surplus cash is
expected to increase to US$15 million by 1980 and will thus permit continued
repayment of the IDA credit in the following two years when debt service
coverage would fall below one.  While it is prudent to repay the IDA credit
quickly, it is also evident that - particularly during the construction
period - still further local borrowing may be required for working capital
should a combination of events occur: (i) estate occupancy might be somewhat
slower than expected and thus development expenditures would run further
ahead of assumed revenues; (ii) the pattern of land disposition may yield
a higher proportion of longer term land sales or land lease and factory
rentals; or (iii) it might be necessary or appropriate to purchase land at
a somewhat quicker rate than assumed in the forecast. During negotiations
it was agreed that the Government would provide, or cause to be provided,
adequate working capital funds in order not to hamper timely development and
occupancy of the estate.
C.   Balance Sheets and Audits
7.11      Projected balance sheets of the estate corporation are given in
Annex 16. They indicate that the current ratio, which relates cash and
mortgage receivables (current assets) to the current portion of long-term



- 26 -
debt (current liabilities), remains in excess of 3:1 throughout the period
of repayment of the credit. The debt/equity ratio is highest (60:40) at the
end of 1975 but is expected to decline to about 40:60 at the end of construction
in 1978 and to continue declining quickly thereafter.
7.12      No dividends have been assumed during the time of debt repayment
but the anticipated high current ratios should permit dividend payments
without impairing debt service capability. Given the uncertainties of
predicting occupancy and revenue 10 years into the future, and the fact
that in the last two years of IDA credit repayment, debt service coverage
would be below one and debt service would therefore have to be met out of
the cumulative earned surplus, it was agreed during negotiations that payment
of dividends or other forms of cash distribution will not be allowed should,
as a consequence of such payment, the current ratio of the estate corporation
fall below 3:1.
7.13      As agreed during negotiations, the corporation's accounts will be
audited annually by an independent auditing firm acceptable to the Associa-
tion. An initial audit of the project's books as of February 28, 1973
undertaken by Arthur Young & Co. was reviewed during negotiations.
D.   Financial Return
7.14      The project return in constant terms calculated in Annex 17 over 20
years of operations is 13.4% before tax including a residual value of US$14.8
million.  The residual value was calculated as the sum of the real value of
land remaining in the possession of the estate in 1992 plus 50% of the original
value of buildings.  This calculation eliminates all inflation but leaves a
5% per annum real increase in developed land values and derived rentals because
of land scarcity - clearly a conservative assumption in Jakarta.
7.15      A further test was made to determine the financial return on a cur-
rent value basis as shown in Annex 17. On this basis, the financial return
is 20.4%.
7.16      The analytical tests applied demonstrate that the financing plan
for the estate - share capital of US$7.0 million, long-term (IDA) debt of
US$14.0 million, medium term (local banks) debt of US$3.5 million and inter-
nally generated funds of US$23.0 million - is feasible. Projected earnings
follow a curve which permits a six-year payback of the IDA credit after the
five-year grace period. In line with with the Government policy of enhancing the
economic and social benefits of the project, land sales and land and building
rental rates have been set at levels which provide an adequate financial
return but still lower than could be charged if profit maximization were
the objective. Appropriate provisions for periodic review and adjustment
of the projected rates have been attached to the proposed credit agreement
to ensure that financial profitability will not be compromised in the
future. The financial return of 13.4% in constant terms is even more attractive
when considered in the light of the substantial economic and social benefits
discussed in the next chapter.



- 27 -
VIII.  ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL BENEFITS
8.01      It is recognized that the economic and social benefits of an
industrial estate should be measured on an incremental basis, i.e., net
benefits directly attributable to the estate. These would be the increased
employment, production, fiscal income, and other benefits over and above
what would have occurred in the absence of the project. Since there is no
generally accepted methodology to quantify and compare the benefits generated
with and without the estate, the paragraphs following will present our best
estimates of gross benefits and indicate, on a judgemental basis, what
proportion might be the net generated by the estate.
A.   Acceleration of Industrial Investment
8.02      Prepared industrial areas ready for occupancy can significantly
reduce the time between project conception and start-up of operations. If
we assume that 146 medium/large companies settle on Pulo Gadung (para 4.02)
and the average investment per company is US$5 million - the range would be
US$1 million for medium scale domestic firms to US$8-10 million for large
foreign firms, based on the experience to date - total capital invested
would total about US$700 million. Capital invested in small scale industries
in the 5 standard buildings might add another US$4.0 to 5.0 million. It is
known that firms often are discouraged by excessive complications in land
acquisition and bureaucratic procedures in obtaining necessary government
permits and, as a result, either cancel or postpone for many years their
planned investments. Available data indicates that the average delay in
Indonesia between project approval and start of construction is of the order
of 2 years. Locating on the estate will reduce this time interval to an
estimated 6 months maximum so that the benefits of such investments will
begin to accrue about one and one half years earlier than would be the case
when locating off the estate. If we further assume that one out of five
companies would have cancelled their projects in the absence of the immediately
available land, utilities and general assistance offered by the estate - a
ratio considered quite credible by several business sources in Jakarta
familiar with the development problems of Indonesia - 20% of the gross in-
vestment or US$140 million would never take place. This 20% component may
be termed the incremental benefit factor of the estate and will be applied in
the following paragraphs.
B.   Employment
8.03      Permanent employment in the operation of the estate will be small
but, during construction, there will be considerable employment in building
the infrastructure. Employment in the companies operating on the estate
can be approximated from the information available on the companies already
installed. At full occupancy, an average of 150 workers per ha can be
expected corresponding to 45,600 workers on the 304 ha occupied by individual
factories plus up to 300 workers per ha or 9,900 total on the 33 hectares



- 28 -
occupied by smaller and more labor intensive industries (including those
housed in the standard factory buildings). Of the total job creation of
55,500, perhaps 20% or 11,100 might be directly attributable to the estate.
A large proportion of the jobs will require training and skill upgrading,
responsibility for which has been shouldered primarily be the industries
themselves in the past. As one feature of the total service package, estate
management is pl-r.ning skilled worker training programs and this should
enhance the appeal of the estate to the prospective occupants.
C.   External and Internal Economies
8.04      The concentration of industries on the estate, as opposed to the
haphazard and dispersed pa ttern which would occur otherwise, greatly facil-
itates rational planning and installation of external infrastructure (power,
water, sewage, roads, etc.). Costs will be lower since external networks
will be less dispersed and time schedules for planning and implementation
compressed.  Within the estate, there will be internal economies resulting
from lower capital investment per factory because of common utilities and
services.
D.   Social Benefits
8.05      With e:a'-ne management supervising the quality, cleanliness and
appearance of factories as well as standards of employee services, the
working environment will be greatly improved, particularly among the domes-
tic firms. Among the common facilities foreseen are (i) restaurants and
canteens (many small firms make no provision for lunch facilities), (ii) park
areas and athletic fields. Air pollution control stanJards will be enforce-
able and the comm,o:n sewage treatment complex will eliminate liquid and solid
waste problems.  TowTn planning in the environs of the estate including housing
and transprotatWc.,-n, schoolss hosp6.tals, and other social infrastructure can
be developed mote efficiently.
E.   Indigenous 7rtrepreneurship developement
8.U6      A uiumber of the industries already established are joint ventures
of mixed for,P     and 1ocal capital.  Future growth can be expected to show a
rising trend in local participation as domestic capital accumulation and
local management capabilities grow. In the small scale industry sector,
growth is expe:te to accelerate in response to the need for ancillary
suppl'ly O F servic-s, }  arts and cwomponents to the large industries.  Estate
management is planning to implement an organized program of small scale
industry development which will be coordinated with larger national programs
curreiitly under stud'y.   The estate will provide a matrix facilitating the
efficient programming of management training for small scale industries
attracted to Pulo Gadung.



- 29 -
F.   Fiscal Benefits
8.07      Through 1983, after full debt repayment, the project will have paid
taxes of US$5.6 million, according to paragraph 7.08, and there will be a
cumulative surplus of US$12.0 million (some of which may have been paid out
as dividends in earlier years). Thereafter, net income will increase steadily
from about US$0.5 million in 1984 to US$1.8 million in 1993, assuming an
average increase of 15% per annum, or a total cumulative income of US$5.6
million in the 10-year period available for distribution. Taxes paid during
the same interval will total US$4.5 million. The major fiscal income generated
by the estate, however, will be the taxes paid by the occupant companies. As
a rough approximation, by 1985 (when all tax holidays have run out) capital
investment of US$700 million should be producing at least US$1 billion per
annum in gross product value. If we assume a modest 10% taxable income on
sales, or US$100 million, taxes paid in 1985 would be US$45 million increas-
ing in the ensuing years through normal growth.  It is assumed that 20% of
the accrued fiscal benefits are attributable to the estate.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations, the Government agreed that;
(a) all necessary external infrastructure and utility
connections will be built in step with the estate's
requirements (para 3.11);
(b) the Government will supply any additional funds to
PLN as necessary (i) to complete the 25 Mw power station
on the estate, (ii) install additional generating or
sub-station capacity to meet the estate's power demand,
and (iii) there will be satisfactory contractual arrange-
ments between the estate and PLN assuring the estate of
priority power (paras 4.04 and 5.06);
(c) IDA's approval will be obtained before phasing out
or terminating the Westinghouse technical assistance
contract (para 4.11);
(d) estate regulations governing industry and building standards
will be satisfactory to the Association (para 4.12);
(e) a long range program of national and international
promotion satisfactory to the Association will be
prepared and implemented (para 4.14);
(f) the estate corporation will continually reassess the
rate of occupancy and adjust the rate of estate
development accordingly (para 5.04);



- 30 -
(g)  the Government and DKI will make their respective
equity contributions as required by the progress of the
project and will, if needed, provide additional funds
on terms satisfactory to IDA to complete development
of the estate (para 5.05);
(h)  the Government will make available the prQceeds of
the IDA credit to the estate corporation as debt
and to PLN as equity on terms satisfactory to the
Association (paras 5.05 and 5.06);
(i)  terms on which land and buildings may be resold will
be satisfactory tQ the Association (para 7.01);
(j)  foreign firms of adequate financial strength will not be
offered 10-year payment terms on land purchases (para 7.03);
(k) starting rates for laud sales, land lease tand building
rentals in 1973 will be established in accordance
with the schedule in para 7.01 and there will be
periodic reviews with IDA of proposed rate increments
(para 7.07);
(1)  a 4-year tax holiday will be granted (para 7.09);
(m)  the Government will provide, or cause to b4 provided,
adequate working capital duvring development of the
estate (para 7.10);
(n)  payments of dividends in cash or other forms of cash
distribution will be restricted (para 7.12); and
(o)  the estate corporation's accounts will be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association
(para 7.13).
9.02      In view of the foregoing agreements, the project provi4, a,
suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$16.5 million equivalent to the
Government of Indonesia on normal IDA terms.
Industrial Projects Dept.
July 27, 1973



ANNEX 1
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF THE PULO GADUNG INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
SIZE DISTRIBUTION OF INDUSTRIES (1964 CENSUS)
% of Total Employees      Average Number of
Who Are Employed in         Employees per
Establishments of        Establishment
Each Size             Each Size
Small  Medium   Large   Small-1    Medium 1 La
Branch of Industry
Food                                    77        9      14      2.3         14         323
Beverages                               26      46       27      3.0         15         173
Tobacco                                 49      18       34       4.9        26         243
Textiles                                41      38       21       2.0        17         206
Clothing and Footwear                   94       4        3      1.6         19         100
Wood and Wood Products                  96        3       1       1.7        -14        108
Purniture and Fixtures                  86      13        1       2.1        14          83
Paper and Paper Products                24      34       41       2.0        27         231
Printing and Publishing                 11      38       51      4.7         17         130
Leather and Leather Products            38      35       27      1.8         17          82
Rubber Products                         15       22      64       3.0        25         186
Chemical and Chemical Products          28      27       46      3.6         19         218
Non-Metallic Mineral Products           85       10       6       2.3        18         128
Metal Products                          72       14      14       2.4        15         141
Machinery (non-electrical)               9       24      67       1.8        17         204
Electrical Machinery                    54      13       33       2.3        16         125
Transport Equipment                     62       23      16      1.6         15         107
Miscellaneous Manufacturing             82      11        7      1.7         17         115
TOTAL                           70      2        16      2.1         17        215
1/  Up to 5 workers using powered equipment (to distinguish small industry from artisan
handicrafts).
2/ 6 to 50 workers.
3/ over 50 workers.
Note -  Although the figures in this table correspond to the 1964 census, the size
distribution percentages have not changed significantly and are consistent
with the "macro'! findings of the 1970 census. The 1964 census data was more
detailed, especially in its survey of small scale industries, and tlerefore
its data was used in this table.
Industrial Projects Department
July 27, 1973






ANNEX 2
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF THE PULO GADUNIG INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
INDUSTRIAL STRTTJCTJRE 1970 
Value       Share of small  Value added  Value added
added       scale industry    of small       of larger
Industry                   in million   in % of value   scale indu-  scale industnr i3
US $          added         stry in mil- million US $
lion US $
1. Food, beverages a. tobacco
1.1  Food                    207.1             60            124.3           82.9
1.2  Beverages                15.3             50              7.6            7.6
1.3  Tobacco                  68.8             30             20.6           48.2
Subtotal                291.2             52            152.6          138.7
2. Textiles
2.1  Spinning                   7.6              _             _              7.6
2.2  Weaving                 118.1             45             53.2           65.0
2.3  Dyeing and finishing       2.6             -              -              2.6
Subtotal                128.3             41.4           53.2           75.2
3. Clothing and footwear
3.1  Clothing                 10.1               -             -             10.1
3.2  Footwear                  1.9                                            1.9
Subtotal                 12.0              -                            12.0
4. Wood products
4.1  Wood manufacturing       19.81/           80             16.0            3.8
4.2  Furniture and fixtures  56.1              50             28.1           28.1
Subtotal                 75.91/           58,o           44.1           31.9
5. Paper and paper products        4.4            10                .4           4.0
6. Printing and publishing        13.6             50             6.8            6.8
7. Leather products                9.6             75             7.2            2.4
8. Rubber products                12.4             40              5.0           7.4
I/ Estimate of Wilhelm Boucherie, Bappenas economist (Ford Foundation Program), May 1971



ANNEX 2 - 2
Value      Share of small Value added  Value added of
added      scale industry    of small      larger
Industry                in million    in % of value   scale indus- scale industry
US $          added         try in mil-   million US $
-----------________________ ----_____ ___________            lion  US  $
9. Chemicals, petroleum
and coal products
9.1  Chemicals                46.8             40           18.7            28.1
9.2  Pharmaceuticals           4.5            10              .4             4.0
Q.3  Refinery products         3.8              -             -              3.8
9.4  Others                     .6           100              .6              -
Subtotal                55.7             35.5          19.8           35.9
10. Non-metallic mineral
products
10.1 Stone a. clay product    6.1             50             3.1             3.1
10.2 Glass products            3.0            10              .3             2.7
10.3 Cement                    8.6            10              .9             7.7
1O,L41 Others                  1.6            90             1.4              .2
Subtotal               19,3              29.4           5.7            13.6
11. Basic metals                 14.4              35            5.0             9.3
12. Metal products
12.1.  abricated metaI oro-
ducts exc. machinery
a. equipment            6.7              60             4.0            2.7
2 ;7l Žufacture a. re-
pDai.ring of machin.
exc. electr. mach.       2.3             50             1.2            1.2
'23 Iia1mf, a. repair.
of electr. machinery
appa-rat-us, appliean-
ces and supplies         1,5                             -              1.5
12 J. L.ana£. a. repairinC
of transport equip.    85.8              60            51.5           34.3
Subtotal               96.4              58.7          56.6           39.7
Total    - 12                   733.01/            48.5        356.2           376.8
1/ Fi~gures in these rows have been adjusted by IBRD estimate to eliminate logging
from "Wood manufacturing".
InJustrial Projects Thepartment
July 27, 1973



ANNEX 3
INDONESIA
APPRATSML OF TE PTl.O GADUTN  TNTISqTRTAT T
APPROVED FOREIGN MANUFACTURING f]VESTIENTS IN
-INDOINESIA BY COUNTRY AND TYPE, 1967 -mid-1971
Hong
Industry Type:             USA   Europe  Japan S'pore    n   Malay  Australia  Other
Pharmaceuticals             13     15       3                              1        1
Food & Beverages             3      9       5     4       2                2        1
Textiles                     1             13             3                         2
Chemicals, Petro-
chemicals                1              1     2       4      1        1         1
Appliances                   2       1      2     1       4      5
T.V. Sets & Radios                   1
Containers:
Metal                              1                    5                1
Glass                                                                   1
Paper                             1                     1                1        1
Sheet Metal                  2              3             1
Steel Mill
Batteries                    1       1      1
Cosmetics                    4              1
Electronic Assembly          1
Machinery, Heavy Equip.              2      2
Metal Fabrication            1       1      1     3                                 1
Office Operations
(e.g., Engineering)        3      2                    1
Cigarettes                   1       1      1     1              1
Tobacco Processing                   1      1
Paint                                2                    1
Wigs                                                      3      1
Printing                             2      1             1
Wire & Nails                                3
Soap & Detergents                    2                    1
Auto Service                         1      1
Auto Assembly & Parts                i
Auto Parts                                                1
Pens, Lighters, Watches                           1       2
Apparel                                                   2
Scooters, Carts                      1
Refractories, Ceramics       1       1
Perfumes                     1       1            1
Cement                       1                    1
Glass                        1              1             1
Resins, Adhesives, Ink                      3
Small Tools                         1
Shoes                                       2             1
Lanterns                                                  2      1
Bicycles & Parts                            2



ANNEX 3 - 2
Hong
Industry Type:             USA   Europe  Japan S'pore  Kong  Malay   Australia  Other
Tires                       1
Sewing Machines             1
Asbestos                                                                  1
Gases                                                                     1
Phonograph Records                                       1
Coating & Plating                           1
Wire & Cable                       1
Plastics                                          1
Paper
Zippers                   -        -                             _       -
33     49      48    15      37      12       12       11
Source: Indonesian Foreign Investment Board;
Arthur D. Little, Inc.
Industrial Projects Department
July 27, 1973



INDONESIA
JAKARTA  INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
(PULO GADUNG)
\ STArIO                                                                  PRELIMINARY  DEVELOPMENT  PLAN   APRIL  1972
mAt  NTRAINC           t v       | C 
INITIAL CONTRACT PHASE - INTERIM D.K I.
OPERATIONS )972-JUNE, 1972
(  }  I }      ti rjr   URE] INDSTRY  \      JOINT VENTURE CONTRACT PHASE-JULY, 1973-1978
LAND BANK RESERVE
BOUNDARY OF INITIAL CONTRACT AND
TO    JAX,,A                                                                                              JOINT    VENTURE   CONTRACT   PHASE   AREAS
*tes t sO                           ot+ jl t    ; 2 -                     EXISTING ROADS         +       FUTURE RAILWAYS
v "I.                                               _                                                       +  -   _  _  __  f  U'URE ROADS -  POWER LINES
6                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FUTURE ROADS     RIVERS
RAILWAYS
SOURCE: FEASIBILITY STUDY JAKARTA INDUSTRIAL ESTATE AT
PULO GADLNG, PREPARED BY WORKING GROUP, JAKARTA
INDLUSTRIAL ESTATE, GOVERNMENT OF THE CAPITAL CITY
JAKARTA (DCII, WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CORPORATION.
APRIL 1972.
UMATRA     ,J~AY'A 5EA
KARTA
Th, ~~~~~~~~~~~~)AVA                             ~0
.......... ~ ~      ~        "-..
pI ~~~~~~~~~fX~,INVIAVN
*tiX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                      100              L)     _E  
tp  o 0                      ._                                           METERS                .A






ANNEX 5
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF THE PULO GADUNGC INDUSTRIAJ. ESTATE
NOTES ON ESTATE INFRASTRUCTURE
Land Fill, Grading and Surface Drainage
Most of the estate is former rice paddy 1and and, although the
water table is lower today than in the past, it is still necessary to raise
the surface to assure a level that will permit drainage and not be under
water during parts of the year.   The development work to date has con-
firmed feasibility study estimates that the average fill required is one-
half cubic meter per square meter of surface, raising the level by 50 cms.
Costs range between Rs. 600 and 800/square meter (Rs. 1,200 to 1,600 per
cubic meter of fill, graded and compacted), depending on the density of
the fill aggregate.   For estate conditions, the lower figure corresponding
to "average" fill density, is suitable. Net leasable land of 337.5 hectares
will require an investment of US $2.5 million in fill, grading and compacting.
The surface drainage system (Fig. 16, feasibility study) has been
planned to take advantage of the natural flow of run-off water to the north.
Investment in drainage ditches within the estate plus improvements and re-
alignment of peripheral creeks is estimated at US $200,000 including special
dikes for flood control purposes.   Open areas have been sized and located
not only for aesthetic purposes but to provide suitable "holding" areas
so that extraordinary peak run-off loads will not swamp the system.
Roads
Two standards of road construction were planned by the feasibility
study team -- main and secondary:
Hain Roads: Right-of-way 30 meters wide; 4 lanes of
traffic on two 8 meter roads divided by a central median
strip; separate lanes are provided for "?betchaks"
(3 wheelers) and bicycles with sidewalks along the outer
edge for pedestrian traffic.
Secondary doads:  Right-of-way, 15 meters wide; It lanes
of traffic on one strip 12 meters wide; sidewalks on both
sides.
The detailed layout and construction specifications for both road standards
are contained in technical annexes to the feasibility study and the cost
was estimated at US $2.07 million.
One of the issues raised during the appraisal was the
high standards and, therefore, cost of the road design.   An 8 meter wide
strip for two lanes of traffic is 1 to 2 meters wider than generally specified



AH.NN  5-2
and separate betchak-cum-bicycle lanes are an innovation for Jakarta.
The justification for the wider roads offered by Westinghouse/DKI is the
need to accommodate large trucks and truck-trailers, which, it is antici-
pated, will be a large portion of total traffic.   As for the separate
betchak/bicycle lanes, the familiar traffic problems of oriental cities
where cars, trucks, betchaks, bicycles and pushcarts mingle indiscriminately
would appear to be sufficient justification for the planned design which
separates motorized and non-motorized vehicles.   The material specifica-
tions -- sand base, broken stone, gravel topped by a 5 cm hot asphalt mix
surface -- do not appear excessive.
As a general approach, it seems clear that the design philosophy
guiding Westinghouse and DKI tends toward very high quality standards. The
project sponsors are convinced that this first estate should be a model pro-
ject and comparable with the best in other countries, e.g. Jurong Estate in
Singapore. Public officials have also expressed their desire to see a
general upgrading of construction standards in Indonesia. However, as a
reasonable compromise, right of way widths have been reduced to 26 m. and
14 m. for the main and secondary roads respectively; main roads will be 7 mi.
wide (one way traffic) and secondary roads 8 m. wide (2-way traffic).
'Water
rhe agency responsible for public water service in Jakarta is
the DKI diater Supply Company (PAM) l/ which operates a central water justifi-
cation plant and distribution system serving parts of the city.   The
water system has not reached the Pulo Gadung area as yet.  PFA  is currently
expanding its water treatment capacity by 2,000 liters per second and has
earmarked a minimum of 100 liters per second for the estate.   To provide
this flow, a 500 mm diameter pipeline to Pulo Gadung along Djalan Pemuda
will be completed in 1973.   Until that time, interim requirements will
be met by a deep well completed early in 1973, capable of supplying 15
to 20 liters per second.
Estimated water demand, based on the expected types of industrial
activity and levels of employment, is shown below:
Estimated Water Demand, 1972-1978
(Million liters/day)
1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977t  1978   Total
Annual Increment    o.0    1.6    2.2    2.5    2.2    0.9   0.2
Cumulative Demand   0.4    2.0    4.2    6.7    8.9    9.o   10.0    10.0
Assuming that the deep well continues to yield the expected flow of at
least 15 liters per second or 1.3 million liters per 24 hours, estimated
demand can be met until about mid-1973.   Assuming further that the pipe
line supplying 100 liters per second or 8.6 million liters per 24 hours is
in operation by late 1973, there should be no water supplying problem until
after 1978.
1/ Perusahwan Air Viinum.



ANI'TEX 5-3
PAM's long-range plan foresees a new water purification plant
of 4,000 liters per second capacity on the Sunter River near Pulo Gadung.
Construction is planned to start in mid-1974.  When completed and connected
to the existing system, the flow of water in the Djalan Pemuda pipeline
will be reversed and the estate will draw water from the new facility.
The planned allocation to the estate will be 1,000 liters per second or
86 million liters per 24 hours and should be adequate for decades to come.
The preliminary plan (Fig.17 of feasibility study) includes a
reservoir holding 20,000 cubic meters (20 million liters) providing a
reserve for peak demand loads exceeding the maximum flow obtainable
through the pipeline.   An elevated tank of 7,000 cubic meter capacity
will assure pressure and flow to all points of the estate.   Total cost
of the system is estimated at:
US $ Thousands
Main line reservoir from
property line                          110.0
Storage Reservoir                         40.0
Pump Station                              25.0
iqain to Water tower                      75.o
Water Tower                              120.0
Distribution Piping                      720.0
Total           1,090.0
Installation of the water piping system is currently underway
and indications are that real costs are running safely below estimates.
Power
The utility easement along the eastern boundary of the estate
has a transmission line operating at 70 kv and is part of the Jakarta
power distribution loop system. The primary sources of poT-er are the
l25 Mw Jatiluhar hydroelectric project located 70 miles from Jakarta
and the 125 Mi thermal power station at Tanjung Priok (the port area).
Future plans for new power generation capacity include a 200 I4w
installation in West Java by 1977. An IDA credit of US$ 6 million for this
project was approved in May 1973. It is likely, however, that in the mid
1970's, Jakarta will experience a shortage of power until the 200 11w project
is completed and in service.
power requirements for the project are expected to grow approxi-
mately as shown in the following table:
Estimated Power Demand, 1972-1976
(Mw)
1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   19Th   Total
Annual Increment       5     25     30     35      40     30     15
Cumulative Demand     5      30     60     95    135    165   1i0        180



ANNEX 5-4
Some firms with special or critical requirements may be expected to install
their own power generation units, in whole or in part, so that the total
demand may peak at a lower level than projected.   Negotiations with PLN
in early 1972 led to the following schedule:
Installation                      In Service
(Est. Date)
(1)  8 Mw substation at southern
end of estate                          September 1972
(2)  30 Mw substation at north-east
corner of estate                       February 1973
(3)  Expansion of north-east sub-
station in increments of 30 Mw up
to total capacity of 120 Mw
phased to demand growth                   1974-1978
PLI has assured the project sponsors that the estate is of the
highest priority and no effort will be spared in providing power capacity
in step with growth of demand.   Nevertheless, some slippages can be
expected - in fact, have already occurred in the & and 30 Mw installations -
and the Association concluded that the 25 Mw power generating plant discussed
in para. 4.03 and 4.01 would be needed to supplement power supply to the
estate.
Sewage
One of the planning objectives of the project has been to
establish a new standard of liquid waste treatment which might serve as a
model for further general upgrading of waste disposal systems in Indonesia.
Two alternative systems were explored by an Australian affiliate of
W¢rstinghouse specialized in sanitary engineering:
(a)   Oxidation Ponds - estimated cost, US $0.5 million on
approximately 70 hectares.
(bD   Biofilters -  estimated cost, US $2.24 million on 1.5
hectares.
in both cases, the treatment plant was assumed to be receiving normal
wastes after pre-treatment at the point of origin by specific plants to
renmove or neutralize aggressive wastes such as acids, dyes, oils, etc.
Although the capital investment is much higher for Alternative (b), and
the process more complex and costly to maintain, the value of 68.5 hectares
released for industrial use makes this alternative more attractive finan-
cially and economically.   Installation of sewer piping will add US $403,000
to the treating plant cost of US $2.24 million for a total of US $2.643
million.



ANNEX 5-5
Fire Protection
The fire hydrant system will consist of approximately 7,500
meters of 8" diameter ring mains, 7,500 meters of 6" diameter sub-mains and
the necessary booster pumps and controls to assure appropriate pressures
and flow rates on demand. Estimated cost of the system installed will be
US $405,000.  At some future date, consideration will be given to the pur-
chase of a fire fighting truck but in the initial operational period, the
estate will rely on the local government and its municipal off-site fire
stations.
Telephone Service
The National Telecommunications Department (PERUMITEL) presently
operates four telephone offices in the Djakarta area with a total of 33,000
numbers or connections available for use. Demand far outstrips the. ability
of the department to respond. A new office in the Tebet area is under con-
struction and expected to be completed by early 1973. This facility will
permit the allocation of about 500 connections to the Pulo Gadung area, of
which 100 are expected to be available to the estate. The long range out-
look, however, is not encouraging and it has been decided to finance as part
of the project a 500-line telephone exchange located on the estate and tied
to the public network which would be owvned and maintained by PERUMTEL. The
estimated cost of US$800,000 will be recovered by the estate from connection
fees and service charges under terms of a contract to be negotiated with
?ERUWTEL.
Industrial Projects Department
July 27, 1973






INDONESIA
APPRASAL  OF TIXE PULO QDO INDUSTRIIAL ESTATE
ORGANIZATION CHART
Share  Holders
Board of
Supervisors
Gov. Technical Team           - -                          President                     - |- - - - - - - - - - - -    Foreign
Public Relations       7                  Geea                                                 3                      Person'nel      ll 
Legal            8 1                GnrlGeneral
| Legal         H              . ~~~~Affairs                         Administration                        Logistics        12|
Manpower             9                                                                                     i1
.  .                                                                               | ~~~~~~~~~~~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~Secretariat  
Land Acquisition   10
Foreign          Panning & Development                   Advigores & Marketing                   5         Foreign                                    6    iac
[Advisorw-                                                       Sae      akl:n                      Advisor       |     Financee6
14 _.s one    I                                                  SalesrI
|Planning 1]  fDevelopmentl [|Operations 16|          e Crv°ices    7    Promoe io      l          getina fig                 r-Utn
Permits  Small- Scale In-        Investmrent
m        I dllestry DevelDlet  | orimatJ Ion>
Key -  Board of Directors  1, 4, 5, 6.
Kanagers 'Departmcnts)  2, 3.
Directors (Divisions) 4, 5, 6
Heads (Sections) 7 through 21.
Industrial Projects Department
JLly 27, 197?3






ANNEX 7
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF PULO GADUNG INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
CAPITAL COST ESTIMATE
Rp. million               US$ million
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total
Land Acquisition
Vacant Land                        1,287     -       1,287      3.1       -       3.1
Free Standing Villages               872     -         872      2.1       -       2.1
Perimeter Villages                 1,037     -       1,037      25        -       2.5
Total Land Acquisition        3,196     -       3,196      7.7       -       7.7
Land Development (Direct Coat)
Fill, Grading and Surface
Drainage                         1,369      156    1,525      3.3      0.4      3.7
Roads                                580      160      740      1.4     0.4       1.8
Water                                166      471      637      0.4      1.1      1.5
Fire Protectiom                       42      166      208      0.1     0.4       o.5
Sewage (including treating plant)   373       672    1,045      0.9     1.6       2.5
Street Lighting and Traffic Lights     0      125      125        0     0.3       0.3
Telephone Exchange                    83      235      318      0.2      o.6      o.8
Total Land Development
(Direct)                    2,613    1,985    4,598      6.3     4.8     11.1
Land Development (Indireet Cost)-/    706       290      996      1.7      0.7      2. 4
Buildings
Management Complex                   159       53      212      0.4      0.1      0.5
Standard Buildings                   348      195      543      0.8     0.5       1.3
Total On-Site Buildings         507      248      755      1.2     o.6       1.8
Housing                                159       53      212      0.4     0.1       o.5
Miscellaneous Assets
Site Equipment                      -          31       31       -      0.1      0.1
Pre-Incorporation Cost               142       70      112      0.1    0.2        0.3
Total Miscellaneous Assets       42      101      143      0.1     0.2      0.3
Consulting and Engineering             207      332      539      0.5     0.8       1.3
Sub-Total                     7,430    3,009   10,439     17.9     7.3      25.2
Contingencies (5%)                     372      150      522      0.9     0.4       1.3
Price Escalation (10% p.a.)          1.697      831    2.528      4.1     1.9       6.o
Total Fixed Assets            9,499    3,990   13,489     22.9     9.6      32.5
Net Working Capital                  6,225     -       6,225     15.0       -      15.0
Total Including Working
CapitAl                    15,724    3.990   19,714     37.9     9.6     47.5
1/ Contractor Costs:  Preliminaries, administrative overhead and taxes.
Industrial Projects Department
July 27, 1973



INDONLSIA
APPRAISAL OF THE PULO GADUNG INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
LAND) AG UII N AND DISPOSITION SCHBfDULE,
(Hectares)
1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   TOTAL
(Actual)
LAND ACQUISITION
Vacant Land                               87.0   97.0   70.9      -      -       -      -      -      - 2549
Free Standing Villages                    13.0   57.5   51.1      -      -       -      -      -      -   121.6
Perimeter Villages                          -       -      -    3) 9   lo. o                                45.9
Total Land Acquisition              100.0  155.5  122.0   35.9   10.0      -       -      -      -   422.4
LAND DISPOSITICN-
Land Sold Against Cash                      -     4.Q   I.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    3.0    3.0   34.0
Land Sold on Terms:
-  For medium and large firms             25.0   23.0   30.0   35.0   35.0   35.0   35.0   16.0    2.0  236.0
-  For small firms                          -     3.0    4.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0o   4.o    3.0  34.0
Total Land Sold                      25.0   30.0  38.0   45.0   45.0   45.0   45.0   23.0    8.0  304.0
Land Leased                                 -     2.0    4.0    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    3.5    2.5   30.0
Land Used for Standard Buildings                  0.5    o.    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5        -      3.5
Total Land Leased                      -     2.5    4.5    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    4.0    2.5   33.5
Total Land Disposition               25.0   32.5  42.5  50.0   50.0   50.0   50.0   27.0  10.5  337.5
=~~~~~~~a =
Industrial Projects Department
Jul,y 27, 1973



.DTDONIESIA
A  TS) Y T   _Q  TT7 T' IT7C aJNC rTT"TTAJ, ESTATE
COST OF LAND SOLD
(US$ '000)
1972      1973      197I     1975      1976     1977      1978      1979     1980
(Actual)
Land Acauisition Expenditures
Cost of Land per Hectare
-  Vacant land                  10.1       12.2    1i.6
- Free stand villages           11.1      16.8      20.1       -        -
-  Perimeter villages            -          -        -        52.1     62.5
Cost of Land Acquisition
-  Vacant land                 878.7    1183.4   1035.2        -         -
-  Free standing villages      144.3      966.0   1027.1       -        -
-  Perimeter villages            -          -        -      1870.4    625.0
Total Cost of Land Acquisition 1023.0    21h9.4   2062.3   1870.4    625.0
Cumulative Cost of Land
Acquisition                   1023.0    3172.4   5234.7   7105.1   7730.1
Land Development Expenditures
Cost of land development       701.0    4952.0   5812.0   3507.0   1511.0    480.0-
Cumulative cost of land
development                  701.0    5653.0  11465.0  14972.0  16483.0  16963.0
Cumulative land acquisi-
tion and development
cost                        1724.0    8825.4  16699.7  22077.1  24213.1  24693.1
Cost of Land SoldZ/             1829.1    2194.9   2780.2   3292.14  3292.4   3292.h   3292.4   1682.8    585.3
1/  Construction, as showm, is completed in 1977
z/  Calculated for each year by mlb,ip1lyvng total cuiu1Jive land acnuisition a-ndl development costs per hectare
of leasable land by number of hectares sold.
Industrial Projects Department
July 27, 1973






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TEE PULO (ADUNrO ThDTJT,IIAL ESTAT1.
UNIT PRICES AND ANNUAL RENT FOR LAND AND BUILDINGS
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
Land Sold Against Cash                     _     91.6   105.3    121.1  139.3   160.2   184.2   211.8   243.6
Land Sold on Term:
- 3-year terms for medium and
large-scale firms                    96.4   115.7   133.0   153.0   175.9   202.3   232.6   267.5   307.6
- 10-year terms for small-scale firms    -    146.6   168.5   193.6   222.9   256.3   294.7   338.9   389.8
Land Leased
- in 1973                                  -     11.9    11.9    11.9    11.9    11.9    17.9    17.9    17.9
-  in 1974                                 -       -     13.7    13.7    13.7    13.7    13.7    20.6    20.6
-  in 1975                                 -       -        _     15.7    15.7    15.7    15.7    15.7    23.6
-  in 1976                                 -       -        -       -     18.1    18.1    18.1    18.1    18.1
- in 1977                                  -       -        -       -        -     20.8    20.8    20.8    20.8
-  in 1978                                 -       -        -       -        -       -      23.9    23.9    23.9
- in 1979                                      -        -       -       -        -            -     27.5    27.5
- in 1980                                  -       -        -            -       -        -            -     31.7
Buildings Rented
- in 1973                                  -      6.8      6.8     6.8      6.8     6.8    10.2    10.2    10.2
-  in 1974                                 -       -       7.6     7.6      7.6     7.6      7.6    11.4    11.4
-  in 1975                                 _ -              -      8.4      8.4     8.4      8.4     8.4    12.6        i
-  in 1976                                 _       _        _       _       9.3     9.3      9.3     9.3      9.3     A
-  in 1977                                 _       _        _       _        -     10.3    10.3    10.3    10.3       H
- in 1978                                  -       -        -       -        -       -      11.5    11.5    11.5
-  in 1979                                 _       _        _       _        -       _- _           12.7    12.7
_B,a  s .
Land unit = 1 hectare.
Building unit = 450 sq. m. (4,860 sq. ft.).  This is a basic factory urnit for small scale industry and firms
will rent one or more units, although very small shops will be accomiodated, if necessary, by subdividing the
factory unit into smaller areas. Annual rental = ICb;A of cost of building plus occupied land or 0.10 x (125 + 2$)
or $;15.00 w,rhere 2125 is cost of building per sq. m. and 425 is value of developed land (2.5 sq. m. occupied
by 1 sq. rn. of buildlrng).



ANNEX 10-2
ADDE`IDUMI
Note on Land Rights
The basic Agrarian Law of 1960 established the principle that all
land in Indonesia is State-controlled but not State-owned. In densely popu-
lated areas, most landholdings are private. Land outside this category is
directly controlled by the State and conmonly called "State lands". m he
Basic Agrarian Law recognizes several types of rights to land, four of which
are significant to the foreign investor: (1) the right of ownership ("hak
milik"); (2) the right of exploitation ("hak guna-usaha"); (3) the right
of building ("hak guna bangunan"l); and (4) the right of use ("hak pakai").
These rights authorize the use of land in different ways.
Before the Foreign Investment Law was introduced in 1967, foreign
companies were not entitled to obtain the right of building (for industries)
or the right of exploitation which they may now acquire. Foreign investors
are also eligible for the "right of use". For example, foreign investors
who have obtained mining rights from the Minister of Mining or forestry
exploitation rights from the Minister of Agriculture automatically obtain
use-rights for lands within the boundaries of their concessions and for
purposes directly connected with the operations of the enterprise. The
duration of these three rights in land are limited: (i) the right of ex-
ploitation is valid for 25 to 35 years, depending on the type of enterprise,
and at the Government's discretion another 25-year extension may be granted;
(ii) the right of building is valid for 30 years, extendable by another 20
years at Government discretion; and (iii) the right of use may be for eithler
a fixed period or for as long as the land is used for a particular purpose.
Purchase of land on the estate is equivalent, in effect, to the
purchase of a 30-year lease, extendable by 20 years, enabling the buyer to
build a factory and use the land and building for its industrial purposes.
An occupant may wish to dispose of his land and buildings - an event that
could occur, for example if the firm is forced into bankruptcy or sells out
to another owner - and siould, of course, be permitted to get as good a price
as possible consistent with Government policy aimed at constraining undue
speculative increases in land values. One possible formula - already in use
in other real estate development projects in Jakarta - is based on an obliga-
tion by the seller to pay to the Government corporation administering the
development 10% of the fair market value of land and buildings regardless of
the price he is able to negotiate with the buyer (which, in any event, would
be difficult to ascertain). This obligation appears to represent a suffi-
cient reduction in profit to the seller to act as a deterrent to resale con-
ceived solely for the purpose of realizing speculative profits. At the same
time, a legitimate resale can still be effected if the parties to the trarns-
action accept the obligation and are able to pay the 10% "share" accruing to
-the government.
Estate management will continue to study this problem and by December
31, 1973 will submit (as part of the general package of rules and regulations
governing estate operations) proposed terms and conditions for occupants wishirng
to sell land and buildings.
Industrial Projects Department
July 27, 1973



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL. F THE PULO G10I INDUSIRIAL ESTATE
REVyNS BUILDWP 1972-1983
(U9$'000)
---------------OONSTRUCTION---------------
1972    1973    1974   1975    1976   1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    983
*Lan no2A A,ninnt  aah           -   366.4  421.2  505.5  696.5  801.0   921.0   635.4   730.8             -       -       -
Land Sold on Tems 
- 3-year terms for medium
and large-scale firms     2410.0  2661.1  3990.0 5355.0  6156.5  7080.5  8141.0  4280.0  615.2         -        -
- 10-year term for Small-
Scale firm                    -   439.8  674.0  J68.0   1 11.5 1281.5  1473.5  1355.6  -1-9-
TOTAL              2410.0  3100.9  4664.o  6323.0  7271.0  8362.0  96i4.5  5635.6  1784.6       -        -       -
Land Leased to       -Scale
Frms:
- in 1973                        -     23.8   23.8    23.8    23.8    23.8    35.8    35.8    35.8    35.8    35.8    53.7
- in 1974                        -       -    54.8    54.8    54.8    54.8    54.8    82.4    82.4    82.4   '82.4    82.4
- in 1975                        -       -       -    70.6    70.6    70.6    70.6    70.6   106.2   106.2   106.2   106.2
- in 1976                        -       -       -       -    81.5    81.5    81.5    81.5    81.5   122.2   122.2   122.2
- in 1977                        -       -       -       -       -    93.6    93.6    93.6    93.6    93.6   140.4   140.4
- in 1978                        -       -       -       -       -       -    107.6   107.6   107.6   107.6   107.6   161.4
- in 1979                        -       -       -       -       -       -        -     96.3    96.3*   96.3    96.3    96.3
- in 1980                     ,-                __                                              79-3    79-3    79-3    79 3
TOTAL                  -    23.8    78.6  149.2  230.7   324.3   443.9  567.8   682.7   723.4   770.2   841.9
Buildings Leased to 8nall-
noae rims;
- in 1973                        -     34.0    34.0   34.0    34-.0   34.0    51.0    51.0    51.0    51.0    51.0    76.5
- in 1974                        _       -    38.0   38.0    38.0    38.0    38.0    57.0    57.0    57.0    57.0    57.0
- in 1975                        -               -    42.0    42.0   42.0    42.0    42.0   63.0    63.0    63.0    63.0
- in 1976                        -       -       -             4 46.5    46.5    46.5    46.5   46.5   69.8    69.8    69.8
- in 1977                        _       _                       -    51.5    51.5    51.5    51.5    51.5    77.3    77.3
- in 1978                        -       -       -       -        -       -     57.5    57.5    57.5    57.5    57.5    86.3
- in 1979                                -       -       -        -       -             63.5             63.5    63.5    63.5
TOTAL                  -     34.0   72.0  114.0  160.5   212.0   286.5   369.0   390.0   413.3   439.1  493-4
TOTAL. REVI2IUES FRO)
LAND AND BUILDINGS           2410.0  3        ja235.8  7091.7  8358-7  9699-3 11265.9 72o2    358      1136.7  1209.3
Miscellaneous ServiceCharges            9...o  9  39.1    47.1  266.7  274.7  281.7  261.6  262.6    0.0    50.0    50.0
GRAND TOTAL        2I.O  34.1l   24 .9  7138.8  8625.4  9974.o 11547.6  7464.4   ^           1186.7  U=    1 =
1/ Tenant service charges, rental of project office building, and telephone exchange cost recovery.
Industrial Projects Department
July 27, 1973



APPRAISAL ?F THE; PUL) GADMIM3 DlDUSTIUiU nSTATE
1yd of
197c       1973       1974      1975       1976       1977      197b       1979      l          1ti9   t 1982        1983    15    8      lF85       1986      1987       1968
I&nd Sold on Terms t
3-year Termst
- 1972                    1,807.5   1,205.0       -                -          -         _     _         _          _
- 1973                       -       1,995.8   1,330.2                   -         -          _         _          _          _
- 1974                                   -     2,992.5   1,995.0        -          -          -         -          -         -          -
- 1975                                             -     4,001.3   2,667.5         -          -         -          -          -         -
- 1976                                  -                     -     4,617.4   3,078.3         -         -          -          -         -                    _
-  1977                      -           _         _          _          -     5,310.4   3,540.3        -          -         _         _          _          _          _         _
-1978                        -           -         -          -         -          -     6,105.8   4,070.5         -
- 1979                       -           -         _          _         _          _          -     3,210.0   2,140.0        _                                          _         _          _          _
-1980                       -                                                                                   L  L~ 61.3  307.6 _     
TOTAL      1,807.5    3,200.8   4,322.7   5,996.3   7,284.9   B,388.7   9,646.1   7,280.5   2,601.3           307.6       -          _         _          _          _          _         _
- 1973                       -        417.8      395.8      351.8     307.9      263.9     219.9      175.9      131.9      88.0        -
-1974                        -           -       640.3      606.6     539.2      471.8     404.4      337.0      269.6     202.2    134.b         -          -
-1975                        -           -         -        919.6     871.2      774.4     677.6      580.6      474.0     387.2    290.4       193.6        -
- 1976                             -          -               -     1,058.6   1,003.1      891.6      780.2      668.7     557.3    445.8       334.4      c22.9        -
- 1977                                   -         _          _         _      1,217.4   1,153.4   1,025.2       897.1     768.9    640.b       512.6      384.5     256.4        -          _          _
- 1976                       -           -         -          -          -         _     1,399.6   1,326.k   1,178.8   1,031.5    884.1         736.6      589.4      442.1     294.7        -          -
- 1979                       -           -         _          _         _          _          -     1,267.8   1,220.0   1,064.5    948.9        813.4      677.b      542.c     406.7      271.1        -
- 1960                                   1--                -        ---l10.,9  1,052.5   _Y3s.5   b16.6                                                   701.6     584.7      467.8          8       2.
10TAL         _          417.8   1.036.1   1,878.0   2.777.1   3,730.6   4,746,/  5,504.1  5.S61.   5,17.1' 4,2bO.3   3,409.4   2,76.2   1. 3    1,169.2                    621.Y      c33-Y
ORAND TOTAL       1,807.5    3,618.6   5,358.8   7,874.3  10,062.0  1c,11Y.O  14,392.b  12,784.6   8,562.3   5,479.7  4,c80.3   3,40y.4   2,576.2   1,b27.3   1,169.k               621.9     233.9
Incrersase(Dsor.ase)     1      ,7.  1,811.1   1,40.2       515.    2,187.7   2,057.0   c-73-8           I.2) (&223)   - 082.6)(1L19Y-4)   (86..1)    -             r           (66.)    5           (388.0)
Inditstdiij ?r-';ecta s,axtme:,



APPRAISAL OF THE YULO GADUG INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
(US$'O00)~
1972       1973        1974        1975        1976        1977        1978        1979         1980        1981        1982        1983
(Actual)
Revenues
- Land and Buildings                             2,410.0    3,525.1    5,235.8    7,091.7    8,358.7    9,699.3   11,265.9    7,202.8    3,588.1    1,136.7    1,209.3    1,335.3
- Service Cargos                                      4.0        9.0        39.1        47.1       266.7       274.7       281.7       261.6        262.6        50.0        50.0        50.0
Total                            2,414.0    3,534.1    5,274.9    7,138.8    8,625.4    9,974.0   11,547.6    7,464.4    3,850.7    1,186.7    1,259.3    1,385.3
Costs
- Cost of Land Sold                              1,829.1    2,194.9    2,780.2    3,292.4    3,292.4    3,292.4    3,292.4    1,682.8               585.3        -           -            -
- Operating Costs
- Salaries and Wages                           10.7       108.5       167.9       186.5       205.0       225.7       191.8       184.2       163.9        180.3       198.3       218.2
- Others                                       14.9       219.4       254.8       247.8       274.8       306.0       300.9       286.4       278.1        275.8       280.3       290.6
Total Operating Costs                25.6      327.0       422.7       434.3       479.8       531.7       492.7       470.6       442.0        456.1       478.6       508.8
r Depreciation                                       33.4       156.5      343.5        548.9      653.2       734.6        720.6       579.1       439.1       439.1       439.1       439.1
.- Interest
- IDA                                          _           54.0       564.0    1,128.0    1,452.0    1,620.0    1,680.0    1,473.0    1,241.0              981.0       691.0       364.0
- Other                                        -          270.0       540.0       585.0       414.0        99.0        -           -            -           -           -           -
Total Costs                      1,888.1    3,003.3    4,650.4    5,988.6    6,291.4    6,277.7    6,185.7    4,205.5    2,707.4    1,876.2    1,608.7    1,311.9
Income Before Tax                                        525.9.      530.8       624.5    1,150.2    2,334.0    3,696.3    5,361.9    3,258.9    1,143.3             (689.5)    (349.4)         73.4
Corporate Tax                                            236.7       119.4        -           -           -          831.7    2,412.9    1,466.5         514.5         -           -            33.0
Income After Tax                                         289.2       411.4       624.5    1,150.2    2,334.0    2,864,6    2,949.0    1,792.4             628.8      (689.5)     (349.4)        40.4
Cumulative Surplus                                       289.2       700.6    1,325.1    2,475.3    4,809.3    7,673.9   10,622.9   12,415.3   13,044.1   12,354.6   12,005.2   12,045,6
Industrial Projects Deparment
July 27, 1973



IIDONESIA
APPEAISAL OP THE PULO GAD1UNG INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
CASH FLOW STATtNT
(U)5* 000)
1972        1973        1974        1975        1976        1977        1978        1979        1980        1981         1982        1983
(Actual)
----------------- Construction Period ---------------------
Source of Funds
Income after tax                                    289.2       411.4       624.5    1,150.2    2,334.0    2,864.6    2,949.0    1,792.4             628.8      (689.5)    (3/9.4)        40.4
Depreciation                                         33.4       156.5       343.5        548.9       653.2       734.6       720.6       579.1       439.1       439.1       439.1       439.1
Cost of  Land Sold                                1,829.1    2,194.9    2,780.2    3,292.4    3,292.4    3,292.4    3,292.4    1,682.8               585.3        -
Paid in Equity                                    2,800.0    1,600.0    1,800.0          800.0        -           -           -           -           -           -           -            -
Increase in Debt - IDA                               -        1,800.0    5,800.0    3,600.0    1,800.0    1,000.0
- Other                            -        3,000.0                   500.0                    -
Decrease in Mortgage Receivables                                                          -                 -                          1.608.2    4,222.3  3.0M2.6    1.199.4            870.9
Total Sources                     4,951.7    9,162.8   11,348.2    9,891.5    8,079.6    7,891.6    6,962.0    5,662.5    5,875.5    2,832.2    1,289.1    1,350.4
Application of Funds
Repayment of Loan - IDA                              -           -           -            -           -           -       1,725.0    1,932.0    2,164.0    2,424.0    2,714.0    3,041.0
- Other                           -           -           -           -        2,400.0    1,100.0         -           -           -           -            -           -
Land Acquisition                                  1,023.0    2,149.4    2,062.3    1,870.4           625.0        -           -
Land Development                                    739.0    4,714.0       6,359.0    3,894.0    1,830.0         889.0        -
Site Equipment                                       -           75.0         -                       -           -           -           -           -           -            -           -
Buildings                                            10.0       379.1       469.5        484.0       360.6       318.6       350.7       385.9        -           -
Housing                                              -          500.0         -           -   1/            -                 -           -           -                  -                 -
Pre-Incorporation Cost                              132.0        -           -           168.0-       -           -           -           -           -           -           -            -
Consultirng and Engineering Service                  -          302.0       363.0        363.0       181.0        91.0        -
Increase in Mortage Receivables                   1,807.5    1.811.1    1740.2    2,515.5    2.187.7    2.057.0    2.273.8                -
Total Application                 3,711.5    9,930.6   10,994.0    9,294.9    7,584.3    4,455.6    4,349.5    2,317.9    2,164.0    2,424.0    2,714.0    3,041.O
Cash Surplus (Deficit)                                  1,240.2      (767.8)      354.2       596.6       495.3    3,436.0    2,612.5    3,344.6    3,711.5            408.2   (1,424.9)  (1,690.6)
Cumulative                                              1,240.2       472.4       826.6    1,423.2    1,918.5    5,354.5    7,967.0   11,311.6   15,023.1   15,431.3   14,006.4   12,315.8
Debt Service                                                                                                                    3,405.0    3,405.0    3,405.0    3,405.0    3,405.0    3,405.0
Debt Service Coverage                                                                                                               1.9          2.1         2.1         1.1         0.6         0.5
1/ Payment to Westinghouse of Feasibility Study Cost.
Note:  The cost of land sold is shown as a "source of funds."  This is an accounting device used in land development bookeeping practices as followed by the feasibility study.  In
the income statement it is the practice to book land sale revenue in the year the sale is effected even when payments are made over tine and charge against income the cost of
actual hectares sold rather than the real expenditures in that year related to land acquisition and  development.  (The two costs are different - in 1972 actual land acquisi-.X
tion plus development expenditures were lower than the calculated cost of land sold, in 1973 to 1975 are higher and in 1976 8ud 1977 again arc lower.) In the cash flow
statement, actual expenditures for land acquisition and development  are listed under "application of funds."  Therefore, the "cost of land sold" must be added back to the
net income in order to avoid double debiting and to obtain the true cash flow.
Industrial Projects Department
July 27, 1973



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF THE PULO GADUNG IUDUSTRIAL ESTATE
OPERATING COST BREARDOWN
(US$ OQOs)
1972      1973       1974       1975      1976       1977       1978       1979       1980      1981       1982       1983
(Actual)
-----------------------Construction---------------------
Salaries and Wages                10.7     108.5      167.9      186.5     205.0      225.7      191.8      184.2      163.9     180.3      198.3      218.2
General and Administra-
tion Expenses                    9.9     162.1      172.3      163.3     181.0      208.2      176.9      150.4      127.8     108.7       92.4       78.5
Promotion Expenses                 5.0      26.0       20.0       22.0       25.0      29.0       24.0       21.0       18.0       15.0       13.0       11.0
Maintenance Expenses
(including sewage treat-
ment plant expenses)              -        31.3      62.5       62.5       68.8      68.8      100.0      115.0      132.3      152.1      174.9      201.1
TOTAL             25.6      327.9     422.7      434.3      479.8     531.7      492.7      470.6      442.0      456.1      478.6      508.8
Staff (numbers)                   30        78         78         78         78        78         66         57         45         45         45         45
Industrial Projects Department
July 27, 1973



INDONESIA
APPBAISAL OF THE PULO GADING INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
BALANCE SHEET
1972       1973       1974      1975       1976       1977        1978       1979       1980       1981       1982       1983
(Actual)
ASSETS
Current Assets
- Cash                                       1,240.2      472.4      826.6    1,423.2   1,918.5   5,354.5    7,967.0   11,311.6  15,027.1  15,431.3  14,006.4   12,315.8
- Mortage Receivables                        1,807.5    3,618.6    5.358.8    7.874.3  10.062.0   12.119.0   14.392.8   12,784.6    8.562.3    5,479,7   4.280.3    3.409.4
Total Curren Assets           3,047.7    4,091.0    6,185.4    9,297.5  11,980.5  17,473.5  22,359.8  14,096.2   23,585.4  20,911.0  18,286.7   15,725.2
Fixed Assets
- Land/                                      1,762.0   8,625.4   17,046.7  22,811.1  2j,266.1  26,155.1  26,155.1   26,155.1   26,155.1  26,155.1   26,155.1  26,155.1
- Buildings                                     10.0      389.1      858.6    1,342.6   1,703.2    2,021.8    2,372.5    2,758.4    2,758.4    2,758.4    2,758.4    2,758.4
- Staff Housing                                 -         500.0      500.0      500.0      500.0      500.0      500.0      500.0      500.0      500.0       500.0      500.0
- Site Equipment                                -          75.0       75.0       75.0       75.0       75.0       75.0       75.0        75.0       75.0       75.0       75.0
- Preincorporation Cost                        132.0      132.0      132.0      300.0      300.0      300.0      300.0      300.0       300.0     300.0       300.0      300.0
- Consultancy and Engineering Services          -         302.0      665.0    1,028.0   1,209.0   1,300.0    1,300.0    1,300.0    1,300.0   1,300.0    1,300.0    1,300.0
- Less: Cumulative Depreciation                 33.4      189.9      533.4    1,082.3   1,735.5   2,470.1    3,190.7    3,769.8    4,208.9   4,648.0    5,087.1    5,526.2
Cost of Land Sold                    1,829.1   4.024.0   6.804.2  10,096.6  13,389.0  16,681,4   19,973.8  21,656.6   22,241.9  22.241.9   22,241.9   22,241.9
Total Net Fixed Assets            41.5   5,809.6   11,939.7   14,877.8  13,928.8  11,200.4    7,538.1    5,662.1    4,637.7   4,198.6    3,759.5    3,320.4
TOTAL ASSETS                   3089.2    9.900.6   18.125.1   24,175.3   25,909.3   28,673.9   29,897.9   29,754.3   28,223.1  23,109.6   22,046.2   19.045.6
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities                             -          -          -       2,400.0   1,100.0    1,725.0    1,932.0   2,164.0    2,424.0    2,714.0    3,041.0          -
Long-Term Debt
- IDA                                      -       1,800.0    7,600.0   11,200.0  13,000.0  12,275.0  10,343.0    8,179.0    5,755.0   3,041.0            -
- Other                                    -       3,000.0    3.000.0    1,100.0                        -          -                -               -
Total Long-Term Debt              -       4,800.0   10,600.0  12,300.0   13,000.0  12,275.0  10,343.0    8,179.0    5,755.0   3,041.0           -
Equity
- Share Capital                         2,800.0   4,400.0    6,200.0    7,000.0   7,000.0    7,000.0    7,000.0    7,000.0   7,000.0    7,000.0    7,000.0    7,000.0
- Retained Earnings                       289.2      700.6    1,325.1    2.475,3   4,809.3    7,673.9  10,622.9   12,415.3  13,044 1   12,354.6  12,005.2  12,045.6
Total Equity                   3,089.2   5,100.6    7,525.1   9,475.3  11,809.3  14,673.9   17,622.9   19,415.3   20,044.1  19,354.6   19,005.2  19,045.6
Total Liabilities and Equity   3,089.2   9.900,6   18.125,1   24.175.3  25.909.3         8.3                                     25_109_ 9_5_ _ _    _ _    _
Current Ratio                                   -          -          -          3.9      10.9        10.1       11.6       11.1        9.7        7.7        6.0         -          >
Debt: Equity Ratio                               -                              56-44      52:48      46:54      37:63      30-70      22:78      14:86       0:100       -
1I  Acquisition cost plus development expenditures.
Industrial Projects Department
July 27, 1973



APPAISa  OF TSE PULO  ADUS IBXDTUIAL IITATX
*IR1UC*U RA&T7 Or RtTt9
uvB 'llon)
1972     1973     1974      1975     1976      1977     1978      1979     1980      1981     1982      1983     1984      1985     1986      1987      1988     1989      1990     1991         19922..
Residual Value
A. Current Value  asis
1.  Investmnt Eaneqditures
- Land Acquisition            1.0      2.1       2.1      1.9       0.6       -         -
- Land Development            0.7      4.7       6.4      3.9       1.8      0.9        -                      -         -        -         -        -              -        -         -             -         -                 -
_ Site Equipment               -       0.1        -        -         -        -         -
- Buildings                   0.1      0.4       0.5      0.5       0.4      0.3      0.4       0.4
- Housing                      -       0.5                                                                 -        -              -        -         -
- Prs-lneorporetLon Cost      0.1       -         -       0.2                 -         -        -         -        -         -                      -         -         -             -         -        -         -            -
- Consulting and Engineer-
ing Service                -       0.3       0.4      0.4       0.2      0.1        -        -             -         -        -        _       _         _        _       _        _         _        _         _
Working Capital             1.8       1.8      1.7      2.5       2.2      2.1       2.3     (L6)    (4.2)    (3.1)                                      (LZ) (0.9)  (0.) (0.8)    (0.7) (202: (0.4)    _   _  _
Total Costs            3.7      9.9      11.0      9.3       5.2      3.4       2.6     (1.2)    (4.2)    (3.1)    (1.2)    (0.9)    (0.8)    (0.8)    (0.7)    (0.5)    (0.4)    (0.2)            -         -            _
2. Proiect Return
- Revenues                    2.4      3.5       5.3      7.1       8.6     10.0      11.5      7.5       3.9      1.2       1.3      1.4       1.5      1.6       1.8       1.9      2.1       2.2      2.4       2.6
Less: Operating Cosat       0,1      0.3       0.4      0.4       0.5      0.5       0.5      0.5       00.5      .5       0.5      0.5       0.5      0.6       0.6       0.7      0.8       0.8      0.9       1.0
Totel 8enafits         2.4      3.2       4.9      6.7       8.1      9.5      11.0      7.0       3.5      0.7       0.8      0.9       1.0      1.0       1.2       1.2      1.3        1.4      1.5      1.6
Financial Return: 20.4% (before tax)
B. Constant Value Basis
1.  Investment Expenditures       3.7       9.9      9.9      7.6       3.8       2.3      1.6        -                      -              -        -         -                            .                  - 
2.  rroject  Rtturn               2.4       3.2      4.4       5.5      5.9       6.3      6.8       4.6      4.0       2.0      1.1       1.0       1.0      1.1      1.0       1.0       1.0      1.1       1.1       1.1         14.8
Financial Return:  13.4% (before tax including residual value in 1972)1'
1/  Residual value in 1992 is original v-lne of developed  land renaiini  in pousesaion of  estote corporation Lnrcne.d by 57. per anumw between 1972 and 1991 plus 50% of original v lue of building.
Induatrial Projects Department
July 27, 1973






IBR\  10204
0 \/   g X   / <        X                      <     v     X     -     4      0       r JI IRF A RPrvT      _           ~~~~~~PROPOSED   L AND   JSE   OF   DJAKARTA   AREA
/~ ~ ~  > 6S /  0         \                                                                                                                                                  )                        TI    115  'l.  1,1 11 \,/v 1 :H   ,  1U1
N'IIAtN    ,,N            .t..    3               r   oer3E                                          )                                                                                         )                         A, lL.011111,1  0001.1
"-+ .4 X SA   tK2g   >'r.                                                A V A           5 F A
/1D01A0 ACCAIO      ----                              LI J                                             I C                                                                N32  Cl  X                                                                 _
siX>                     10~~v-jp'                              '-1
_ _ _ _ _ _ _  _  _  _   _      _  _   _  _  _      _      _   _  _  _      _  _                                   f i      s                                  J           -






IRED-1003 2
L NDONESIA
THAILAND                   SOUTH VIETINAM                                              (7 HtLIPPIN; ;                                    ADMINISTRATION & POPULATION
A              Praviro a ~~~~boudaries
Soulh  China  Se                                                                                            Vr:              .--. 6i 0  :;1ori ! Prp 
SiboIqorruen   jFi7,fiS!b.                                   ;   A     t % ;;   -a>~                     Tar                                                               d     e ...  er q.a .i;...te 
Moredo -~~~~~~~oo- 9
g   =   .   y  q;  . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~KU,?N   E                                                                                                 F ;;C,,7        tO,-49
007                                  ~~~~~~~Tora'.%t     ,Dc C/ic   Oce an
HMAHERA
PROVINCES
,~~~~~~\BANGKA~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~RRbaa
I EAST JAVA                              \\     TTAGA
2 CENTRAL JAVA                   \      \
3 WESTSLJMAVRA          \      7;      ra\gW            ,            :    ;/r ,br v':l,40!i;:ii: ;i.7x5~;,1@tr':: t: =;:\:  'Zf t                            :b/a7 i;:;: .23                    WETIRA
12 SPECiAL TERRITORY ATJEH
16 SOUTH KALMANTAN                                                                                                               Ol                                                                   T iIA
8 RIAU                         h~~~~~~~~~~~~~$A~4~T
17 CENTRAL KALIMANTAN   _  -ft                                   =lopanlo7d  :SUM BA4$   C                                                     U sD& Iex<tineOukole      /25     
19 CENTRAL SULAWRAESI                1/n   dan               O    e  a                                  / .
20 SOUTH-ES SUMAWESA        j0ARTA
23 EALN                                                           JA VAE
24   WEST  NUSA  TENGGARA        o        zoo       oso                         ::;
25 EAST NUSA TENGGARA
26WEST ERIAN                               OiEOEEO                                                                                                                                        20     h    i\2te      tE : ::F; 7 80rF   :  s   s  64X.R£.M/rTh ".r 40 o
I0 ,                                                                                                i ,                          .                                                    s



