I
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 428 IND
Project Agreement
(Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
P. T. JAKARTA INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PULO GADUNG
AND
PEMERINTAH DAERAH KHUSUS IBUKOTA JAKARTA
DATED SEPTEMBER 14, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 428 IND
Project Agreement
(Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
P. T. JAKARTA INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PULO GADUNG
AND
PEMERINTAH DAERAH KHUSUS IBUKOTA JAKARTA
DATED SEPTEMBER 14, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and P. T.
JAKARTA INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PULO GADUNG (hereinafter called JIEP) and
PEMERINTAH DAERAH KHUSUS IBUKOTA JAKARTA (hereinafter called DKI).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Indonesia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen million five hundred thousand
dollars ($16,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that JIEP and DKI agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS JIEP and DKI, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. JIEP shall carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement (except Part C(1.) thereof) with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices.


﻿4
Section 2.02. In order to assist JIEP in the planning and the implementation
of the Project (except Part C(1.) thereof) and in the operation and the management
of the Estate, JIEP shall employ consultants acceptable to the Association upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. In carrying out the Parts of the Project to be carried out by
it, JIEP shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition Linder procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) JIEP undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by JIEP to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, JIEP shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) JIEP shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, copies of the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
work and procurement schedules for the Parts of the Project to be carried out
by it and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) JIEP: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Parts of the Project to be carried out by it (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Parts of
the Project to be carried out by it; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions
of Section 6.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's representatives to
examine the Parts of the Project to be carried out by it, the goods financed out
of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish


﻿5
to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Parts of the Project to be carried out by it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Credit so made available to it and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.07. JIEP shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, JIEP shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. JIEP shall continually reassess and readjust the rate of
construction of the Estate so as to ensure that the completion of industrial plots
and other facilities included in the Estate will proceed in line with the demand
therefor.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of JIEP
Section 3.01. JIEP shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. JIEP shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain its financial
position, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance
with appropriate engineering, administrative and financial practices and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by experienced and
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.03. (a) JIEP shall maintain its existence and right to carry on
operations, and shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
interests in land and other properties and all rights, powers, privileges and franchises
which are necessary or useful in the carrying out of the Parts of the Project to
be carried out by it or in the conduct of its business.
(b)   JIEP   shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, facilities,
equipment and other property, and promptly as required make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, in accordance with appropriate engineering practices.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, JIEP shall not sell,
lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets, which shall
be required for the efficient operation of its business and undertaking.


﻿6
Section 3.04. JIEP shall obtain the Association's approval before (i) phasing
out during the initial two years' period the services to be rendered to JIEP under
the management and technical assistance agreement entered into between JIEP and
Westinghouse on June 15, 1973, and (ii) taking a decision as to the need for
management assistance beyond the initial two years' period.
Section 3.05. No later than December 31, 1973 or such other date as shall
be agreed with the Association, JIEP shall submit to the Association for approval
(i) comprehensive rules and regulations governing the operation of the Estate
including guidelines on industry suitability and factory building design standards
for the Estate, (ii) standard sales and lease contract forms and (iii) a long-range
program of national and international promotion for the industrial plots to be
made available by the Estate.
Section 3.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, JIEP shall sell
or lease the land and lease the standard industrial buildings on the Estate under
the standard sales and lease contracts referred to in Section 3.05 hereinabove and
in accordance with the prices and rents set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
for transactions concluded in 1973, as such prices and rents may be periodically
amended (for transactions concluded in subsequent years) by consultation between
the Association and JIEP based on reviews of such prices and rents to take place -
between such parties at least every twelve months.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. JIEP shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. JIEP shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of JIEP and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿7
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, JIEP shall not
declare any dividend (other than a dividend payable in stock of JIEP) or make
any other distribution with respect to its share capital, unless, after such dividend
has been paid or other distribution has been made, the current assets of JIEP
would exceed three times the current liabilities of JIEP. For the purposes of this
Section:
(a)   "Current assets" includes cash, accounts receivable due within twelve
months, pre-paid expenses, and all other assets which could, in the ordinary course
of business, be converted within twelve months into cash.
(b)   "Current liabilities" includes accounts payable within twelve months,
customer advances, income taxes, dividends, bonuses and all other liabilities
(including long-term debt) which will be due and payable or could be called for
payment, within twelve months.
ARTICLE V
Obligations of DKI
Section 5.01. DKI shall make an equity contribution to JIEP's capital in
the amount of rupiahs 1,500,000,000 (including any such contributions made
before the date of this Agreement).
Section 5.02. DKI shall cause PAM to connect the Estate with PAM's water
supply system so as to be able to deliver to the Estate at least 80 liters per second
of water beginning no later than January 1, 1974, or such other date as shall
have been agreed by the Association.
ARTICLE VI
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 6.01. The Association, JIEP and DKI shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association,
JIEP and DKI shall from time to time, at the request of any party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of JIEP and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 6.02. The Association, JIEP and DKI shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the


﻿I
8
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by any of them
of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower and
JIEP of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 6.03. JIEP shall enable the Association's representatives to examine
all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of JIEP and any relevant records
and documents.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 7.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 7.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association, of
JIEP and DKI thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date twelve years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify JIEP and DKI of this event.
Section 7.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VIII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 8.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿9
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For JEP:
P. T. Jakarta Industrial Estate
Pulo Gadung
Jl. Raya Bekasi Km. 21
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
JIEP-GADUNG
Jakarta
For DKI:
Pemerintah Daerah Khusus
Ibukota Jakarta
Merdeka Selatan 8-9
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
GUBERNUR
Jakarta
Section 8.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of JIEP may be taken or executed by the President Director of JIEP or such
other person or persons as the President Director of JIEP shall designate in writing.
Section 8.03. JIEP shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of JIEP, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by JIEP pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 8.04. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf


﻿10
of DKI may be taken or executed by the Governor of DKI or such other person
or persons as the Governor of DKI shall designate in writing.
Section 8.05. DKI shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of DKI, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by DKI pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement.
Section 8.06. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia
P. T. JAKARTA INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
PULO GADUNG
By /s/ Sjarif Thajeb
Authorized Representative
PEMERINTAH DAERAH KHUSUS
IBUKOTA JAKARTA
By /s/ Sjarif Thajeb
Authorized Representative


﻿L
11
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    Contracts Governed by Guidelines
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works, equipment, material and services
estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, JIEP shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and
shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall
reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by JIEP to the Association for its comments
before the applicants are notified and JIEP shall make such additions to or deletions
from the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, JIEP shall furnish to the Association, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or
procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification
to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, JIEP shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendations for award of the said consultants,
and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures set forth or
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, promptly inform JIEP and the
Borrower, state the reasons for such determination and advise JIEP of any
cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4(c) of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.


﻿12
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any contract for civil works, equipment, material and services
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $150,000 but of more than $10,000,
JIEP shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to
the delivery to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for awar'
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement,
promptly inform JIEP and the Borrower, state the reasons for such determination
and advise JIEP of any cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4(c)
of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement.
B.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
supplied goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided, and
bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for
imported goods, or the ex-factory price for locally produced goods. The cost to
the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in
the evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for
Procurement referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
2.    For purposes of the provisions hereinafter set forth, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
(a)   Preferred Domestic Bid means a bid offering goods manufactured in
Indonesia if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Indonesia of not less than 20% of the ex-factory bid price.
(b)   Non-preferred Domestic Bid means any other bid offering goods
manufactured in Indonesia.
(c)   Foreign Bid means any bid other than those specified in (a) or (b)
above.


﻿I
13
3.    For goods included in Category I of the table set out in paragraph I of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, a margin of preference may
be granted by the Borrower to Preferred Domestic Bids. Such preference shall be
granted by adding to each Foreign Bid, for the purpose only of comparison with
Preferred Domestic Bids, an amount (hereinafter called "Domestic Preference
Margin") equal to the smaller of (i) the amount of customs duties and other import
taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the goods offered in
the bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods.
4.    If Preferred Domestic Bids are received, the comparison among all evaluated
bids for each contract shall be made in the stages and with the preferences indicated
below:
Stage                     Bids to be Compared               Preference
1.              All Preferred Domestic Bids and Non-       None
preferred Domestic Bids.
II.        (a)  Lowest evaluated bid under Stage I,        Add Domestic
if Preferred Domestic Bid, with all        Preference
Foreign Bids;                              Margin to
Foreign Bids
or
(b)  Lowest evaluated bid under Stage I,        None
if Non-preferred Domestic Bid, with
all Foreign Bids.
111.            If lowest evaluated bid under Stage        None
11 is not the lowest evaluated bid
under Stage I, all Foreign Bids.
5.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted to Preferred Domestic Bids, the information required to establish the
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Prices and rents for the sale or lease of land and for the lease of standard
industrial buildings (see Section 3.06) in case of transactions concluded in 1973.
1.    Sale of land
Minimum price in
Payment terms                                         rupiah/square mvter
(a)   Payment of entire sales price in                              3,800
cash upon signing of contract
(b)   Payment of sales price in approxi-                            4,800
mately equal semi-annual install-
ments over 3 years from signing of
contract
(c)   Payment of sales price in approxi-                            6,085
mately equal semi-annual install-
ments over 10 years from signing
of contract
2.    Lease of industrial plots and of standard industrial buildings
Minimum annual rent
in rupiah/square meter
(a)   Land                                                           494
(b)   Standard industrial buildings                                6,225


