CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 428 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 14, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 428 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 14, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 1973, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by P.T. Jakarta Industrial Estate Pulo
Gadung (hereinafter called JIEP) and by Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara
(hereinafter called PLN) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to JIEP and PLN the proceeds of
the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association, JIEP and Pemerintah Daerah Khusus Ibukota
Jakarta (hereinafter called DKI);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿4
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association,
JIEP and DKI of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and JIEP pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   "PAM" means Perusahaan Air Minum, a corporation established and
operating under the laws of the Borrower and controlled by DKI;
(d)   "PERUMTEL"     means   Perusahaan  Umum    Telekomunikasi,  a
state-owned corporation (Perum) established and operating under the laws of the
Borrower;
(e)   "Estate" means the industrial estate to be established under the Project;
(f)   "Westinghouse" means Westinghouse Electric Corporation, a company
incorporated under the laws of the State of Pennsylvania, United States of America;
and
(g)   "rupiah" means rupiah in the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen million five hundred thousand
dollars ($16,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures


﻿5
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1978 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May I and
November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May I and November 1 commencing
November 1, 1983 and ending May 1, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on May 1, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project;
Provision of certain external Infrastructure
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
JIEP to carry out the Project (except Part C(1.) thereof) and to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of an equity contribution to JIEP's capital in
the amount of rupiahs 1,500,000,000 (including any such contribution made before


﻿6
the date of this Agreement), of adequate working capital as well as of any other
funds, facilities, services and resources, necessary or appropriate to enable JIEP
to perform such obligations, and shall not take, or permit any of its agencies,
instrumentalities or political subdivisions to take, any action which would prevent
or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend to JIEP such portion of the proceeds of
the Credit as shall be disbursed from the Credit Account for the Project (except
Part C(1.) thereof) under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and JIEP under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause PLN to carry out Part C(l.) of
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
economic, financial, administrative, public utilities and engineering practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds (including such portion of the proceeds
of the Credit as shall be disbursed from the Credit Account for Part C(I.) of
the Project), facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The funds referred to in paragraph (a) above shall be made available
to PLN in the form of equity contributions.
(c)   Without limitation on the generality of the provisions of paragraph
(a) above, the Borrower shall cause PLN to carry out Part C(l.)(i) of the Project
in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in Sections 2.03, 2.04,
2.05 and 2.06 of the Project Agreement with respect to the carrying out by JIEP
of the other Parts of the Project.
(d)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
(i) cause PLN to install such additional power generation and substation capacity
as will be required to meet the Estate's estimated demand after 1975, and (ii)
make available, or cause to be made available, to PLN the funds required therefor.
(e)   The Borrower shall cause PLN (i) no later than a date 60 days after
the date of this Agreement or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association
to enter into an agreement with JIEP satisfactory to the Association giving JIEP


﻿7
a right of first refusal for the purchase of any power generated by the facilities
included in Part C(1.)(i) of the Project or referred to in paragraph (d) above, and
(ii) to connect the Estate with PLN's power transmission system.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause PERUMTEL to connect the Estate
with its telephone system and to make available to the Estate at least 450 telephone
connections for the period through the end of 1978 and at least an additional
200 such connections thereafter.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by JIEP and DKI of their respective obligations under
the Project Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition,
resources and expenditures of JIEP and, in respect of the Project, of PLN and
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any
part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of JIEP and, in respect of the Project, of PLN and of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service


﻿8
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations -nder the Development
Credit Agreement or the performc nce by JIEP and DKI of their respective
obligations under the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:


﻿9
(a)   JIEP or DKI shall have failed to perform any of their respective
covenants, agreements oi obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b)   an  extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that JIEP or DKI will be able to perform their respective obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(c.) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of JIEP or of PLN or
for the suspension of the operations of JIEP or of PLN; and
(d)   JIEP shall have become unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceedings shall have been taken by JIEP whereby any of its property
shall or may be distributed among its creditors.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and JIEP; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of Section 6.02 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
JIEP and DKI have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and JIEP, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.


﻿10
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, JIEP and DKI, and constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of JIEP and DKI in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and JIEP,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
JIEP in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date November 14, 1973 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article III of this
Agreement and the provisions of Section 6.02 of this Agreement and those of
Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twelve years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 21
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
MINISTRY FINANCE
Jakarta


﻿11
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Sjarif Thajeb
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below   sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
I.   Material and                  3,000,000           100% of foreign
equipment for                                    expenditures,
Parts A(2.), B,                                  95% of local
C (except C(l.))                                 expenditures ex-
and D of the                                     factory and 83%
Project                                          of local expend-
itures off-the-
shelf
II.  Civil works for                9,200,000         65% of total
Parts A(2.), B,                                  expenditures
C (except C(1.))
and D of the
Project
III.  One power generat-            2,500,000          100% of foreign
ing set of about                                 expenditures
25 Mw capacity,
complete with
spares
IV.  Consultants'                     800,000          100% of foreign
services                                         expenditures
V.   Unallocated                    1,000,000
TOTAL              16,500,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the   term  "foreign  expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;


﻿I
13
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy


﻿14
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category II shall
increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the establishment of an industrial estate at Pulo Gadung,
Jakarta, to accelerate industrial growth and to assist in the development of domestic
industries. The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:     Land
(1.) The acquisition of about 420 hectares of land for the Estate at Pulo
Gadung, to be subdivided into about 150 plots designed for industrial
use and one plot designed for a management center.
(2.)  The filling, grading and compacting of, and the installation of a surface
drainage system on, the Estate.
Part B:     Roads
The construction of an internal road network on the Estate (including street
lighting and traffic lights) as follows:
(i)         about 11 km of main roads consisting of two 7 i wide roads
divided by a central median, separate lanes for 3-wheelers and
bicycles and sidewalks along the outer edge; and
(ii)        about 5 km of secondary roads consisting of one 8 in wide road
and sidewalks on both sides.
Part C:     Utilities
(1.) The construction and installation of an electric power generation and
distribution system on the Estate as follows:
(i)         a power generation plant of about 25 Mw capacity;
(ii)        an 8 Mva substation at the southern end of the Estate and a
30 Mva substation at the northeast corner of the Estate; and
(iii)       an electrical distribution system  (excluding street lighting and
traffic lights).


﻿16
(2.)  The installation of a water distribution system on the Estate consisting
of a water reservoir holding about 20,000 m3 of water, a pumping
station, an elevated storage tank holding about 7,000 m3 of water
and the necessary main lines and distribution piping.
(3.)  The installation of a biofilter liquid waste treatment plant and a sewage
collection network on the Estate.
(4.)  The installation of a fire fighting system on the Estate consisting of
the necessary ring and submains, hydrants, booster pumps and controls.
(5.)  The installation on the Estate of a telephone exchange (main or branch)
of about 650 lines with the internal distribution network on the Estate
and junctions to PERUMTEL's public network.
Part D:     Buildings
The construction of the following buildings:
(i)         a management complex consisting of two buildings with a
combined floor space of about 3,300 m2; and
(ii)        5 standard industrial buildings with a combined floor space of
about 22,400 m2 designed to accommodate a total of about
50 smallscale factories.
Part E:     Management
The establishment of management structure, systems and procedures
acceptable to the Association for the purpose of operating the Estate.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1977.


