                                      Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR2667



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
               (Project ID: P069460 -- Trust Fund No.TF54942)


                                    ON A
                                  GEF GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 6.31 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                          GOVERNMENT OF TUNISIA

                                        FOR A

            GULF OF GABES MARINE AND COASTAL RESOURCES

                             PROTECTION PROJECT




                                      June 2, 2013




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    Currency unit = Tunisian Dinar

                    TD 1.0 = US$ 0.74 (at appraisal)
                    US$ 1 = TD 1.3 (at appraisal)

                    TD 1.0 = US$ 0.64 (at ICR)
                    US$ 1 = TD 1.54 (at ICR)

                     Weights and Measures : Metric
Fiscal Year of the Borrower/Recipient : from 01 January to 31 December


              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
 APAL              Coastal Planning and Protection Agency
                   Agence de Protection et d’Aménagement du Littoral
 CAS               Comtry Assistance Strategy (World Bank)
 CITET             International Center for Technology and the Environment of Tunis
                   Centre International des Technologies de l’Environnement de Tunis
 DGEQV             General Directorate of Environment and Quality of Life
                   Direction Générale de 1'Environnement et la Qualité de Vie
 EMP               Environmental Management Plan
 GEF               Global Environment Facility
 GEO               Global Environmental Objective
 GIS               Geographic Information System
 ICR               Implementation Completion Report
 ISR               Information Status and Results.
 INSTM             National Institute of Sciences and Marine Technologies
                   Institut National des Sciences et Technologies de la Mer
 MAE               Ministry of Agriculture and Environment
                   Ministère de l’Agriculture et de l’Elevage
 ME                Ministry of Environment (Ministère de l’Environnement)
 M&E               Monitoring & Evaluation
 NGO               Non-Governmental Organization
 PAD               Project Appraisal Document
 PAD               Project Appraisal Document
 PDO               Project Development Objective
 PMU               Project Management Unit (central level)
 POU               Project Operational Unit (in Gabes)
 SEE               Strategic Environmental Evaluation
 UNDP              United Nations Development Program
 WB                World Bank

         Vice President:             Inger Andersen
         Country Director:           Neil Simon M. Gray
         Sector Manager:             Charles Joseph Cormier
         Project Team Leader:        Garry Charlier
         ICR Team Leader:            Taoufiq Bennouna




                                     ii
                                                      COUNTRY
                                                       Tunisia


                                                     CONTENTS
Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ......................................................................................... 12
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 22
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 23

ANNEXES
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................................... 25
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component .............................................................................................. 26
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 30
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......................... 32
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 34
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................................... 35
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 36
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 40
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents................................................................................... 41




                                                              iii
                                     DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                           Gulf of Gabes Marine
Country:                Tunisia                  Project Name:             and Coastal Resources
                                                                           Protection Project
Project ID:             P069460                  L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-54942
ICR Date:               06/02/2013               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                      Borrower:
                                                                           TUNISIA
Original Total
                        USD 6.31M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 4.79M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 6.31M
Environmental Category: B                        Global Focal Area: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Agence de Protection et d'Amenagement du Littoral (APAL)
 Centre International des Technologies de l'Environnement de Tunis (CITET)
 Direction Générale de l'Environnement et de la Qualité de la Vie (DGEQV)
 Institut National des Sciences et Technologies de la Mer (INSTM)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process             Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       02/11/2003     Effectiveness:
Appraisal:            09/02/2004     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             03/10/2005     Mid-term Review:           01/12/2009         01/08/2009
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2010         12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome               Substantial
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                   Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:                Moderately Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing               Moderately Satisfactory

                                                iv
                                                  Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                      Overall Borrower
                          Moderately Satisfactory                            Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                      Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             Moderately Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status    Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                      30                  30
General public administration sector                                  20                  20
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                 50                  50


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               14                  14
Biodiversity                                                          29                  29
Environmental policies and institutions                               14                  14
Participation and civic engagement                                    29                  29
Water resource management                                             14                  14

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Inger Andersen                       Christiaan J. Poortman
Country Director:          Neil Simon M. Gray                   Theodore O. Ahlers
Sector Manager:            Charles Joseph Cormier               Inger Andersen
Project Team Leader:       Taoufiq Bennouna                     Allan Rotman
ICR Team Leader:           Taoufiq Bennouna
ICR Primary Author:        Angelo Bonfiglioli




                                                   v
F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
Establish a functional integrated monitoring and participatory management system for the
project area to manage biodiversity degradation in the Gulf of Gabes region

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications


(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target        Formally   Actual Value
                                            Values (from          Revised    Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                              approval             Target  Completion or
                                             documents)            Values   Target Years
                Cumulative scores based on the Management Effectiveness Tool for the
Indicator 1 :
                biodiversity management plans at the six pilot sites
Value
(quantitative or No                          Yes                                Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                     03/31/2012                         12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                 One long-term strategy for an integrated approach to biodiversity protections
Indicator 2 : prepared that addresses scientific, social and economic issues, including
                 replication of biodiversity management plans
Value
(quantitative or No                          Yes                                1
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                     12/31/2012                         12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                 Necessary resources (i.e. human, financial institutional and infrastructure)
Indicator 3 :
                 included in 11th and 12th National Plans
Value
(quantitative or No                          Yes                                Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                     12/31/2012                         12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                 Baseline data collected and key indicators for marine fish species and habitats
Indicator 4 :
                 identified
Value
(quantitative or No                          Yes                                Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                     12/31/2012                         12/31/2012

                                                vi
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :      Baseline data collected and key indicators for water quality identified
Value
(quantitative or   No                         Yes                                Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved      06/30/2005                 12/31/2012                         12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :      Scientific monitoring reports on trends for key indicators for two years
Value
(quantitative or   No                         Yes                                Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved      06/30/2005                 12/31/2012                         12/31/2012
Comments
                   Fully achieved. 4 scientific reports were elaborated. Unplanned GIS web
(incl. %
                   integrating information from project activity and study results was elaborated
achievement)
                 A system for timely and reliable monitoring of biodiversity resources established
Indicator 7 :
                 by 2010
                                                                               The 4 scientific
                                                                               reports were
                 0% of baseline data        Scientific reports                 elaborated.
Value            collected, and 0% of key on key indicators                    Unplanned GIS
(quantitative or indicators identified for for the last 2 years                web integrating
Qualitative)     marine fish species and of the project - 4                    information from
                 habitats and water quality reports total.                     project activity and
                                                                               study results was
                                                                               elaborated
Date achieved 06/30/2005                    12/31/2012                         12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %         115%
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                            Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                          Revised
                                              approval                      Completion or
                                                           Target Values
                                             documents)                      Target Years
                   Number of Project Management Unit (PMU) and Project Operational Unit
Indicator 1 :
                   (POU) staff in place
Value
(quantitative or 2                            12                                 14
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/10/2005                      12/31/2012                         12/31/2012
Comments         116%

                                                    vii
(incl. %
achievement)
                   Fiduciary reports submitted -updated procurement (annual) and financial project
Indicator 2 :
                   audit (annual)
Value
(quantitative or   0                         10                                 15
Qualitative)
Date achieved      03/10/2005                12/31/2012                         12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %           150 % due to the 2 project extended closing dates
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      Long-term strategy for biodiveristy conservation in the Gulf of Gabes prepared
Value
(quantitative or   0                         1                                  1
Qualitative)
Date achieved      03/10/2005                12/31/2012                         12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %           100%
achievement)
                 Number of training sessions carried out and number of attendees (as per semi-
Indicator 4 :
                 annual reports)
Value                                       33 training
                                                                                40 training sessions
(quantitative or 0                          sessions (250
                                                                                (1413 trainees)
Qualitative)                                trainees)
Date achieved 03/10/2005                    12/31/2012                          12/31/2012
Comments
                 121 % for Number of training sessions
(incl. %
                 carried out and 565% for Number of attendees of training sessions
achievement)
                 Reports (i) on water quality Djerba Zarzis and (ii) Inventories for native and alien
Indicator 5 : marine fish, and strategy for ballast
                 water management prepared
Value
(quantitative or 0                          5                                   4
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/10/2005                    12/31/2012                          12/31/2012
                 80 %
Comments         - Report on water quality Djerba Zarzis was not completed
(incl. %         - Inventory of native and alien marine fish, and management of ballast waters
achievement) was completed in May 2012
                 - Inventory on marine species was completed in March 2012
                 Impacts of fishing on biodiversity and a manual of good practice for fishing
Indicator 6 :
                 prepared
Value
(quantitative or 0                          1                                   1
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/10/2005                    12/31/2012                          12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %         100 %
achievement)

                                                  viii
Indicator 7 : Satisfactory biodiversity management plans completed
Value
(quantitative or 0                            6                                 6
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/10/2005                      12/31/2012                        12/31/2012
                 100%
Comments
                 5 biodiversity management plans prepared for Kneiss, Jerkennah, El Bibane
(incl. %
                 Boughrara and Gabes Oasis. A sixth management plan was prepared for the
achievement)
                 marine seagrass pilot site (South-East of Kerkennah)
                 Biodiversity management plans satisfactorily implemented during the project
Indicator 8 :
                 period
Value
(quantitative or 0                            3                                 3
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/10/2005                      12/31/2012                        12/31/2012
Comments
                 Three management plans were implemented in Boughrara (construction of
(incl. %
                 visitors' center), Kneiss (bird-watching facility), and Kerkennah pilot site.
achievement)
Indicator 9 : Annual report on local development commitees activities
Value
(quantitative or 0                            5                                 5
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/10/2003                      12/31/2012                        12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %         100%
achievement)
Indicator 10 : Local Development Committees formed
Value
(quantitative or 0                            6                                 5
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/10/2005                      12/31/2012                        12/31/2012
Comments         Only 5 Committees have been created in the areas where biodiversity
(incl. %         management plans were prepared, because in the sixth one (Kerkennah site) there
achievement) is no resident population.
                 Annual report on local development committees activities (indicator not included
Indicator 11 :
                 in the PAD)
Value
(quantitative or 0                            5                                 5
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/10/2005                      12/31/2012                        12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %         100%
achievement)
Indicator 12 : Baseline significant posidonia (sea grass) areas identified
Value
(quantitative or No                           Yes                               Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/10/2005                      12/31/2012                        12/31/2012
Comments         100%

                                               ix
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 13 : Report detailing satisfactory participation of stakeholders semi-annual report
Value
(quantitative or 0                        1                                   1
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/10/2005                  12/31/2012                          12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             GEO                            IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     04/27/2005         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     09/03/2005         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.60
  3     03/06/2006         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.64
  4     11/30/2006     Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              0.72
  5     04/25/2007     Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              0.80
  6     08/03/2007     Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     0.92
  7     02/03/2008         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     1.08
  8     12/29/2008         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     1.37
  9     06/27/2009     Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              2.14
 10     12/28/2009     Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              2.26
 11     06/29/2010     Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              2.99
 12     11/08/2010         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     2.99
 13     03/29/2011         Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory              3.38
 14     10/05/2011         Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory              3.73
                                                          Moderately
 15     06/29/2012     Moderately Satisfactory                                            3.84
                                                        Unsatisfactory
                                                          Moderately
 16     12/31/2012     Moderately Satisfactory                                            4.20
                                                        Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                 x
I. Disbursement Profile




                          xi
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
1. The Golf of Gabes, a Mediterranean zone with important biological resources and
rich coastal, marine and freshwater ecosystems, is particularly exposed to anthropogenic
factors (including over-fishing and sea-bed trawling and wastewater pollution from
urban and industrial sources) altering its natural features. Since the beginning of the
2000s, the Tunisian government, fully aware of the potential and the challenges of this
zone, had stressed the importance of adopting a pragmatic and integrated approach aimed
at safeguarding natural resources, including land and water conservation, mitigating on-
going or potential threats to biodiversity, and addressing social and environmental
concerns, while contributing to better harmonizing planning with other investment
programs and projects.

2. At the time of project conception and appraisal, the key issues were the following:
   (i) Resulting from the National Biodiversity Strategy, the government of Tunisia had
        already started to initiate actions in a range of areas, but particularly focused on
        environmental management infrastructure as a consequence of industrial and
        urban waste and pollution;
   (ii) Pollution was just one of the factors responsible for the decline in biodiversity;
        action in other areas was required to halt the worsening situation in biodiversity;
        Some sectors such as tourism were being given special emphasis by the
        government but this created environmental and biodiversity issues for which there
        were no management or mitigating plans;
   (iii)While there were huge areas with decimated biodiversity but which offered scope
        for rehabilitation, there were others which were pristine and needed to be
        preserved as such and required appropriate management plans. Authorities were
        aware of the long-term shrinkage of the sea grass bed, but did not have sufficient
        scientific data to understand the ecological processes taking place;
   (iv) Biodiversity conservation and development initiatives were generally considered
        to be mutually exclusive; there was a need for an integrated approach to
        sustainable development while conserving biodiversity, and this required a bundle
        of development strategies based on an integrated and participatory approach; and
   (v) There was a clear consensus that there was a need for capacity building at all
        levels in the governmental structures and also in the community to deal with
        biodiversity conservation issues. It was in this context that the project was
        prepared and appraised.

3. By preserving the biological resources through conservation areas (to be set up and
strengthened) and planning for sustainable use of resources, comprising integrated
objectives for conservation of biological diversity, productive uses and socio-economic
development, the project therefore intended to contribute to increasing the benefits of
other large public sector investment programs in urban wastewater treatment, industrial
pollution control, improved urban management, tourism development, and fisheries.

4. The project was built upon several Government policy instruments on environment,
biodiversity and social development, particularly the ‘National Strategy for the Protection
                                             1
of the Environment and Sustainable Development’, the ‘National Action Plan for the
Environment’ (NEAP) and ‘the National Strategy and Action Plan for Biodiversity’. It
stressed the need for greater institutional attention to integrate water and natural resources
management issues in a more efficient and sustainable manner, while highlighting the
participation of beneficiary communities and users in rural areas, therefore contribution
to strengthening efficient and decentralized local investments.

5. Rationale for Bank Involvement. The project design and implementation greatly
benefitted from the World Bank and GEF added value and experience, to rapidly launch
activities to protect biodiversity that might not have been funded as a short-term budget
priority, and support decentralized participatory management plans to protect biodiversity
of global value that would have not been part of Government priority activities. Main
aspects of the rationale for Bank involvement were the following:
a) Funding: the issues relating to biodiversity conservation were critical at that juncture
    but government had difficulty in allocating funds to this agenda; the GEF project
    could provide funds to leverage government contribution;
b) Participatory planning and management, including monitoring: this was a new
    concept in Tunisia, and one which would require considerable capacity building and
    stakeholder participation, an area in which the government had limited experience;
    and
c) International experience: GEF would bring scientific knowledge and approaches used
    elsewhere in the world in similar situations which could be very rewarding.

6. The project directly supported the Tunisia CAS. It aimed at ensuring that social and
environmental objectives (CAS Outcome 1.4, within Objective No.1) were properly
addressed. The project was also clearly addressing the requirements of the two key pillars
of GEF: (a) biodiversity conservation in protected areas; and (b) mainstreaming
biodiversity in production through integrated approaches to development. The project
intended to contribute to safeguarding natural resources including land and water
conservation and to increasing the benefits of other large public sector investment
programs in urban wastewater treatment, industrial pollution control, improved urban
management, tourism development, and fisheries.

1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)


7. The PDO/GEO was to establish a functional integrated monitoring and participatory
management system for the project area to manage biodiversity degradation in the Gulf of
Gabes region.

8. The project did not intend to actually initiate actions to reduce a decline in
biodiversity generally as the project period of five years was too short to see any
significant result in this area over larger territories. Instead it intended to generate a
broad strategy for sustainable management of biodiversity in the Gulf of Gabes; a
strategy for some key sectors and participatory approaches; and a strategy for managing
some key causes of biodiversity decline, all of which were to be amenable to replication
in other parts of Tunisia in the post-project period. The project as also expected to
                                              2
develop and implement an integrated system for biodiversity monitoring in the project
area.
(i) Management of biodiversity was to be measured by:
     (a) Scores on “Management Effectiveness Tracking Tool? for the biodiversity
         management plans
     (b) One long-term strategy for an integrated approach to biodiversity protections
         prepared that addresses scientific, social and economic issues, including
         replication of biodiversity management plans?;
     (c) Necessary resources (i.e. human and financial) included in the 11th and 12th
         National Plan; and;
     (d) Other strategies for biodiversity management developed, such as management of
         invasive species from ballast water disposal, management of chemical spillovers,
         and sustainable fishery.
(ii) Functional biodiversity monitoring system was to be measured by:
     (a) Baseline data collected and key indicators for marine fish species and habitats
         identified;
     (b) Baseline data collected and key indicators for water quality identified;
     (c) Baseline significant seagrass beds areas identified;
     (d) Scientific monitoring reports on trends for key indicators for two years; and
     (e) GIS developed and a functional Information Exchange Center established which
         integrates project generated technical, bio-diversity and socioeconomic data, and
         other existing non-project data for easy access.
(iii) Participatory approach to biodiversity management as measured by:
     (a) Training sessions carried out at various levels - government/policy makers,
         enforcers of regulations, other stakeholders, including the community and CSOs;
     (b) Report detailing satisfactory participation of stakeholders;
     (c) Local Development committees formed; and
     (d) Six site-based biodiversity management plans prepared in a participatory manner
         (including one in the marine pilot site).

1.2 Revised PDO/GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
    Indicators, and reasons/justification.


9. The PDO and the GEO have not been changed since Board Approval of the Project.
Key indicators were not changed.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

10. The project was designed to directly benefit communities that exploit coastal marine
resources at the various sites chosen, comprising first and foremost fishermen, farmers in
the Gabes oasis, local NGOs active in the development and environmental protection
sector, local professional organizations, local authorities, and the tourism and hotel sector
(particularly in the Jerba-Zarzis area).




                                             3
1.5 Original Components

11. The project, whose budget was estimated at US$9.81 million, of which US$6.31 were
funded by a grant from the Global Environment Facility (GEF), and approximately US$3
million financed by the Government of Tunisia), comprised four components, with
related sub-components and activities.
a) Component 1 (US$3.94 million): Institutional strengthening, strategic planning and
    dissemination, including a Project Management Unit (PMU) and Project Operational
    Unit (POU); quality control and valuation for project activities; and long-term
    strategy to protect biodiversity.
b) Component 2 (US$1.35 million): Training and capacity building aimed to strengthen
    human resources for project management, technical, scientific and public
    participation skills to improve management for biodiversity. It included: training on
    managing marine and coastal biodiversity and developing project management skills;
    public awareness initiatives for target communities, local stakeholder; training and
    capacity building for Government agency staff to help enforce biodiversity protection
    provisions in marine and coastal regulations; socio-economic surveys of target
    populations and other stakeholder groups; and preparation of a participatory
    methodologies for local development committees and other stakeholders to ensure
    incorporation of participation into biodiversity management.
c) Component 3 (US$1.20 million): Baseline marine data acquisition and applied
    biodiversity monitoring to acquire and update the technical scientific data needed for
    biodiversity management plans, and then monitor key scientific project performance
    indicators. It included hydrodynamic and water quality studies for the Gulf of Gabes;
    inventories and monitoring of marine and lagoon fish species of regional and global
    interest; inventories and monitoring of alien species and their distribution within the
    Gulf; a regional management strategy to address ballast water disposal and alien
    species; and evaluation of biodiversity impacts from fishing fleets and preparation of
    guidelines recommending changes to fishing practices to ensure biodiversity
    sustainability.
d) Component 4 (US$3.32 million): Participatory biodiversity management plans to
    prepare sustainable biodiversity management plans for six pilot sites and implement
    them in the three priority sites. All plans, included a participatory preparation of a
    general methodology for the participatory biodiversity management plans;
    preparation and implementation of the management plan for the sea grass area;
    inventories and mapping of the marine plant cover to fill the existing data gaps and
    widen the existing baseline data; monitoring network for significant sea grass areas;
    Implementation of six management plans; and a Geographic Information System
    (GIS) to serve as a database for the Information Exchange Center.

1.6 Revised Components


12. The initial components were not changed.




                                            4
1.7 Other significant changes

13. Aside from some reallocations of funds from one component to another (see below),
no major changes were made to the project (as stated in the original PAD). However, the
closing date, which originally was on 30 June 2010, was subsequently revised to 31
March 2012 and then again to 31 December 2012 to make up for the two-year delay
incurred in start-up of project activities and additional delays because of social unrest in
Tunisia at the beginning of 2011.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

14. The project was based on sound background analysis. Overall, the project was
based on a sound background analysis, on important international conventions and
treaties ratified by the Government (including the ‘Ramsar Convention’, Desertification
Convention and Convention on Biological Diversity), as well as on several Government
policy instruments such as the following:
 The ‘National Strategy for the Protection of the Environment and Sustainable
    Development’ (defining priority areas and actions to be undertaken),
 The ‘National Action Plan for the Environment’ (NEAP)
 The’ National Strategy and Action Plan for Biodiversity’ (whose priorities included,
    among others, improving scientific knowledge and improving the protection and
    management of crucial ecosystem, as well as strengthening institutions and
    regulations, and
 The ‘National Tourism Strategy?, which relates to a sector that generates major
    revenue but also threatens biodiversity, especially in coastal areas.

15. The project was also innovative in: (i) expanding the scope of the traditional land-use
plans for sensitive coastal areas implemented by the APAL; (ii) introducing the concept
of ‘integrated’ management of ecosystems (a notion used in the Mediterranean area only
from 2008 onwards); and (iii) building a functional integrated monitoring and
participatory management system to manage biodiversity degradation through a range of
scientific studies, evaluations and assessments.

16. The project background analysis was generally adequate. The project, prepared at
the request of the Government of Tunisia, was designed on the basis of available
information about the scale and magnitude of the actual situation of marine ecosystems
and potential threats, and committed financial support by the Government. The project
consisted mainly of TA activities, whose scope and nature were well defined, with only a
few small structures to be built or rehabilitated at the three priority sites. The project
contributed to social mobilization and sensitization of institutional actors on key
biodiversity and conservation-related issues.

17. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design: The project design took into
account lessons learned from two GEF-financed projects in Tunisia to protect
biodiversity, both offering important lessons on coordinating the efforts of the agencies

                                             5
involved: (i) the ‘Protected Areas Management Project’ (GEF/World Bank), and (ii) the
‘Regional ‘Conservation of Wetlands and Coastal Ecosystems in the Mediterranean
Region’ Project (GEF/UNDP). Both projects, carried out through the same agencies
(DGEQV and APAL), offered important lessons on coordinating the efforts of the
agencies involved. These were, in turn incorporated into the current project design,
particularly in relation to: the importance of stakeholder participation, ensuing clarity of
objectives and components, incorporating past experience, identification and
management of risks, effective monitoring and evaluation. Moreover, a new technique to
monitor implementation progress was adopted, based on international experience.

18. Assessment of project design. The main themes and issues identified by the project
were adequate. Objectives and components were in line with the Government of
Tunisia’s objectives with regard to biodiversity conservation. The project also took into
account the diversity of real challenges faced by the fishery sector (in terms of pollution,
for instance), particularly the need for social sustainability by promoting sustainable
natural resource use by local communities and supporting nature-based tourism in and
around protected areas. Pilot sites were selected because of their importance for
sustainable development, and because their piloting management plans could be
replicated elsewhere along the Tunisian coast. Finally, the participation of local
communities was intended to foster the entire approach. However, the following
weaknesses should also be highlighted:
Institutional arrangements
 The design of institutional arrangements led to complex and laborious procedures
    with four different implementing agencies (despite the fact that during preparation the
    absence of integration between the departments had been emphasized). The PAD and,
    especially, the Grant Agreement comprised very detailed procedures and mechanisms
    that somehow prevented forms of inter-agency collaboration (ex. different rates of
    government’s contributions were applied to the different components) and flexibility
    during implementation.
Other weaknesses
 More consideration, time and effort would have been necessary to implement
    innovative participatory project activities (which were supposed to cover different
    sectors and required biodiversity management plan preparation for six sites, and
    implementation in three sites). Community participation focused on capacity building,
    but did not address the real participation of local communities in decision-making
    processes`, except in 2012 but time was very short to really improve community
    participation.
 Timing for the implementation of the different activities was unrealistic, particularly
    given predictable delays in procurement procedures.
 The design lacked adequate mechanisms and resources to build on lessons learned
    and mainstream them into planning (to ensure sustainability).
 Some budget lines were inadequate or erroneously calculated.

19. Assessment of risks and their mitigation. The two key risks that were under-
estimated were: (a) ensuring public participation; and (b) procurement procedures.
Although mitigation measures were recommended and indeed implemented, these were
clearly inadequate to mitigate the two identified risks.

                                             6
20. Adequacy of government’s commitment, stakeholder involvement, and/or
participatory processes. The project was developed on the basis of Tunisia’s
commitments to global and regional biodiversity conservation as evidenced by its
ratification of key international conventions (‘Combat Desertification’, ‘Biological
Diversity’). At the national level, project preparation also benefitted from collaboration
between different national ministerial departments and scientific institutions. Furthermore,
it should be pointed out that no QAE was carried out for the project.

2.2 Implementation


21. The most important factor contributing to the delayed and incomplete implementation
of the project was the social unrest and political changes in Tunisia that put
implementation behind by more than 18 months.

22. The Project was not fully operational for at least two years after Board approval. The
2009 Mid-Term evaluation was focused on addressing this 24 month-delay (and stressed
the importance of institutional arrangement-related issues and lack of procurement
capacities) and formulated some recommendations in this regard (but did not suggest
major restructuring). The project implementation was accelerated mainly during its last
year during which the most results were delivered. Specific implementation-related
problems were the following:
 As a direct result of the institutional arrangements of the project, the four components
    were managed by the four implementing agencies as quasi-autonomous ‘sub-projects’
    with minimal interactions (each component/agency having its own budget, specific
    procurement procedures, action plans, chronograms, and hierarchical reporting). For
    example, there was little coordination between CITET-related social mobilization
    initiatives for Component 2 and APAL-supported preparation of local management
    plans for Component 4.
 The project Steering committee was not efficient, because of too many participating
    institutions, inadequate knowledge of the project by its participants, and rarity of
    meetings. The Steering committee therefore failed to act as a multi-sectoral institution
    providing overall policy guidance to the project, and acted sporadically only as a
    simple network to exchange and discuss information and define potential synergies.
 Project implementation was negatively affected by turnover of key resource persons,
    jeopardizing staff stability and continuity of work. More particularly, over the course
    of implementation, the project had four national directors, two project coordinators
    and three coordinators of the Gabes-based POU.

23. Project restructuring. The project team demonstrated a range of reactions to the
project design. The team seized opportunities to make some changes in terms of
reallocation of funds, adding a couple of additional studies, and initiating actions for
formulating a communication strategy (although it could have better used the MTR’s
recommendations and improve institutional arrangements and indicators). There were no
major changes in terms of components, of agencies involved in the implementation of the
various activities or of institutional arrangements.


                                             7
24. However, in addition to postponing twice the closing date, the following financial
restructuring measures were taken:
 Funds initially planned for activities of component 3.b relating to consultants for
    CITET and APAL were transferred to category 4.a (capacity building for
    development committees (about US$350,000). These reallocations, which had to be
    made because of some inaccuracies in original budget allocations, were considered
    necessary in order to implement planned activities.
 Tunisian authorities requested in June 2011 (and subsequently obtained) a
    restructuring of the GEF contribution, with the transfer of the responsibility of
    studying the impact of industrial fishing on biodiversity of the Gulf of Gabes from
    INSTM to DGEQV.

25. To overcome some design-related shortcomings and improve adaptation to changing
conditions, a range of activities were added during implementation, such as the
following:
 A study on environmental feasibility of industrial development in Skhir.
 An assessment of management efficiency of pilot locations (through tracking tools).
 A synthesis report on project achievements, followed by Plan of Action addressing
    priority initiatives to be implemented by key stakeholders.
 The creation of an internal committee in charge of synthesizing project achievements
    and formulate a comprehensive communication strategy in order to mainstream
    lessons learned into sectoral development plans. This led to various activities aimed at
    improving project visibility (such as publication of the synthesis report, creation of a
    Web site, organization of a workshop on project sustainability).
 A revision of the capacity building plan in order to integrate new topics identified
    during implementation (such as Environmental and Social Assessment (ESA) and
    ornithology-related issues).

26. Moreover, some activities which had initially been planned were actually dropped
(such as the social and environmental assessment of the tourism industry because it was
not considered to be part of the mandate of the Ministry of Environment). These changes
had no substantial impact on the achievement of the project’s objectives.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization.

27. An M&E system had been elaborated by an external consultant (recruited by the
DGEQV between 2007 and 2010). Subsequently, as the performance of the consultant
was not considered satisfactory, the emphasis was put on the preparation by each of the
implementing agencies of timely comprehensive reports (including use of tracking tools)
even in the absence of an M&E specialist. By using their own M&E systems,
implementing agencies appropriately evaluated their data and extensively used them to
assess achievements and constraints, and inform decision-making and resource
allocations.




                                             8
28. Original performance indicators were used. However, an optimal ratio between
qualitative and quantitative indicators seems to have been a permanent challenge during
implementation.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance.

29. Environmental and Social Safeguard. The Project was classified as category B. It
triggered Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) - the Government had prepared an
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) - and Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) -
the Process Framework having addressed the potential restriction of access to resources,
although the potential effect on livelihoods had not been determined. During project
formulation, an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) had described three major
mitigation measures through (i) management plans to avoid environmental impacts, (ii)
participation of stakeholders to incorporate their knowledge about local threats to
biodiversity, and (iii) environmental monitoring of key indicators of fish species, habitat,
water quality and significant areas of Posidonia oceanic/ seagrass. During project
preparation, several workshops were held with local stakeholders who proposed
mitigation and monitoring measures which were subsequently incorporated into the
project design. In June 2012, the project launched a ‘Social and Environmental
Evaluation’ of project activities, including the formulation of environmental management
plans (PGE) for the construction works of the Boughrara visitor center and of activities in
the artificial reefs south of Kerkennah Islands. These plans, to be eventually implemented
with the participation of local population, were discussed during a workshop held in
Gabes and the reports posted in the ministry’s Web site.

30. In terms of social safeguard, key initiatives during implementation were the
following:
 Creation of and support to local development committees in each of the pilot sites,
 Active participation of local stakeholders in reviewing, discussing and validating
    project’s documentation (minutes of large meetings)
 Participation of local stakeholders in discussion concerning management plans of
    selected pilot sites
 Local NGOs’ involvement in formulating micro-projects in a participatory manner.
 Evaluation of social aspects of project initiatives (in compliance with the Bank’s
    safeguard policies).
 Organization of training sessions on social and environmental safeguard policies by
    CITET. 1




1
  It should also be pointed out here that no major civil work was undertaken under this project. Moreover, the activities
related to the trigged safeguards policies were achieved in compliance with the project ESMF.




                                                            9
(b) Financial management.
31. The four executing agencies had acceptable staff capacity, accounting and internal
control system. The project did not use a computerized accounting system and each
executing agency prepared its financial statements on Excel sheet and then submitted
them to the PMU for the consolidation of the overall project financial statements.

32. Audits were conducted annually by CGF (Contrôle Général des Finances), reports
were delivered to the Bank, and revealed no particular accounting issues.

(c) Disbursement.
33. At the end (revised closing date of 31 December 2012), only 73% of the Grant had
been disbursed. At the end of the grace period (end of April 2013), the total amount
disbursed was however equivalent to 75% of the Grant which means that US$4,790,000
of the total commitment of US$ 6,310,000 had been utilized.

(d) Procurement:
34. The project experienced several difficulties during procurement implementation, and
in response, the Bank sought to provide continuous and regular support to advise
implementing agencies on tailoring procurement arrangements effectively to the country
and project conditions. In general, the implementation of procurement activities by the
four implementing agencies was inconsistent because: (i) each agency had its own
practices and mechanisms, (ii) some staff in charge of procurement functions had
unsatisfactory procurement qualifications, (iii) the Bank’s guidelines and procurement
arrangements set forth in the Grant Agreement were at times misinterpreted or
misunderstood, and (iv) the cumbersome superposition of both Bank’s and Government’s
procurement procedures prevented efficient and timely implementation of procurement
activities. This has resulted in the cancellation of two works contracts that were supposed
to be implemented by APAL with a total amount of about US$ 0.9 million.

35. Moreover, the project has experienced some contract management deficiencies
especially within the framework of the ‘Hydrodynamic and water quality studies for the
Gulf of Gabes’ and ‘Inventories and monitoring of marine and lagoon fish species’ which
were implemented by INSTM. By project completion, INSTM was unable to settle a
dispute with and between the two consulting firms involved in the study.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

36. Key project activities had been designed to continue after project completion, with
replication in Tunisia and elsewhere in the Mediterranean region. Main activities were
supposed to be the following: (a) implementation of management plans at other pilot
sites, (b) identification of other seagrass areas in the Gulf to be managed with the
biodiversity principles and monitoring techniques piloted during the project; and (c)
application of participatory approaches and use of scientific knowledge, monitoring
techniques and project key performance indicators in other Tunisian ecosystems.



                                            10
37. Today, at completion, these challenges are still pertinent. The project has contributed
to creating the conditions necessary to meet a number of important challenges,
particularly the following:
 Formulation of sustainable strategic approaches for long-term biodiversity
    management not only in the Gulf of Gabes, but also in other similar ecosystems (in
    Tunisia and, possibly, elsewhere).
 Development and dissemination (publications, Web sites, etc.) of highly valued
    scientific knowledge.
 Development of a range of best practices and planning tools.
 Establishment of a sustainable system of knowledge management and sharing.
 Collection of a corpus of legal and regulatory texts related to biodiversity
    management in Tunisia.
 Strengthening of institutional capacities of key implementing agencies.
 Identification of conditions required to strengthen the mandates of national
    institutions involved in ecosystem management and biodiversity conservation.
 Adequate estimation of the technical, scientific, human and financial resources
    required to reach a sustainable level of effort to protect biodiversity resources.
 Identification of the most relevant environmental and social issues.
 Adequate levels of sensitization of local stakeholders (including civil society) on
    environmental issues.
 Improved general awareness of the importance of participatory mechanisms for
    planning and implementing development initiatives, in the context of new overall
    democratic trends of Tunisian society.2
 Creation of a network of scholars, practitioners, civil society associations, and NGOs
    around biodiversity issues in Tunisia, in general, and in the Golf of Gabes, in
    particular.
 Elaboration of tools to sustain planning and capacity building initiatives.

38. Important uncertainties affect the potential institutional sustainability of some of the
activities which have been initiated (particularly in terms of implementation of
biodiversity management plans within a clear legal and institutional framework and
integrated approach to biodiversity protection). The project has contributed to creating
new dynamics at the local level and raising expectations of local institutional actors. It
will be important not to lose the momentum in order to ensure and consolidate
sustainability of the gains achieved. Some promising openings have recently been made
by APAL in terms of ensuring, in collaboration with DGEQV and INSTM, a short/mid-
term support to a regional operational unit in order to address key issues (such as
sustainable institutional setting, social mobilization, implementation of integrated
management plans, financial resource mobilization, monitoring of Posidonia sea grass
etc.). On a longer-term, the forthcoming World Bank/GEF ‘Oasis project’ would focus on



2
 For instance, because of the new democratic dynamics, Local Development Committees (LDCs) were reshaped in
order to better reflect real representatives of local stakeholders and its members were better enabled to articulate their
needs and priorities.


                                                           11
some of the key issues raised by the project and adopt its best practices and lessons
learned.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation.
Rating: Substantial
39. Relevance of objectives. The PDO continues to remain highly relevant. The
integrated and participatory approach is indeed the best way to promote a balanced and
sustainable approach to biodiversity conservation and development. The project is still in
line with the Bank’s current support to Tunisia as outlined in the Interim Strategy Note
(ISN, FY13-14) aimed at (i) laying the foundations for renewed sustainable growth and
job creation; (ii) promoting social and economic inclusion; and (iii) strengthening
governance: Voice, Transparency and Accountability. The project is also in line with key
current national policies and development strategies, particularly because of a new
national emphasis, since the 2011 January ‘revolution’, on participation of local
stakeholder in decision-making processes.

40. Relevance of design. The general design reflected proper diagnosis for a
development approach bringing together environmental and development issues and
fostering dialogue, partnership and collaboration among diverse national and regional
institutions. Very pertinently, the project specifically dealt with the complex nature of
biodiversity protection, emphasizing the need to improve the knowledge base and
introduce the notion of ‘integrated’ and ‘participatory’ management. However, the
development of individual management plans should have been accompanied by and
incorporated into an overall legal and institutional framework (a kind of ‘regional master
plan’ or ‘schéma directeur régional). Also as discussed elsewhere, the project design
involved a complicated institutional set up that would lead to complex processes and
coordination issues.

41. Relevance of Implementation. Implementation arrangements which allocated
responsibilities for project components across four agencies without succeeding in
achieving collaboration and coordination between them did not set a model for
replication.

3.2 Achievement of Project Environmental Objectives. Rating: Substantial

42. This section of the ICR describes general achievements of the project, on the basis of
the main elements of the PDO/GEO i.e. (i) manage biodiversity degradation in the Gulf
of Gabes region; (ii) a functional integrated monitoring system; and (iii) participatory
approach. For more detailed presentation of the components, sub-components and
activities see Annex 2.




                                           12
(i) Management of biodiversity

43. Five management plans have been prepared for the Kneiss, Jerkennah, El Bibane
Boughrara and Gabes Oasis. A sixth management plan was also prepared for the marine seagrass
pilot site (South-East of Kerkennah). This included an important and comprehensive
baseline inventory and mapping of most of the Posidonia seagrass areas and marine plant
cover in the Gulf of Gabes. Main recommendations of these plans, most of them being
replicable to other parts of Tunisia, are presented in the Table below.

Table: Major recommendations from the biodiversity management plans
LOCATION                                        MAJOR RECOMMENDATIONS
Kerkennah   Ensuring equitable and managed urban development
Islands     Improving infrastructures
            Managing water resources in a sustainable manner
            Exploiting mining resources in a sustainable manner
            Revitalizing and normalizing the fishing industry
            Reorganizing and developing the agriculture sector
            Diversifying touristic options
            Ensuring ecosystems services
            Develop cultural heritage and landscape
Kneiss      Protecting terrestrial fauna and flora
Islands     Defining the conditions for a rational use of natural resources
            Enhancing social and economic development
Boughrara   Managing halieutic resources in a sustainable manner
            Protecting lagoon and marine ecosystems
            Protecting coastal ecosystems
            Fostering local development and ecotourism
            Promoting participation of local population to natural resource management
Elbibane    Supporting sustainable management of the fishing industry
            Protecting lagoon and marine ecosystems
            Promoting participation of local population to natural resource management
            Managing pressure of urban areas
Gabes       Protecting natural heritage (droughts, soil degradation, water and soil salinization, hydric and eolian
            erosion)
            Rationalizing human activities (against overexploitation of biologic resources, chaotic land clearing,
            pollutions)
            Improving legal frameworks for environmental protection
            Improving institutional organization and knowledge base


44. The outcomes of these pilots are now incorporated into a national level longer-term
biodiversity conservation strategy with appropriate actions and strategies for
replication. This would concern, for instance, the following elements: (a) definition of
the institutional and legal tools aimed at managing natural resources (including in
protected areas) in an integrated manner; (b) establishment of a system aimed at
monitoring and improving the knowledge on ecologic and socio-economic dynamics; and
(c) development of resource sustainable management systems, through economically
profitable projects aimed at improving local livelihoods. Although only one of the three
pilot plans was implemented under the project (infrastructure could not be created in the
other two sites), the overall management of the pilot sites was improved (as indicated by
the development outcomes measured by the GEF tracking tool).




                                                      13
45. Strategies were also prepared for management of invasive species, sustainable fishing
practices, and management of ballast water. Among the key recommendations of the
studies, the following are particularly important: preventing use of fishing trawlers in
shallow waters, and defining the conditions conducive to the adoption of the concept of
‘biologic recovery’. The major objective of the ballast water management plan produced
by the project is to promote coordinated measures and efforts to control and monitor
introduction of species through ballast and ships’ sediments. Key strategies to achieve
this objective are the following: (a) improving national institutional and legal
frameworks; (b) strengthening national capacities to manage ballast water and controlling
potential introduction of non-native species; (c) collecting relevant and reliable scientific
data for decision making processes; (d) establishing international mechanisms aimed at
improving cooperation and exchange of information; and (e) defining technical
documentation codes of conduct for management et decision-making. Concerning the
introduction of invasive species (considered worldwide as the second source of pollution),
a comprehensive report produced by the project identifies all the exotic species in the
Golf of Gabes, and provides detailed information about the conditions leading to their
introduction and distribution, and their essential eco-biologic characteristics and
abundance. Ultimately, the inventory is likely to be used to consider the invasive and
competitive status of these taxa.

46. Finally, the project developed an integrated approach to sustainable development and
biodiversity conservation through demonstrations at the seagrass site. In this regard,
three scientific monitoring reports on trends (marine fauna and flora, exotic and invasive
species, and posidonia seagrass) were produced.

47. Cumulative scores were complemented by the “Management Effectiveness Tracking
Tool? for the biodiversity management plans. The tracking tools for biodiversity projects
aimed at measuring progress in achieving the impacts and outcomes established at the
portfolio level under the biodiversity focal areas (tracking tools are applied at CEO
endorsement, at project mid-term, and at project completion). The assessment of the
effectiveness of the management of the three sites performed in 2009, 2010 and 2012
showed a marked improvement in management efficiency: in Kneiss, 37 points in 2009,
40 points in 2010 and 49 points in 2012; in the islands of Kerkennah, 20 points in 2009,
34 points in 2010, and 46 points in 2012; and in the Boughrara Lagoon, 16 points in 2009,
32 points in 2010 and 45 points in 2012.

48. The main improvements include, in particular: (i) Research, Knowledge and
Management of Natural Resources, the improvement could be attributed to the diagnosis
made in the development of the management plan as part of the project to protect coastal
and marine resources and the consultation process, training and capacity building
undertaken during the development of the plan; (ii) Development of the Legislative
Context: this has been driven by the adoption of the Law on Marine and Coastal
Protected Areas in 2009. The Kneiss site was selected as a potential candidate for a
future classification; (iii) Physical and Delimitation: A clear focus has been agreed
during the consultation process for expanding the protected area to include, for instance,


                                             14
salt marshes and mudflats that are part of the Kneiss ecosystem; and (iv) Management
and Planning.

49. A strategy for sustainable eco-tourism, fishery concession, and a model for
participatory preparation and management of bio-diversity have been prepared. The
strategy, including plans for replication of biodiversity management plans, was based on
the results of four different reports prepared on water quality in Djerba; the inventory of
native and alien marine fish; and a strategy for ballast water management. The strategy
includes nine strategic axes and a total of 23 objectives (each axis comprising between
one and six objectives). Strategic axes were the following: restoring degraded
ecosystems; ensuring sustainable and equitable use of natural resources; protecting
unaltered ecosystems; establishing a clear environmental regulatory framework; ensuring
consistency among governmental programs, economic development and biodiversity
protection: knowledge development, management and sharing; education and social
mobilization; improved governance; and synergy among the three United Nations’
Conventions.

50. An integrated approach to sustainable development and bio-diversity conservation
was demonstrated based on the selected sea-grass site. Prior to the preparation of
biodiversity management plans, an initial concept note had been prepared to address
underlying institutional and legal concepts and issues. A feasibility study of a
management plan for Posidonia area was prepared (in spite of very slow and laborious
procurement procedures). Although the planned construction of anti-trawling structures
was eventually dropped (as procurement conditions had not been met), the study was
highly relevant and useful and its results are now available to the government for
implementation.

51. Key recommendations concerned the scaling-up, replicability and utilization of the
findings and conclusions of the studies and analyses are as follows. Particularly important
are the following elements: support to adequate social mobilization initiatives aimed at
improving local awareness on environmental issues; use of adequate technologies and
practices (such as those related to the protection of Posidonia sea grasses); development
and adoption of the concept of ‘biologic recovery’; and institrutional measures aimed at
prohibiting fishing trawlers in shallow waters).

52. Furthermore biodiversity management was improved by the achievement of a range
of unintended results
 Support to the would-be potential inscription of the oasis of Gabes onto the UNESCO
    World heritage list (the site has already been included in a tentative list and was
    visited by UNESCO resource persons).
 Support to the inscription of Akarit humid areas on the list of the ‘Ramsar protected
    areas’.
 Support to the categorization of some of the project pilot sites as protected areas
    within the context of the implementation of a law concerning marine and coastal
    zones (2009).

                                            15
      Support to initiatives aimed at obtaining financial resources for the creation of a
       management unit in charge of the North-Eastern part of the Kerkennah Islands (in the
       context of a project supported by Italian cooperation).

       (ii) Establish a functional integrated monitoring system (Substantial)

53. The project had an actual impact on monitoring biodiversity. Under the responsibility
of the INSTM, key outputs were achieved, such as: (i) identification of baseline key
indicators for marine fish species and habitats; (ii) identification of baseline key water
quality indicators; and (iii) submission of three scientific monitoring reports on trends
(marine fauna and flora, exotic and invasive species, and posidonia seagrass). A major
report on hydrodynamic and water quality studies for the Gulf of Gabes was not
completed due to a legal dispute with external contractors).

54. More particularly, three inventory/monitoring systems were carried out to determine
the trends and their implications for bio-diversity: of lagoon and marine species, of alien
species, and of the distribution of these species within the Gulf of Gabes.

55. A key aspect of the monitoring system was the creation of a GIS and Information
Exchange Center, to serve as a database of project information (scientific information,
technical information, socio-economic information) for the Information Exchange Center
with user-friendly access, which was integrated with relevant information from other
Tunisian ministries. Important actions have been taken relating to the establishment of the
GIS and the creation of some sort of a web-based browser system. The system integrates
project generated technical, bio-diversity and socioeconomic data, and other existing non-
project data for easy access; Creation of two Web portals containing project-related data
bases, namely: (i) a Web site (located at the Ministry of Environment) 3 with interactive
information and general data on the area and detailed information on activities, studies,
assessments and management plans prepared within the context of the project; and (ii) a
GIS Web (hosted by APAL), with scientific data and maps. 4 All these documents are
publicly available to students, researchers, and specialized NGOs and institutions,
through the project website. Also, the INSTM is (i) preparing international scientific
publications to disseminate widely the results of these studies, and (ii) using these data as
inputs in its own research projects.

       (iv) Establish a participatory approach to biodiversity management (Modest)

56. The project defined and developed a participatory approach to biodiversity
management through: (a) the achievements of the GIS (see above); and (b) different
aspects of the bio-diversity monitoring work (including identification of indicators,
generation of baselines, and collection and interpretation of data following the creation of
the baselines on two three specific areas - invasive species and marine flora/fauna, and
water quality).


3
    www.golfegabes.com
4
    http://www.apal.nat.tn
                                              16
57. Different capacity building initiatives, which were implemented at various levels
(training and public awareness campaigns on environmental issues through the services
of local NGOs), highly improved local stakeholders’ understanding of major threats to
local biodiversity and emphasized key community-based initiatives (participatory
preparation of five site-based biodiversity management plans).

58. Five committees have been formed and were operational in each of the pilot sites.
The creation of and support to these Committees was supposed to ensure incorporation of
participatory principles into biodiversity management and to avoid the risks of top-down
approaches, by favoring and enhancing a participatory approach to ecosystem
management (whereby local communities were supposed to appoint their representatives).

3.3 Efficiency

59. It is important here to acknowledge that, because of the the nature of the project
(mainly technical assistance for studies, evaluations and management plans) and the
intangibility of its activities traditional measures of efficiency (as applicable and
practical) are not relevant.

60. The economic efficiency of the PDO is based on the following elements:
 General costs involved in achieving project objectives (preparedness) were reasonable
    in comparison with both benefits and recognized norms (“value for money?). For
    example, the financial cost of the scientific studies (first time that such detailed
    scientific studies have been carried out in Tunisia) is very low compared to the
    economic value of the generated databases and knowledge generated. Similarly, the
    methodology used to develop biodiversity management plans has been refined during
    the project implementation period in order to develop relevant plans with lower costs
    than those prevailing at the start of project.
 Practices, technologies and techniques, which have been identified and are expected
    to improve biodiversity conservation, are cost-effective (e.g. artificial reefs), mainly
    because they are based on both national scientific knowledge and traditional know-
    how.
 Cost-effective scientific principles introduced by the project have already been and
    are likely to be still further integrated into key national strategies.
 The project opted for a cost-effective institutional scenario by empowering the
    DGEQV for overall coordination, without creating a new (and costly) institutional
    entity.
 The project was also cost-effective because of its selectivity in targeting specific
    geographic areas where relatively high levels of biodiversity could be maintained,
    adopting site-specific protection measures, focusing on already existing environmental
    protection infrastructure, on major areas where posidonia sea grass had declined over
    decades, ; and putting major efforts into the preparation of management plans for a
    limited number of pilot sites.

61. Other indirect non-quantified and non-quantifiable economic benefits of the project
can also be identified:

                                            17
   Economic outcomes of local user groups well sensitized on environmental issues (for
    a more sustainable use of ecosystems)
   Positive economic outcomes deriving from improved efficiency and effectiveness of
    public services (participating departments and agencies) through capacity building
    activities.
   Positive social externalities, such as: participation of grassroots organizations
    (eventually leading to the improvement of their fishing and agricultural practices);
    and (ii) capacity building of ministerial departments’ officials.
   Positive environmental externalities, such as inventories of species, mapping of
    sensitive sea grasses, inventories of birds, and the like.
62. Finally, in terms of efficiency, the project would have been more robust if: (i) timely
social mobilization and sensitization measures had been put in place at earlier stages; and
(ii) capacity building on procurement procedures had been enhanced and maintained.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

63. Overall, the project is rated moderately satisfactory for the following reasons:: (i) the
project was relevant (objectives were fully consistent with the country‘s development
priorities, the design was appropriate and key outputs were delivered), although the
implementation suffered from some delays; (ii) the project was effective (objectives were
substantially achieved both in terms of biodiversity management and integrated
monitoring), however, there were some shortcomings in terms of the adoption of truly
participatory approaches and (iii) the project was efficient in terms of the general cost-
effectiveness of its focus on specific potentially sensitive coastal and marine areas.

64. it is worthwhile to indicate that (a) the additional time required was due to extraneous
factors; (b) even with the delay, almost all of the outputs were delivered well within the
overall project cost as anticipated at appraisal; and (c) given the nature of the project
outputs (knowledge generation and development of replicable models, among other
things), there was no impact in terms of delayed monetary or financial benefits emanating
from the project.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

65. The project has conducted socio-economic surveys of targeted populations and other
stakeholder groups, prepared participatory methodologies, and set up local development
committees (LDCs) to ensure incorporation of participatory principles into biodiversity
management.

66. More indirectly, it can be pointed out that the project had an impact on poverty
reduction, mainly because Gabes’s marine and coastal ecosystems provide a livelihood to
a large population of the three Governorates of Gabes, Sfax and Mednine - estimated at
about 1.7 million people (16% of total national population), of which about 0.5 million
economically active people. The project did not include a specific ‘gender’ approach,


                                             18
although various sensitization and social mobilization initiatives targeted women and
women’s groups.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

67. The operation had intended and positive effects and impacts on institutional
development, particularly longer-term capacities of some institutions at national level.

68. The processes of identifying, planning, implementing and monitoring the various
activities of the project helped revitalize technical line departments, strengthening their
relationships with other sectors. They also contributed to fostering the implication of user
groups of coastal and marine ecosystems. Overall activities of Component 2 were aimed
at building the capacities of key institutional stakeholders. Moreover, it should be pointed
out that:
 In terms of quality control and evaluation for project activities, the project provided a
    focused technical assistance to DGEQV to formulate long-term strategy to protect
    biodiversity, and therefore acquire an expertise in that area.
 INSTM was exposed to international expertise by being involved in baseline marine
    inventories and applied monitoring.
 The project aimed at expanding the scope of the traditional land-use plans for
    sensitive coastal areas implemented by the APAL.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

69. The project contributed to achieve unintended positive outcomes, i.e., outcomes that,
while causally linked to its interventions, allowed for additional achievements (see above
on the achievement of unintended results in biodiversity management).
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome. Rating: Substantial

70. At present, some risks might hinder the project’s outcomes from being maintained. In
the current situation of political transition and institutional volatility prevailing in Tunisia,
no adequate arrangements are in place to help avoid or at least mitigate negative impacts
linked to the closing of the project (although interesting discussions were held, in this
regard, during the ICR preparation). Indirectly, a range of measures would be needed in
order to provide benefits in the short, medium and longer term, and mitigate
corresponding risks:
 Government commitment and support to the general objective of the project: The risk
    is Substantial in the current situation of political transition. Through an adequate local
    level institutional set up, functions and mandates played so far by the POU (advocacy,
    social mobilization of local stakeholders) will have to be maintained and ensured.
 Local technical agencies’ involvement in biodiversity protection: The risk is
    Substantial. The project contributed to greatly enhancing awareness of biodiversity-
    related issues at the level of national institutions and improving the knowledge base.
    However, each implementing agency was and is still operating in isolation, with
    minimal interaction. Because of the integrated nature of eco-systemic issues, new
    forms of collaboration and synergy will have to be defined and put in place.

                                              19
   Local stakeholder ownership and importance given to biodiversity-related issues at
    local level: The risk is Moderate. Awareness of environmental issues and of
    necessary related technologies and practices (such as those related to the protection of
    Posidonia sea grasses, the concept of ‘biologic recovery’, the interdiction of fishing
    trawlers in shallow waters, and the like) is generally high as a result of social
    mobilization initiatives supported by the project.

71. Main mid-term and longer-term challenges are the following:
 Keep the momentum, by maintaining key human and financial investments to ensure
    adequate application of identified strategies, use of guidelines, and implementation of
    management plans.
 Define adequate and comprehensive legal frameworks supporting the implementation
    of individual management plans.
 Allow researchers and development practitioners to participate in international and
    sub-regional networks (research and development) to share knowledge on scientific
    issues and best development practices for biodiversity management and sustainable
    development.
 Define concrete ways of using guidelines and monitoring systems in similar
    ecosystems in Tunisia (and elsewhere in the sub-region).

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank. Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


72. The rating concerns the extent to which services provided by the Bank (i) ensured
quality at entry of the operation, and (ii) supported effective implementation through
appropriate supervision toward the achievement of development outcomes.

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry Rating: Moderately satisfactory


73. Services provided by the Bank ensured sound quality at the entry of the operation.
The project was designed according to a number of correct strategic choices, taking a
pragmatic approach integrating technical choices within existing institutional settings. In
spite of some shortcomings, mainly in terms of institutional arrangements, project design
was overall sound. The Bank identified and facilitated the preparation and the appraisal
of the operation in order to favor and facilitate the achievement of planned development
outcomes in a way that was consistent with the Bank’s fiduciary role.




                                            20
(b) Quality of Supervision Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


74. The Bank proactively identified and resolved threats to the achievement of relevant
development outcomes and the Bank’s fiduciary role. ISRs and supervision missions
were conducted and organized regularly. 5

75. Effective implementation of activities was supported by bi-annual supervision
missions, which produced detailed aide memoirs. Implementation support was provided
through regular and efficiently managed audio and video-conferences (in order to
regularly assess progress and identify bottlenecks). Audio/video conferences were
organized when political and social unrest did not allow regular supervision missions.
One weakness is linked to the fact that, between 2004 and 2012, four successive TTLs
have been involved in project supervision, with different focus and sensitivities (some,
for instance, stressing the need of a strict adherence to the institutional arrangements as
initially planned in the PAD and others favoring greater flexibility). Finally, concrete
implementation-related issues (for instance, the complexity of the institutional
arrangements) could have been addressed by a timely project restructuring.

(d) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance Rating: Moderately
    Satisfactory


76. The Bank’s performance is considered moderately satisfactory. At earlier stages,
some adjustments could have been made in order to adapt some procedural regulations
and no-objection procedures to the characteristics of the project, to stress some capacity
building needs, and to clarify/modify institutional arrangements to provide overall
strategic coordination of the project.

5.2 Borrower: Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

(a) Government performance: Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

77. Overall the Government ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and
complied with covenants and agreements toward the achievement of development
outcomes. However, the steering committee was not operational, and this did not
facilitate key decisions, which could have had positive impact on project implementation.




5
    It should be pointed out here that QAG had reviewed QoS and rated it has ‘Moderately satisfactory’.


                                                           21
(b) Implementing Agencies Performance. Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

78. The project was implemented by four agencies, each of them with different
implementing capacities:
 For DGEQV and CITET, respectively in charge of the implementation of Component
    1 and Component 2, the rating is Satisfactory, because major activities were achieved
    with only minor problems.
 For INSTM, in charge of activities (studies, assessments, and inventories) of
    Component 3, the rating is Moderately Satisfactory, due to the fact that some
    activities were not fully completed, mainly because of procurement-related issues.
 For APAL, the rating is Moderately Satisfactory, because several activities were not
    achieved due to procurement issues.

(e) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance: Rating: Moderately
    Satisfactory

79. Overall the Government ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and
complied with covenants and agreements toward the achievement of development
outcomes. However, the steering committee was not operational, and this has not
facilitated key decisions, which could have had positive impact on project
implementation. Therefore, the proposed general rating of the Borrower is Moderately
Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

80. A number of positive and negative lessons can be drawn from the project experience
(these lessons have general applicability for similar operations in the subsector). General
key lessons learned are the following:
 Involvement of the community is essential to ensure that ownership and commitment
    to development efforts is maintained and that biodiversity management plans respond
    to real needs. The inclusion is necessary to focus efforts more on people who need to
    benefit most, and to strengthen the quality of outcomes. This process can be
    supported by social baseline studies (critical analysis of local livelihoods and
    identification of local perceptions and priorities) as well as the creation of appropriate
    entities (such as Local Development Committees). Interaction and linkages among
    planners and stakeholders are also important in fostering camaraderie, which in turn
    fosters better stakeholder collaboration.
 A complex and rigid implementing arrangement does not provide the flexibility
    critical for testing of new models, quick results and maintaining political and
    operational independence for piloting innovative approaches.
 More efficient procurement organization and procedures might avoid some serious
    delays in project implementation. Frequent training in the Bank’s procurement
    procedures during implementation is necessary to avoid delays in procurement
    aspects.
 Adequate project staff, with precise ToR and appropriate experience should have
    adequate knowledge of all the elements of the Grant Agreement and PAD, as well as

                                             22
    of Bank procedures (particularly procurement procedures) and baseline data should
    be collected prior to the startup of the activities.
   Implementation and supervision performances could be greatly impacted by the
    instability of TTLs. As presented in the ICR, the frequent change of key staff and
    mainly the project managers has prevented the project from being smoothly
    implemented and has even contributed to undermining the impact of the previous
    TTLs' efforts. For effective project implementation, it is critical to have continuity in
    leadership in order to sustain the pace of implementation overtime as well as provide
    continuous direction and encouragement to staff to work toward achieving project
    outcomes.
   An effective steering committee could greatly facilitate key decisions and positively
    impact on project implementation.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies / Partners


81. Representatives of the Recipient and implementing agencies have analyzed a
preliminary short version of the present ICR. Overall they accepted its key elements,
including proposed rating, main conclusions and recommendations, although some
elements were marginally disputed. They have also proposed some corrections and
clarifications (some of them have been integrated into this revised version of the
document). Annex 7 synthesizes key elements of the national ICR.




                                             23
ANNEXES




  24
                              Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


(a)      Project Cost by Category (in US $ million equivalent)

         Gulf of Gabes marine and coastal resources protection project - P069460
Component                                          Appraisal     Actual    Percentage Payments Percentage
                                                   Estimate    US$ million     of        at        of
                                                  US$ millions 31/12/2012 Appraisal 03/04/2013 Appraisal
Component 1: Institutional strengthening,                   3.94          4.32   110%        4.61          117%
strategy and dissemination
Component 2 : Training and capacity building                1.35          0.70   52%         0.84          62%
Component 3: Baseline marine data                           1.20          0.89   74%         0.89          74%
acquisition and applied biodiversity monitoring
Component 4: Participatory biodiversity                     3.32          1.84   55%         1.97          59%
management plans
Unallocated
 Total                                                      9.81          7.75   79%         8.31          85%
                           Total project costs              9.81          7.75   79%         8.31          85%
Project Preparation Fund
Front-end fee IBRD
                     Total financing required               9.81          7.75   79%         8.31          85%



(b) Financing

Gulf of Gabes marine and coastal resources protection project - P069460

Source of Funds         Type of      Appraisal             Actual      Percentage Payments at Percentage
                       Financing     Estimate             Estimate         of      03/04/2013 of Appraisal
                                   (US $ millions)       31/12/2012    Appraisal
                                                       (US $ millions)
Borrower                                        3.50               3.80   109%       3.84           110%
GEF TF                Grant                     6.31               3.95   63%        4.47           71%
Total                                           9.81               7.76   79%        8.31           85%




                                                       25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
       Output by Component                   Baseline      Projected        Results at Project           Rate of
                                                            Target        Completion (31/12/2012)      Achievement
                                                  Outcome indicators
1. A system for integrated and                  0        5 plans          5 plans prepared.               100%
sustainable management of                                prepared.        3 plans
biodiversity resources established by                    3 plans          implemented.
2010                                                     implemented.     Completion of
                                                         Completion of    biodiversity
                                                         long-term        strategy.
                                                         biodiversity     Adequate resources
                                                         strategy.        allocated in 12th National
                                                         Allocation of    Plan.
                                                         resources
                                                         in 12th Nat.
                                                         Plan.

2. A system for timely and reliable             0        Scientifc      Atlas                             150%
monitoring of biodiversity resources                     reports on key 4 Reports
established by 2010                                      Indicators     Unplanned GIS Web
                                                         4 reports
                                           Intermediate outcome indicators
                  Component 1: Institutional strengthening, strategic planning and dissemination
An efficient project                            2                12                   14                  116%
management structure is
operational at local and regional
levels (PMU & POU staff)
Fiduciary reports submitted -                   0               10                    15                  150%
updated procurement (annual) and                           (2 per year)   (due to project extension)
financial project audit (annual)
A strategy to strengthen                        0                1                    1                   100%
institutional framework to effectively
manage marine and coastal
biodiversity resources in the Gulf of
Gabes in the long-term
                                      Component 2: Training and capacity building
Number of training sessions                     0          33 sessions          40 sessions               121%
carried out and number of attendees             0         250 attendees        1413 attendees             565%
Number of local development                     0                5                    5                   100%
committees put in place
                Component 3: Baseline marine data acquisition and applied biodiversity monitoring
Reports on water quality Djerba;                0                5                    4                   80%
Inventory of native and alien marine
fish; and strategy for ballast
water management
Impacts of fishing on biodiversity              0                1                    1                   100%
and a manual of good practice for
fishing prepared
 Component 4: Participatory biodiversity management plans to prepare sustainable biodiversity management plans
Preparation of 5 biodiversity                   0              5 sites                5                   100%
management plans
Works to protect marine                         0                1                    0                    0%

                                                          26
biodiversity completed in the
experimental site (South of Kerkennah)
Mapping of Posidonia seagrass            0          1                1               100%
Number of biodiversity management        0          3                1                33%
plans implemented
Works to protect marine                  0          1                0                0%
biodiversity completed in the site       0
Annual report on local development       0          5                5               100%
committees activities
Cumulative scores (“Management           0          3                3               100%
Effectiveness Tracking Tool? for the
biodiversity management plans



The achievements under the four technical components of the project are as follows:

Component 1 (Institutional strengthening, strategic planning and dissemination) was
Satisfactory in supporting the PDO. Under the direct responsibility of the DGEQV, key
objectives of putting in place PMU and POU staff, submitting fiduciary reports and
formulating a long-term strategy for sustainability were achieved.

          At central level, a Project Management Unit (PMU) ensured supervision and
           coordination of activities, supported the creation of the project steering committee
           (made up of representatives of numerous ministerial departments and other
           national institutions more or less involved in project implementation), and created
           a central committee to monitor project activities (Comité de suivi de la convention
           de partenariat), made up of representatives of the four implementing agencies.
           The monitoring committee seems to have worked in a quite satisfactory manner
           (through focused monthly meetings). On the contrary, more problematic was the
           functioning of the Steering committee.
          At regional level, a 4-person Project Operational Unit (POU), located in Gabes
           provided the technical capacity to supervise implementation of all project
           activities and ensure participation of local stakeholders in preparing management
           plans. Between PMU and POU, the units included 6 people at PMU level, 2 at
           DGEQV, 1 at CITET, 1 at INSTM, and 2 at APAL. A total of 15 fiduciary reports
           were prepared and submitted. Moreover, the PMU assumed the responsibility of
           preparing a strategy to strengthen the institutional framework to effectively
           manage marine and coastal biodiversity resources. The PMU achieved a number
           of additional, unplanned activities: (i) study on the impact of pollution on
           biodiversity; (ii) social and environmental assessment of the project; and (iii)
           preparation and publication of a general synthesis of the project (approach and
           results), and creation of a Web site aimed at sharing approaches, methodologies,
           reports and studies with a large audience. 6


6
    www.golfegabes.com




                                               27
Component 2 (Training and capacity building) was Satisfactory in supporting the PDO.
Under the responsibility of the CITET, key outputs have been achieved, such as: (i)
carrying out training sessions and (ii) preparing semi-annual reports. The project held 40
training and capacity building session aimed to strengthen human resources for project
management, technical, scientific and public participation skills to improve management
for biodiversity. Over 1500 people attended these training sessions. Moreover, in order to
facilitate the participation of local stakeholders, 5 local development committees were put
in place in different participating sites. The training program were achieved with
inclusion of new themes; sensitization tools were prepared and disseminated (including
posters, brochures, and interactive CDs); scholarships were provided to students whose
dissertation topics were closely related to biodiversity issues; and a study tour was
organized to Italy (within the context of the Mediterranean initiative of integrated
management of coastal areas). A comprehensive sensitization program was defined and
implemented (including awareness-raising on environmental issues through the services
of local NGOs). Specific activities addressed legal dimensions of biodiversity protection
(including publication of a corpus of existing legal regulations and organization of
training sessions and national workshop). Socio-economic studies were carried out at the
beginning (baseline study) and at the end of the project (centered on local perceptions).

Component 3 (Baseline marine data acquisition and applied biodiversity monitoring) was
Moderately satisfactory in supporting the PDO (it could have been rated ‘Satisfactory’
with better financial management capacities. Under the responsibility of the INSTM, key
outputs were achieved, such as: (i) identification of baseline key indicators for marine
fish species and habitats; (ii) identification of baseline key water quality indicators; and
(iii) submission of scientific monitoring reports on trends (in spite of some shortcomings
related to the non-completion of a major report on hydrodynamic and water quality
studies for the Gulf of Gabes due to a legal dispute with external contractors). More
particularly, an inventory/monitoring of lagoon and marine species with regional and
international significance was prepared as well as an inventory/monitoring of alien
species and their distribution within the Gulf of Gabes. An important element was the use
by INSTM of peer-reviewers for all the studies and assessments in order to improve their
scientific quality. The responsibility for a study planned to identify biodiversity impacts
caused by the fishing flee was eventually transferred to the DGEQV.

Component 4: (Participatory biodiversity management plans). The rating is Moderately
satisfactory, because of the number and quality of initiatives undertaken and studies and
management plans prepared under the responsibility of APAL (rating could have been
higher if disbursement rates had been higher and general administrative capacities had
been improved). Key outputs were achieved, namely by: (i) completing six management
plans; (ii) creating local development committees in pilot sites; (iii) identifying
significant Posidonia oceanica (seagrass) areas (mapping); and (iv) assessing progress in
achieving management effectiveness for marine-protected areas. Prior to the preparation
of biodiversity management plans, an initial concept note had been prepared to address
underlying institutional and legal concepts and issues. A feasibility study of a
management plan for Posidonia area was prepared (in spite of very slow and laborious
procurement procedures), although the planned construction of anti-trawling structures
was eventually abandoned (as procurement conditions had not been met). An important
                                            28
and comprehensive baseline inventory and mapping of most of the Posidonia seagrass
areas and marine plant cover in the Gulf of Gabes was prepared (through a ‘forward
contract’ or “contrat gré-à-gré? with INSTM, which also ensured adequate monitoring
by using its own resources). Management plans were prepared for the Gulf of Boughrara,
the Kneiss Island, the Lagoon (Bahiret) El Bibane and the Kerkennah Islands, as well as a
management plan for the Gabes Oasis. Finally, a GIS and Information Exchange Center
was established.




                                           29
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

General introduction
By combining technical assistance, policy actions and some minor site-specific
investments, the project was economically profitable and cost-effective overall. It used
least-cost sustainable means with the aim of maximizing its intended environmental
benefits.

About the difficulty of an economic analysis
A precise economic analysis of the project is made difficult by the nature of the expected
outcomes of its activities. Studies, assessments and management plans have intangible
benefits and catalytic influences, which cannot be meaningfully quantified and related to a
dollar amount.

About the non-feasibility of a quantitative cost-effectiveness assessment
Moreover, for this kind of biodiversity-related project, a quantitative cost-effectiveness
assessment is simply not feasible. The majority of its activities do not generate short- or
medium-term measurable outcomes that could be directly linked to the financial inputs. What
the project intended to promote was less the achievement of quick measurable results, than
long-term sustainability, institutional building, and policy changes.

About the appropriateness of a qualitative cost-effectiveness analysis
On the contrary, a qualitative cost-effectiveness analysis is more appropriate for this project.
The analysis is mainly made possible by comparing its activities with least-cost alternatives,
which could have generated the same outcomes.

(i) Indirect biodiversity threats
Project activities rightly focused on indirect or broad-based biodiversity threats. This resulted
in a cost-effective approach by: (i) identifying specific geographic areas where relatively high
levels of biodiversity could have been maintained; (ii) adopting site-specific protection
measures; and (iii) focusing on already existing environmental protection infrastructure.
Collection of baseline data, biodiversity monitoring, capacity building, and public awareness
and participation initiatives were the main activities supported by the project. Therefore, the
project was cost-effective, because, for instance, the focus was not on major areas where
Posidonia sea grass have declined over decades; and major efforts were put into the
preparation of management plans for pilot sites, which would eventually be replicated
and expanded to other sites in the Gulf with important global or regional marine and
coastal biodiversity.

(ii) Appropriate institutional setting
The project opted for a cost-effective institutional scenario by empowering the DGEQV
for overall coordination based on its leadership on biodiversity issues and experience
gained from other similar operations. Therefore, the project has not created a new
institutional entity in charge of biodiversity protection in the Gulf of Gabes (between
2005 and 2012, the proper functioning of this entity would have been very costly.
Furthermore, at the end of the project, the Government would have had to find adequate


                                               30
resources to maintain its sustainability. Nor has the project used contractual staff financed
by the project, simply because the option would have been unsustainable.

About economic efficiency
The general economic efficiency of the project is linked to the marine biodiversity losses
that might eventually have been avoided thanks to the scientific data collected and
analyzed by the project, as well as by participatory approaches supported at the level of
local stakeholders. More specific economic efficiency is linked to the focus of project
activities on potentially sensitive coastal and marine areas and related issues of
biodiversity degradation.

Therefore, the efficiency of the PDO is partially demonstrated by the fact that:

          Costs involved in achieving project objectives (preparedness) were reasonable
           in comparison with both benefits and recognized norms (“value for money?).
          Practices, technologies and techniques, which have been identified and are
           expected to improve biodiversity conservation, are cost-effective.
          Cost-effective scientific principles introduced by the project have already been
           and are likely to be still further integrated into key national strategies.

About other indirect and non-quantified economic benefits
Other indirect and non-quantified benefits can be identified by the economic and
financial analysis:
      Economic outcomes of sensitization of local user groups (for a more sustainable
       use of ecosystems)
      Economic externalities linked to improved efficiency and effectiveness of public
       services (participating departments and agencies) through capacity building
       activities.
      Positive social externalities, such as: participation of grassroots organizations
       (eventually leading to the improvement of their fishing and agricultural
       practices) ; and (ii) capacity building of ministerial departments’ officials.
      Positive environmental externalities, such as inventories of species, mapping of
       sensitive sea grasses, inventories of birds, and the like.


About GEF incremental scenario
The project, designed within the context of the 10th Plan in the Sector for coastal zone
and marine protection, acted as a catalyst for all levels of decision-makers to invest in
additional incremental activities for biodiversity protection. The GEF scenario mainly
involved collection and analysis of scientific data (studies, assessments, and inventories),
and specific training and awareness activities aimed at improving the conservation and
sustainable use of biodiversity. Use of GEF incremental resources demonstrated that the
management of biodiversity can be based both on scientific knowledge and on local
stakeholders’ participation, can be sustainable, and can contribute to long-term revenues
for the communities concerned.



                                             31
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                               Responsibility/
          Names                                 Title                 Unit
                                                                                 Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
                                                                    MNSRE
Anders A. Alm                           Sr Environmental Spec.
                                                                      - HIS
Sherif Kamel F. Arif                        Consultant              GEFVP
Siaka Bakayoko                            Country Manager           AFTMW
Slaheddine Ben-Halima                       Consultant              MNAPC
Antonio J. Cittati                          Consultant               LCSPP
Lelia Croitoru                              Consultant               SASDI
Concepcion Esperanza Del
                                             Consultant             MNSWA
Castillo
Walid Dhouibi                         Procurement Specialist    MNAPC
Tiguist Fisseha                  Disaster Risk Management Speci LCSDU
Jaafar Sadok Friaa                    Lead Urban Specialist     MNSUR
Marie A. F. How Yew Kin            Language Program Assistant   MNSSD
Georges Raphael Khoury-
                                             Consultant              EASIS
Haddad
Dahlia Lotayef                        Program Coordinator       AFTN2
Moez Makhlouf                               Consultant          MNAFM
Carole Megevand                  Sr Natural Resources Mgmt. Spe AFTN1
Kanta K. Rigaud                    Lead Environment Specialist   CPF
Cheikh A. T. Sagna               Senior Social Development Spec AFTCS
Maria Sarraf                     Senior Environmental Economist SASDC


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including
                                             No. of staff weeks
                                                                    travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                                                          25.93
  FY01                                                                          46.11
  FY02                                                                          34.55
  FY03                                                                          57.10
  FY04                                                                         122.28
  FY05                                                                          51.28
  FY06                                                                           0.00
  FY07                                                                           0.00
  FY08                                                                           0.00
                               Total:                                          337.25

                                                 32
Supervision/ICR
  FY00                            0.00
  FY01                            0.00
  FY02                            0.00
  FY03                            0.00
  FY04                            0.00
  FY05                            7.03
  FY06                           92.23
  FY07                           44.69
  FY08                           36.04
                  Total:        179.99




                           33
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


Not applicable




                                      34
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Within the context of the preparation of the national evaluation of the project as well as
the ICR, three major events were successively organized:

a) Stakeholder workshop at the end of the project (December 2012)
The project organized a workshop in December 2012 in Jerba, with the participation of
representatives of the five local development committees involved in biodiversity
conservation at local and regional levels, together with project national and regional staff,
local and regional authorities, as well as representatives of research institutions and of
key NGOs operating in the region in the areas of biodiversity and community
development (a total of 30 persons).

Major topics discussed by the participants were the following:
      Key strategic axes and results of the study supporting the biodiversity strategy
      Major aspects of impacts of fishing activities on biodiversity and related
       corrective measures
      Sustainability of activities initiated by the project, in terms of : (i) communication;
       (ii) planning; (iii) institutional arrangements (to strengthen cooperation between
       regional entity(ies) and local development committees

b) First ICR mission (February 2013)
Led by the TTL, the first ICR was carried out between 18-23 February 2013 (about 7
weeks after the official closing of the project). The mission included external
international and national consultants. Individual meetings were organized with
representatives of the four implementing agencies (DGEQV, INSTM, APAL and CITET)
and, at the beginning and the end of the mission, two plenary sessions, attended by 15-20
persons, including the Gabes-based members of the POU. During these workshops, all
the activities of the project were presented and analyzed. An aide-memoir presented main
results of the ICR mission and identified key aspects strengths and weaknesses of the
project. The general structure of the forthcoming ICR was also presented.

c) Second ICR mission (April 2013)
Led by the TTL, a second ICR preparation mission was organized from 3 to 5 April 2013.
The mission included the same external international and national consultants. Under the
chair of the General Secretary of the DGEQV, about ten participants attended a two-day
workshop centered on the following elements:

          Presentation of the National ICR and related discussions
          Presentation of key results, lessons learned, challenges and recommendations
           of the ICR
          Discussion about potential ‘ways forward’ (through individual presentations
           by the four agencies involved in the implementation of the project).




                                             35
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR

       Synthesis of the National Implementation Completion Report (NICR)

   1. OBJECTIVES
From a methodological point of view, the preparation of the NICR involved the following
aspects:

      Analysis of key documentation, namely the Grant Agreement, the Manual of
       procedures, and the social and environmental safeguard guidelines.
      Analysis of different project activities reports
      Results of meetings and discussion with key persons of participating institutions :
       Direction Générale de l’Environnement et de la Qualité de la Vie (DGEQV),
       Centre International des Technologies de l’Environnement de Tunis (CITET),
       Institut National des Sciences et des Technologies de la Mer (INSTM) and
       Agence d’Aménagement et de Protection du Littoral (APAL).

    2. MAIN CONCLUSIONS
a/ Project outcomes :
The development objective of the Project is to establish a functional integrated
monitoring and participatory management system for the project area to manage
biodiversity degradation in the Gulf of Gabes region.

While it has not allowed the effective establishment of a permanent institutional
mechanisms in charge of managing biodiversity in the Golf of Gabes, the project
efficiently addressed key elements aimed at improving an integrated management of
biodiversity, namely in the following domains:

      A.1. Improving the knowledge basis on biodiversity : Analysis of underlying
       causes of pressure on and degradation of biodiversity and formulation of plans
       and strategies allowing efficient short- medium- and long-term operations to
       reduce biodiversity losses in the region (preparation of management plans for
       pilot sites, formulation of a strategy for biodiversity conservation in the Golf of
       Gabes). However, in terms of design, detailed planned activities have not allowed
       the creation of an adequate institutional mechanism in charge of managing
       biodiversity in an integrated manner.
      A.2 : Capacity building for all the stakeholders operating in the area of
       biodiversity conservation at national, regional and local levels.
      A.3 : Sensitization of stakeholders concerning biodiversity conservation-related
       challenges and best practices (formulation of sensitization plans, organization of
       workshops and seminars in the region…)
      A.4 : Implementation of a participatory approach aimed at creating the condition
       for local governance and favoring the participation of all local stakeholders in
       biodiversity conservation.




                                           36
b/ Project indicators :

   Most of the project indicators are rather superficial and descriptive objectives related
to project implementation and do not seem to reflect the real impact of the project in
terms of improvement of biodiversity in the Golf of Gabes.

    The evaluation of these indicators is synthesized in the table below:
                                 Baseline            Project target               Results                   Evaluation
Number of staff in place         0                   12                           14                        Objective fully
                                                                                                            achieved
Number of fiduciary reports      0                   10                           14                        Objective fully
submitted                                                                                                   achieved
Number of attendees of           0                   33                           40 (15 training           Objective fully
training sessions                                                                 modules, 1500             achieved
                                                                                  beneficiaries)
Number of local                  0                   5                            5 (in 5 pilot sites)      Objective fully
development committees put                                                                                  achieved
in place
Scientific knowledge of the                          ?
ecosystem is improved
namely through :
     Marine and lagoon                              Inventory of marine and      Study carried out by      Objective fully
    species are introduced                           lagoon species that have     INSTM                     achieved
                                 Scientific          been introduced
     Water quality in the       information is      Monitoring of the            Study non completed       Objective not
    region                       disseminated, not   hydrographic quality and                               achieved
                                 updated             sedimentary
                                                     characteristics in the
                                                     Golf.
     Quality of Posidonia                           Mapping of Posidonia         Maps completed by         Objective fully
    seagrass                                         sea grass areas              INSTM and APAL            achieved

Number of biodiversity           0                   6                            6 (îslands of             Objective fully
management plans                                                                  Kerkennah, Kneiss,        achieved
                                                                                  lagoons of Boughrara
                                                                                  and Bibène, oasis of
                                                                                  Gabes)

Number of implemented            0                   3                            1 (in Kneiss)             Objective
management plans (fully or                                                                                  partially
partially)                                                                                                  achieved
Cumulative scores based on       0                   Monitoring efficient         3 evaluation (carried     Objective fully
the “Management                                      management of pilot sites    out at the beginning,     achieved
Effectiveness Tracking                               (tracking-tools)             mid-term and end of
Tool? for the biodiversity                                                        the project)
management plans,
Long term strategy for the       0                   Study carried out in close   1 (study carried out by   Objective fully
sustainability of biodiversity                       collaboration with key       DGEQV)                    achieved
in the Golf of Gabes                                 stakeholders



c/ Qualitative implementation:

The project was implemented by four national institutions, operating in a quasi-
autonomous manner. Each institution was in charge of all the aspects related to
procurement, management of contracts and monitoring of its own activities.


                                                          37
At DGEQV, the management unit was in charge of project coordination and preparation
of synthesis reports and M&E (financial monitoring, technical reports, organization of
supervision missions, organization of steering committee meetings…)

In Gabes, an operation unit was in charge of implementing sensitization activities as well
as establishing a dialogue with regional stakeholders.

This technical and administrative independence of the four participating institutions only
partially allowed a real integration of the project and an efficient coordination of the
different components.

In a parallel manner, the management structure of the project was based on the existing
functional structure of each institution – administrative hierarchal set up), with the
absence of an operational structure (project entity).

3. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SAFEGUARD MEASURES
a/ Risks management :
The Manual of Procedures identifies two major risks, which could have jeopardized
project implementation, these risks being linked, on one hand, to the capacities of the
PMU at central level and the Gabes-located POU and, on the other hand, the practical
knowledge of procurement procedures.

Proposed measures only partially mitigated these risks. Mainly at the level of INSTM, it
was difficult to manage contracts and procurement. Moreover, as both Bank and national
procurement procedures were followed, the implementation of different activities was
significantly delayed.

b/ Respect of safeguard measures:
The project was mainly a technical assistance operation, with only some field pilot
initiatives (artificial reefs south of Kerkennah Islands, construction of the Laguna house
in Boughrara and small infrastructures in Kneiss islands.)

Classified as category B, the project needed the implementation of an environmental and
social management plan. This plan identified three major mitigation measures: (i)
management plans to prevent environmental impacts; (ii) stakeholders’ participation to
integrate their know-how concerning local threats to biodiversity; and (iii) environmental
monitoring of key indicators concerning Halieutic species, habitat, water quality and
large areas of Posidonia seagrass. These mitigation measures were integrated into project
components and activities.

Furthermore, an ‘Environmental and Social Management Plan’ was elaborated within the
context of activities of Component 1. The plan was a crucial tool for decision-making
during the implementation of the different management plans in pilot sites and project
recommendations.




                                           38
4. FACTORS IMPROVING PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
The project supported the elaboration of important plans and strategies for an integrated
management of the biodiversity of the Golf of Gabes ecosystem and if selected pilot sites
with significant natural potential.

These plans should be implemented on a short, medium and long term.

Consistent effort should aim at:
       Disseminating project documents and reports among all the national, regional
          and local stakeholders. The DGEQV already created a Web site to present to a
          large public audience all the activities and results (all documents can be
          downloaded).

          Putting in place an institutional structure in charge of further monitoring the
           ecosystems of the Golf of Gabes, updating data, coordinating stakeholders for
           the implementation of the management plan and biodiversity conservation
           strategy, and therefore ensuring sustainable management of natural resources
           in the region.




                                           39
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                    40
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


OPCS (2006) Implementation completion and results report, Guidelines

Project Appraisal Document, Gulf of Gabes marine and coastal resources protection
project, February 9, 2005

Reports of Supervision Missions carried out by the World Bank: December 2010, June
2011, and June 2012

Various ‘Implementation Status & Results (ISRs) prepared by the World Bank team

Mid-Term Evaluation Report (8-20 January 2009)

Ministère de l’Environnement et des Ressources Hydrauliques ‘Protection des Ressources
Marines et Côtières du Golf de Gabes (Mai 2004), Plan d’Aménagement
Environnemental

Ministère de l’Environnement et des Ressources Hydrauliques ‘Projet « Protection des
Ressources Marines et Côtières du Golf de Gabes » (Mai 2004) Cadre de procédures
pour la participation des communautés dans la gestion et la conservation des Ressources
marines et côtières du Golf de Gabes

PNUE (2005) ‘Gestion des zones côtières en Tunisie’




                                          41
