RESTRICTED
Report No. PT-Za
Ti repot is for offciaJ uw onb by the Do Group ad Wecfiay authorized ognizations
or person It may not be publised, quotd or cited without lank Group authoiution. Ibe
Bank Group does not acwpt reponbility for the uracy or cumpletnesu af the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCION AND DEVELOPMEN-T
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
THE BERNARDIN TOURISM PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
June 2, 1971
Tourism Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    -  Dinar
US$1.00          -  Dinar 15.00
Dinar 1.00        -  US$0.07
Dinar 1,000,000  -  US$70,000
UNITS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: Metric
Metric: British/US Equivalents
1 m     -  3.28 ft
1 m2    = 10.76 sq ft
1 km    =  0.62 mi
1 km2   -  0.386 sq mi
1 ha    =  2.5 acres
1 m ton =  0.98 is ton
1.1 US sh ton
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  - December 31



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY  .            .........................................i  -  iii
1.     INTRODUCTION  .....................................1
2.      BACKGROUND             ......................             .................
A.  The  Econony  ......1........................
B.  Thl- Tourism  Sector   .......................                                    2
3.   THE PROJECT    .................................                                                 4
A. Background .............,                                                          4
B.  Description  ..............................                                       5
C.  Design  and  Planning  ......................                                     6
D.  Cost  Estimates   ....                     ......................                 6
r.  Execution  ................................                                       9
4.      EXTERNAL  INFRASTRUCTURE   ..........................                                       10
5.    JUSTIFICATION  .......                    .............................                       11
A. Market  Demand   ............................                                    11
B.  Economic  Justification  ...................                                    13
6.     ORGANIZATION  AND  MANAGENENT  ...........                      ..     .........             14
A.  The  Sponsor  -  EMONA  ......................                                  14
L.  Tue  Borrower  .............................                                    15
C.  Organizational  Structure   ....                       .............            15
D.  Management   ...............................                                    16
7.      FINANCE           .......................             ...................                   17
A.  Financing  Plan  ...........................                                    17
1t. Financial Forecast .18
8.      RECOMMENDATIONS  ..................................                                         20
This report is based on the findings of a project appraisal mission
consisting  of  Mr.  l).  T'. ScarisbrJck,  Mr.  J.  C.  Boyd,  Mr.  A.  Odone
and Mr. J. E.  Kulski (Consultant).  The main report was written by
Mr. J. A. Simmons.



Table of Contents
Page 2
Table No.
STATISTICAL APPENDIX
Breakdown of Cost              ..                                        I
Contingency Allowances             ..                                   2
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .                   .               3
Growth of Tourist Traffic to the Slovenian
Coast, 1963-69 ..                                                     4
Summary of the Financial Growth of Prehrana, 1962-69                    5
Summary of the Financial Growth of Agrokombinat,
1962-69. .                                                            6
Annex No.
ANNEXES
Market Analysis .... ........1........... 
Economic Justification .......................                          2
Financial Analysis ............                                         3
Chart No.
CHARTS
Estimated Construction and Disbursement Schedule ......
General Organization ...................................                2
Map No.
MAPS
Coastline of Slovenia    ..
Bernardin Tourism Project Location .                   .                2
Bernardin Tourism Project Land Use .                   .                3



YUGOSLAVIA
APPPAISAL OF ThE BERE'ARDIN TOURISMI PROJECT
SUTA LARY
i.         This report appraises a project to establish a large integrated
tourism, complex on the Bernardin Promontory on Yugoslavia's North Adriatic
coast, between the Slovenian towns of Piran and Portoroz, approximately
25 km from the Italian border.  The complex would provid1e accomodations for
2,500 persons together withi facilities for sports and recreation, restaurants,
shlops and entertaiiiment, which would also serve substantial numbers of excur-
sion visitors.  The proposed project is one of three submitte(i to the Bank- by
the Yugoslav authLor[tics.  The Babin Kuk project at Dubrovnik in the Republic
of Croatia has been appraised and is the subject of a separate report (PT-1).
The third project, Jaz, situated close to the town of 13udva in the Republic
of Montenegro, is at the preparation stage.
ii.        International tourisrti in Yu,,oslavia has developed rapidly in the
past decade, with foreig,n exchange earnidng,s from  tourism  rising from
US. 22.0 iiillioii to UIS$ 310.() million equivalent.  The principal destina-
tions of foreig,n visitors are resorts on the Adriatic coast where about
'0%, of foreign visitor nights are spenL and almost two thirds of all
Lotcl cai,Pacity is located'.  Eost foreign visitors stay at the nortlhern
coastal resorts wb,ici  are within easy reaclh by road' of tlhe large centers
of population of Austria, southern Germany and northern Italy.
iii.       Yu-oslavia's draft Development Plan for 1971-75 sets targets for
tlhe tourism sector inicluding a near doubling of hotel capacity and foreign
exrchan, c earnlings of US1' 900.0 million in 1975.  These targets are ambi-
tious, but Yugoslavia's share of Nediterranean tourism  is still small, and
price, there are stil-l lover than in competing countries, on average by
20-25"'.  Providled this compeLiLive advantagc can be maintained, there is
little ('oultL that with vigorous developmenuut policies Yu,,oslavia can attract
,;ny nmeru ford -n vsisltors than heretoforc.
-i .       Tlh- siU, for th.e proposed project is a small promontorv lyillg be-
tweeit Portoroz and tlle old walled city of Piran.  Besides the scenic beauty
of the coastline. the palaces and churclhes of the old city are tourism as-
sets in themselves anid provide a setting for festivals during the summer
wlhicli hIve been an add.itional attraction for tourists in recent years.
v.         The coastl inc at Portoroz is at present disfigured by obsolete
jetties and warehouses and salt flats, thie reminants of the area's indus-
trial pa;st.  CoPprehllenstve plans, for the redevelopment of thle coast are
bei ng inpl emented.: the ol<( salt comlpany huil lings and jetties will be re-
p1;aced by extettllyehiea dieeS, promena:dc. , ssmall marinas and landscapcd parks.
Vor(over a seweraqge sy!;terl for the whoole area is beling built whiicli will
_reatlv ritduce polltit-ion of Lthe sea.



- ii -
vi.       The project is one of the largest so far developed in Yugoslavia
or abroad. The scale of the project offers considerable potential economies
in construction and operation, but will require the development of new
management systems. Emona, a large trading enterprise in Slovenia and
the sponsor of the project, possesses management resources in, for exam-
ple, the computer and systems analysis fields, which will be made avail-
able for the new project. Emona will, however, utilize qualified consult-
ants to assist in developins. specific systenLs, for example the reservations
system and overall operat.ions control.  The firms engaged and their terns
of reference would be subject to approval by the Bank..
vii.      The project is estimated to cost US$ 24.0 million equivalent,
including contingencies, with a probable foreign exchange requirement of
US$ 6.9 million equivalent. Interest during construction would amo-,ant tc
an additional US$ 1.7 million equivalent. The project would be cornstructed
and operated by a new entity to be established for the purpose. The pro-
posed Bank loan of US$ 10.0 million would cover 38% of the total project
cost and US$ 0.9 million of interest during construction on the Bank loan.
The balance of the required financing would be provided by Emona, as equity
capital (22%) and by Ljubljanska Banka, the largest investment bank in
Slovenia, as a loan to Emona for onward lending to the new entity. Finan-
cial forecasts show that the new entity should be able to meet all project
costs and service its debt satisfactorily.
viii.     While most external infrastructure required for the successful
operation of the project will be adequate, the project will contribute to
greater traffic congestion on the main access road from Italy to the Istrian
Peninsula. The Government of Slovenia is aware of the importance of improv-
ing this road, and assurances have been obtained from the appropriate Yugo-
slav authorities that the necessary investments will be made. The share of
the cost of such investments which can properly be charged to the project is
estimated at about US$ 0.9 million equivalent.
ix.       Contracts for construction and equipment would be awarded after
international competitive bidding. Depending on whether local or foreign
contractors would carry out the project and the extent to which foreign
equipment would be used, tlhe foreign exchange component in the total proj-
ect costs would range from 24% to 36%. On the assumption that Yugoslav
bidders would win construction contracts and that the bulk of equipment
would be imported, the foreign exchange component would be about 29%, or
US$ 6.9 million.
x.        The benefits of the project have been measured by expenditures of
guests staying at the complex, of whom the large majority would be foreign
visitors. At the new official exchange rate of D 15.0 = US$ 1.0, the in-
ternal economic return on the investment would be 9.0%. As approximately
90% of visitor expenditures would represent receipts of foreign exchange,
the rate of return would be sensitive to any change in the foreign exchange
rate. The results of sensitivity testing indicate that the rate of return
would also be sensitive to changes in occupancy levels and a delay in open-
ing. The "best estimate" of the economic rate of return is 13%. These rates



- iii -
of return are only a partial reflection of the overall economic benefits
which the Yugoslav economy is likely to derive from the operation of the
Bernardin project. They do not take account of the sizable additional
benefits likely to be derived from guests' expenditures outside the proj-
ect on goods and services which can be supplied with little, if any, addi-
tional investments. When the proposed project is in full operation, the
direct annual net foreign exchange earnings are estimated at US$ 5.5 mil-
lion, which compares with the estimated foreign exchange component of
US$ 6.9 million.
xi.       The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 10.0 million equiv-
alent for a term of 25 years including a grace period of 5 years. The amount
of the loan is approximately equal to the maximum estimated foreign exchange
component plus interest during construction on the proposed Bank loan. The
borrower would be the new entity, referred to in vii above.






YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF TIE BERNARDIN TOURISM PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Early in 1969 the Governmicnt of Yugoslavia requested assistance
from the Bank in developing tourism along the country's Adriatic coast and
subsequently submitted three large scale tourism projects for detailed con-
s: deration, located between Piran and Portoroz on thie northern Adriatic
coast in Slovenia, at Dubrovnik in Croatia and at Budva on the southern
coast in Montenegro. The project at Dubrovnik is the subject of a separate
report (PT-1), while that at Budva is at the preparation stage.
1.02      The project, situated on the Bernardin promontory between Piran and
Portoroz, is designed to utilize one of the few remaining large sites on the
limited section of the Istrian coast which is within Slovenia.
1.03      The Bernardin project is an integrated tourism complex of 2,500
beds with restaurants, shops, guest services and recreational facilities.
It is among the larger tourism complexes so far developed in Yugoslavia or
abroad.
1.04      A project idenitificationi mission from the Bank visited Yugoslavia
in November 1969. In the course of two project preparation missions during
1970, the project was substantially modified.  The appraisal mission con-
sisting of Messrs. Scarisbrick, Boyd, Odone, and Kulski (Consultant)
completed its field work in November, 1970.
1.05      The loan for the Bernardin project would be the second Bank
loan for tourism in Yugoslavia.
2. BACKCROUND
A. The Economy
2.01      Yugoslavia is a Socialist Federal State, about the size of the
tUnitedI Kingdom and comprising six republics.  Its population of about 20
millioni is growing at the rate of 1Z per annumli.  Tlle gross national product
at currenL market prices was estimated at US.$12.0 billion equivalent in 1969
and per capita iincoTie aIt US $600 equivalenlt.
2.02      In 1905 the Yugoslav Government initiated basic economic reforms
design[ed to de-centralize econiomic manaigeimienit and establish a market orient-
ed economly.  Following a period of adjustment and slow growtlh, real outputl
increased1 more rapidly from the middle of 1968 and grew by 9% in 1969.  In-
creased investmenit, particularly in inldustrial expansion and diversifica-
tion, an(d rising consumption generated shiarp pressures on the balance of
payments.  The expansioni of commodity exports did not keep pace with thie



- 2 -
growth of imports and earnings from "invisibles" became an increasingly
important element in the balance of payments, particularly those from
tourisml which more than doubled during the four years to 1969 to become
second in volume only to renmittances from workers living abroad.
2.03      The prospects for Yugoslavia's further economlc developmient are,
on the whole, favorable. The industriousness of its people, its sizable
natural resources and proximity to European industrial nations provide
the basis for continued expansion. Growth will, however, largely depend
on the increase of earnings of foreign exchange, particularly of convert-
ible currencies. Tourisnm is a sector where Yugoslavia has a comparative
advantage and where the major part of foreign exchange earnings is in con-
vertible currencies.
B. The Tourism Sector
2.04      Yugoslavia, with over 2,000 km of mountainous coastline of great
scenic beauty, warm, dry summers and picturesque old coastal towns and
villages, possesses tourist attractions which compare favorably with any in
the Mediterranean. These attractions together with the country's relative
proximity to the major tourist generating centers of Europe constitute an
important potential for the industry.
2.05      The fast growth of foreign tourism to Yugoslvaia has been mainly
a phenomenon of the past decade. Growing prosperity in Europe and more
liberal entry policies to Yugoslavia brought a rising demand for travel to
the country, while the implementation of certain key investments, particu-
larly the construction of the Adriatic highway (partly financed by Loan 344-
YU of 1963) and the rapid expansion of hotel capacity, made it possible to
go far in meeting this demand. Foreign visitor-nights spent in Yugoslavia
increased more than five-fold over the decade to reach 22.4 million in 1969,
while estimated excursion traffic (those not staying overnight) increased
from 1 million in 1960 to 30 million visitors in 1969.
2.06      Gross foreign exchange earnings from tourism, including those aris-
ing from tourist transportation, are estimated to have risen from US$22 mil-
lion in 1960 to US$310 million in 1969, an average annual growth rate of 35%.
As a proportion of total receipts from exports of goods and services, tourism
receipts rose from 3% to 13% over this period.
2.07       Statistics of the impact of the growth of the sector on employment
are incomplete. Between 1960 and 1969, 50,000 new jobs were created in tour-
ism and catering in the socialized sector, which at present absorbs about
130,000 workers (3.5% of the total in employment). In addition small priv-
ate ventures have developed (restaurants, pensions, etc.) particularly along
the Adriatic coast, but statistics on these are not available.
2.08      The principal destinations of holiday visitors to Yugoslavia are
resorts on the Adriatic coast where about 80% of foreign visitor nights are
spent and almost two thirds of all hotel capacity is located. Most visitors



to the northern coastal resorts arrive by road, particularly those from
Italy, Germany and Austria, who together account for more than 50% of all
stopover visitors. With the greater distances involved in reaching the
southern Adriatic coast, air traffic plays a greater role. As in other Medi-
terranean countries, Yugoslavia's foreign tourist traffic is rather seasonal
with peaks in July and August.
2.09      Recognizing the important contribution that tourism could make to
earnings of foreign exchange, particularly of convertible currencies, the
Federal and Republican Governments have taken a series of measures to assist
the growth of tlle sector. Important among these are:
(i) the implementation of various tourism oriented infra-
structure projects such as the Adriatic highway;
(ii) liberalization of restrictions on entry of foreign
visitors;
(iii) the introduction of incentives for development of
tourist facilities, including subsidies on bank funds
lent for tourism investments, higher foreign currency
retention quotas for tourist enterprises than for
other export industries, and exemlption from the 3%
Federal tax on salaries for personal incomes paid in
the tourist industry;
(iv) the promotion of comprelhensive regional plans with
particular emphasis on tourism, such as the Physical
Development Plan for the tqorth Adriatic Region, now
being undertaken witlh assistance from the UNDP.
2.10      The various incentives to development have helped to bring about
a major expansion of hotel capacity in the industry. From 1960 to 1969 ac-
commodation in hotels alone quadrupled, rising from 33,000 to 130,000 beds.
Investment is continuing. The 1971- 75 Draft Plan for the industry en-
visages a total investment exceedling $500 million, and additions to
capacity of 100,000 to 120,000 hotel beds over this period. It also fore-
casts foreign exchange earnings of US$900 million in 1975.  These targets
are ambitious. Nevertheless, Yugoslavia's present share of Mediterranean
tourism is still modest; hotel capacity is only 6% of the total in OECD
Mediterranean countries, and a slightly lower proportion of capacity in
all Mediterranean countries. hotel and other tariffs in Yugoslavia are
20-25% lower than in competing countries of the region. Because of this
competitive advantage Yugoslavia should be able to achieve an increase in
her share of Mediterranean tourism.



-4-
3. TliE PPOJECT
A. Background
3.01      Situated on the eastern side of the Bay of Trieste, at the apex
of the Adriatic Sea, the Slovenian coast has warm, dry summers, with- a swim--
ming season lasting for about 100 days. With hills running parallel to thle
sea, extensive vineyards, numerous bays and peninsulas, the coast forms a
beautiful natural setting for the resorts which have been established sinct
the early years of this century. Close to the project site is the ancient
city of Piran. Encircled by massive walls and towers, the city contains
Gothic and Renaissance churches and palaces which provide points of int-rest
in themselves and an attractive setting for a summer festival of traditional
songs and dances. The tourist resources of the Slovenian coast are enhanced
by its relative proximity to tourist centers such as Trieste, Venice, Liptzo,
Postojna and Bled -- all of which represent excursion points of high interest
for tourists spending their vacation in this area. Two major roads provide
access to the coast.  The first crosses the Istrian Peninsula running from
Skofjo (the border checkpoint with Italy) to Pula. The second leads in a
north-eastern direction and connects the area with inland centers such as
Ljubljana and Postojna, and thence to the Austrian border. The nearest in-
ternational airport is located at Pula, about two hours' drive. In the sum-
mer, hovercraft services are operated daily between the Slovenian coast and
Venice.
3.02      The coast at Portoroz was used mainly for small harbors serving the
Piran Salt Company until the turn of the century. The first hotel, built in
1910, attracted the first international tourists to the area. The relatively
slow growth of Portoroz as a tourist center prior to the Second World War was
followed by a building boom particularly during the 1960's. However, the
coastline remained crowded with obsolete warehouses, small harbors and salt
flats - the remnants of the area's industrial past. The Piran-Portoroz com-
mune has developed extensive and imaginative plans for the redevelopment of
the entire coastline which call for the removal of the warehouses and salt
flats, and the construction of a comprehensive sewerage system which will
greatly reduce the pollution of the sea. These plans are being rigorously
implemented by the commune. During 1970 several warehouses were torn down
and the construction of the sewerage treatment plant started. The old salt
company buildings and harbors will be replaced by beaches, promenades, small
marinas and landscaped parks. The commune plans to continue constructing
these improvements during the construction period of the proposed project
and expects to have most of the work completed by 1975, the date of the open-
ing of the Bernardin complex. The re-development of the site of the Bernardin
complex, which contains a number of obsolete warehouses and port facilities
will make a major contribution to the re-development and up-grading of the
entire coast.



-5-
The Project Site
3.03      The site for the project is the small promontory of Bernardin to
the west of Portoroz, approximately 1.5 km from the center of Piran. The
area is partly wooded and slopes gently from an altitude of 65 m to the
sea. It has almost 1 km of coastline and the main road between Portoroz
and Piran crosses the site. This road will be realigned as part of the
project. The site's sloping terrain offers unobstructed views of the
Adriatic. It is the last large tract located within easy reach of the
cultural and recreational facilities of Piran and Portoroz. (Map 1). The
sponsors of the project are acquiring title to 26 ha. of land. It has been
agreed that confirmation of title to this land shall be a condition of ef-
fectiveness of the proposed loan.
3.04      The concept of the project is that of an integrated tourist resort
large enough to support a variety of facilities for sports and entertainnent,
restaurants, shops and other services. The project is designed to cater for
the resident guests and the large numbers of excursion visitors who will be
attracted by the variety and proximity of facilities available. The Bernardin
complex was conceived within the larger framework of the Development Plan for
Portoroz.
3.05      The project concept is one common to the Portoroz-Piran area.  It
consists of a self-contained "nucleus" hotel with four "annex hotels" partici-
pating in common services and under the general direction of the project man-
agement. There is, separate from the nucleus hotel, a central catering and
restaurant unit to serve the residents of the annex hotels and transient vis-
itors. This arrangement should allow substantial operating economies from
bulk purchase of supplies and from the provision of services such as heating
and laundry which will be operated for the complex as a whole. There will be
a common computerized reservations system.
3.06      The concept of a nucleus hotel with annexes operating under one
overall direction permits the flexibility of opening and closing units as
required by seasonal fluctuations in traffic with consequential economies in
operating and maintenance costs. There will also be economies in investment
costs fromi providing central restaurant and other services for residents of
the four annexes.
B. Description
3.07      Ihe project comprises a first class hotel of 400 beds and four an-
nexes each with 525 beds, with shops, restaurants, and recreation facilities.
Acconmmodation In the four annexes will be of somewhat lower standard than in
the nucleus hotel.  While the first class hotel will remain open throughout
the year, the annexes will be open only during April-Octoher.



3.08      The nucleus hotel will be placed near the shoreline.  Annex hotels
will be located on higher ground to the north and will be separated from the
nucleus hotel and shore recreational facilities by an open green zone. (ILap
2). The architectural concept is of multistory hotels with terraces and
balconies. The approximate total area of buildings is about 70,000 m2 divided
as follows: first class hotel 20.7%; annex hotels 71.4%; shops and restaurantts
1.9%; agencies and offices 2.4%; service center 3.6%.
3.09      Staff housing is included in the project because of the housing
shortage in the Piran-Portoroz area and because the complex will draw part
of its staff from other parts of the country.  Twenty apartments and hostt'i,
with accommodations for 150 seasonal workers will be provided.
C. Des ign and Plannin;k
_.     _  _   ___
3.10      Architectural and city planning controls are being strictly enforced
by the Portoroz municipal authorities. The proposed project must conform to
these regulations, which not only govern the use of the land but also the
height, bulk and materials of buildings. The generalized land use plan has
already been approved as being in conformance with existing zoning regulations.
Before the building permit is granted the detailed architectural studies of
the hotel complex will also have to be approved by the municipality. In
order to ensure that the final detailed architectural designs meet the operat-
ing requirements of the complex, the architects' brief will be developed with
the assistance of the management consultants referred to in paragraph 6.12.
The final site plan and architectural designs would be submitted to the Bank
for approval.
D. Cost Estimates
3.12      The estimated total cost and foreign exchange component of the
project are summarized in the following table:



- 7 -
COST ESTIMATE
(in millions)
Dinars              US$ Equivalent             % of
Local  ForeiRn  Total   Local Foreign   Total   Project Cost
i. Land            15.6       -      15.6    1.04       -       1.04         4.4
ii. Construction
Site Develop-
ment         23.0      6.3    29.3    1.53    0.42    1.95
Buildings    120.0    33.0   153.0    8.00    2.20   10.20
Professional
Fees          8.4    14.1    22.5    0.56    0.94    1.50
Sub-total    151.4       53.4  204.8   10.09    3.56   13.65           57.2
iii. Equipment         9.1      20.7   29.8    0.61    1.38    1.99            8.3
iv. Iiousing          3.4      0.9    4.3    0.23    0.06    0.29             1.2
v. Staff Training
and Pre-open-
ing Expenses  3.0        0.9    3.9    0.20    0.06    0.26            1.1
vi. Management
Assistance      0.8       5.1    5.9    0.05    0.34    0.39             1.6
vii. Project
Administration 3.0        0.9    3.9    0.20    0.06    0.26            1.1
viii. Working
Cap_tal         6.9        -      6.9    0.46      -       0.46          1.9
Total before
Contingency 193.2       81.9  275.1   12.88    5.46   18.34
is. Contin_ ncj
Physical
Increase      16.8       7.4   24.2    1.12    0.49    1.61
Price
Increase      44.9      14.2   59.1    2.99    0.95    3.94
Sub-total    61.7       21.6   83.3    4.11    1.44    5.55          23.2
TOTAL PROJECT
COST         254.9    103.5  358.4   16.99    6.90   23.89          100.0



- 8 -
3.13      The total cost of tlhe project is estimated at US$23.9 million.
Unit constructioni costs of US$ 145.0 equivalent per m2 were used in project
cost estimates, reflecting up-to-date construction costs of similar types
of accommodation il Slovenia.  Construction costs in Yugoslavia hiave
increased at an averag,e rate of about 12.5%  annually since 1965 and this
trend has recently accelerated. The dinar was devalued in January 1971
from 1) 12.5 to D 15.0 per U.S. dollar. It is very difficult so soon after
the devaluation to gauge its likely impact on domestic costs. In arriving
at the price contingency, an 8% per annum increase has been assumed during
the construction period for domestic costs and a 6% per annum increase for
foreign costs. The 8% estimate of yearly domestic cost increases is based
on construction price trends in Yugoslavia in the four years following the
1965 devaluation; the price contingency allowances can be regarded as pru-
dently adequate. In addition, a 10% physical contingency allowance for
construction has been made, since final designs for the project have not
yet been completed. For site development and equipment, a contingency al-
lowance of 15% has been included to cover undefined soil conditions and
unforeseen equipment needs. The details of the allowances provided for
other components of the project are shown in Table 2. The overall provision
for contingency would amount to 23.2% of total project costs.
3.14      The standards of hotel accommodation under the proposed project
are economical. The sizes of bedrooms and public areas have been based upon
standards of similar hotels in Slovenia and abroad. Estimated unit costs of
construction and equipment for different classes of hotels are shown below:
Project lotels Unit Costs (US$)
Hotel Category       Unit        Site Development  Building  Equipment   Total
Nucleus Hotel      Bed Cost              750           5,000      1,250       7,000
Annex Hotels       Bed Cost              429           3,333        476       4,238
These costs are reasonable.
3.15      The foreign exchange component of the total project cost would
depend upon the outcome of the international biddling. The size of construc-
tion contracts would be large enough to attract foreign bids. Were such bids
successful, and were the bulk of equipment to be imported, the foreign
exchange component could be as liigh as 36% of total project cost. Should
Yugoslav contractors win the bids and the bulk of equipment be obtained from
domestic firms, the foreign exclhange component would be about 24%. On the
assumption that all construction contracts would be won by Yugoslav contrac-
tors and the bulk of equipment would be imported, as is probable, the foreign
exchange component would be 29% of total project costs or US$ 6.9 million.



-9-
Amount of the Loan
3.16      The proposed loan of US$ 10.0 million would amiount to 38%/ of the
estimated costs of the project.  It would cover thie foreign exchange costs
of the project, estimated at US$6.9 million equivalent, interest and other
clharges on thie Ilank loan during construction, amounting to US.$ 0.9 million,
and would provide about US$ 2.2 million equivalent for local cturrency fi-
nancing.  If all construction and equipment contracts were wonl by foreig&iiLs
the loan would approximate the full foreign exclhange component of the proj-
ect.
Disbursements
3.17      The loan would be disbursed on the basis of (a) identifiable foreign
exchange costs of all imported equipment and professional services, (b) in-
terest and other charges during construction and (c) an appropriate percent-
age of contracts for civil works and locally procurecd equipment. The esti-
mated schedule of disbursements of the loan is shown in Table 3.
Procurement
3.18      Civil works contracts and contracts for equipment and furniture
would be awarded under international conipetitive bidding.  Items would be
grouped to the extent practicable to encourage such competitive bidding.
The proposed project is well within thie capacity of the Yugoslav construc-
tion industry to implement, but it is expected that foreign contractors would
submit bids. In evaluating bids, local equipment manufacturers would be al-
lowed a preferenitial margin of 15% of the c.i.f. landed costs of competing
imports or the level of customs duties generally applicable, whichever is
the lower.  During the loan negotiations assurances were obtained that a
pre-qualification system, prepared by the consulting architects and engineers
and acceptable to the Bank, would be employed to ensure that only qualified
contractors would be allowed to submit bids for construction.
E.  Execution
3.19      Consultant architects and engineers would be commissioned to make
thte final design of the project including interior designi and landscaping.
They would be responsible for thie preparation of master plans, specifica-
tions and working drawings. Thley woul(d also supervise tetndering, construc-
tion, and installation of equipment, and would approve payments.  The con-
clusion of a contract between the borrower and the consultant architects and
engineers, acceptable to the Bank, lhas been agreed as a condition of effec-
tiveness of the proposed loan. This contract wouldl include detailed project
imp)lementation programs.
3.2(0     A construction office headed by a full-time manager will be estab-
lished for the proper e:xecution of the project.  The construction manager
would be directty responisible to tThe Director of Bernardin and woul(d be ap-
pointe(d subject to approval by thle Balk.  The construction office would in-
cludle otl a full-timne basis arclultects, engineers, a procurement officer and



- 10 -
an accountant, with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.  The borrower
has provided assurances that the construction office would be provided with
sufficient supporting staff, office space, equipment, transportation and
finance to enable it to function effectively.  It has been agreed that the
establishment of the construction office will be a conditioni of effectiveness
of the proposed loan.
3.21      The consultant architects and enginieers will prepare a maintenance
mantual containing detailed instructions for routine maintenance.  During
negotiations it was agreed that the borrower will provide assuranices tllat
adequate provision for maintenance as recommende(d in this manual would be
made.
4. EXTERNAL INFRASTRUCTURE
4.01      The Piran-Portoroz area is well supplied with electric power and
there is an adequate supply of water to meet the demand which will be gen-
erated both by the Bernardin project and other hotels likely to be constructed
durinig the next few years. The area's sewerage system has, however, been un-
able to accommodate the expansion of tourism. In fact, hotels and residences
along the coast have been discharging untreated sewage into the sea at various
points, resulting in heavy pollution along parts of the coastline used for
bathing and other recreational purposes. Aware that the planned expansion of
tourism would aggravate this already serious problem, the municipality of
Piran, two years ago, started to carry out a major program to expand and up-
grade the sewerage system along the entire coastline from the southern border
of Portoroz northward, including the old city of Piran. The program involves
the construction of treatment plants and of a new trunk sewer line. During
negotiations the Federal Government has agreed to provide assurances that
this program will be completed to serve the needs of Bernardin not later
than June 30, 1975.
4.02      The municipality and the Government of Slovenia are also fully
aware of the importance of improving and expanding the main access road
from Italy to the Piran area and the entire western coastline of the Istrian
Peninsula. The road becomes heavily congested during the peak tourist sea-
son and on some week-ends and holidays during the rest of the year. Recog-
nizing that increasing congestion is tending to make the road a serious bot-
tleneck for the continuous growth of tourism in the area, the Government of
Slovenia engaged engineering consultants who carried out a series of studies
of the road, the latest of which was completed in June 1970. While this road
is not included in the Republic's plans for improving the road system whicl
have been submitted for Bank financing, representatives of the Republic of
Slovenia stated during appraisal that they hoped to include it in the Repub-
lic's five-year road program which is now being prepared. The Federal Gov-
ernment has agreed to provide assurances that the widening and improvement
of this road, will be completed no later than June 30, 1975. The Federal
Government has also agreed to provide assurances that provision of pedestrian
access to Piran from Bernardin and a study for the relief of traffic conges-
tion and parking problems in Piran will be completed not later than June 30,
1975.



5. JUSTIFICATION
A. Market Demand
5.01      While foreign tourism to Yougoslavia and to the Slovenian coast
grew rather slowly during the 1950's, with more liberal entry policies and
improved transport links, the growth in foreign visitor nights spent on the
Slovenian coast was rapid in the 1960's. From 1963-1969 the average annual
compound growth rate was 14%, reaching 800,000 in the latter year.  This
increase was not matched by a corresponding growth in domestic visitor
nights which fell after the devaluation of 1965 when hotel prices in terms
of dinars rose. Domestic visitor nights fell sharply in 1966 and 1967 and
did not reach the 1963 level again until 1968. Thus the overall annual
growth in visitor nights from 1963-69 was 8.2% (Table 4).
5.02      Besides stopover visitors, the Slovenian coast attracts large
numbers of excursionists (those not staying over-night) who come mainly
from Italy. Although statistical data are not complete, it is estimated
that not less than 6 million excursionists visited the Slovenian coast in
1967 and still larger numbers in 1969.
5.03      Stopover foreign visitor traffic is highly seasonal with July and
August accounting for about 60% of all foreign visitor nights, and June to
September accounting for 85% of such nights. Excursion traffic is spread
more evenly through the year, with only about 40% of the total traffic
occurring between June and September.
5.04      The Slovenian coast is close to the population centers of central
Europe and most visitors arrive by road. This is an important factor in
making a holiday there less costly than at centers further south such as
Dubrovnik. Another factor is the lower cost of accommodation, typical
rates between US$ 5.0 and US$ 8.0 for full board being lower than compara-
ble competitive foreign facilities. Thus the market for the Slovenian
coast has been much broader than that for more distant and expensive des-
tinations and the principal competition has come from resorts on the Italian
coast at the head of the Adriatic sea, which are about the same distance from
Austria and Germany. Visitors from these two countries account for about 60%
of foreign visitor-nights spent on the Slovenian coast. A further 13-15% are
spent by visitors from northern Italy.
5.05      Accommodation capacity in Slovenia expanded more slowly than the
growth of traffic between 1963 and 1969. The number of beds in all types
of accommodation rose over this period from almost 11,000 to 14,700. The
great majority of these beds were in supplementary accommodations, and
only 4,400 in hotels of categories A through D. The area of Piran-Portoroz
had the only category A hotels (1,200 beds) while capacity in category B
hotels (2,200) was about equally divided between the Piran-Portoroz area
and the rest of the Slovenian coast. Only a quarter of the capacity in



- 12 -
category C and D hotels (1,000 beds in all) was located in Iliran-Portoroz.
Piran-Portoroz thus accounted for more than half of all hotel capacity on
the Slovenian coast and all of the higher class capacity.
5.06      While average annual occupancies on the Slovenian coast in all
types of accommodation are low -- approximately 20% -- the hotels in
Portoroz averaged 39% in recent years and in the higher category hotels
about 45%. These rates are somewhat higher than in several Italian re-
sorts, for example Venice (35%) and Rimini (25%). Thus for the higher
category of hotel the season is somewhat longer, and with the upgrading
of the Piran-Portoroz area now in prospect a further moderate increase in
annual occupancy rates may be expected.
5.07      The high volume of excursion traffic along the Slovenian coast
has a substantial impact on hotel revenues. A comparison between similarly
priced hotels on the Slovenian and other parts of the Yugoslav coast in-
dicates that excursionists contribute an estimated extra 25%-30% to the
revenues of the former.
5.08      There are no plans for expanding capacity in C and D class hotels
and in supplementary accommodations on the Slovenian coast. Taking into
account the Bernardin and other planned projects, capacity in higher cate-
gory hotels will increase from almost 3,300 in 1969 to 11,000 beds by 1975.
Of the total increase 4,300 beds would be in category B hotels and the bal-
ance in A class hotels, with the exception of 400 rooms in the Bernardin
complex which would be first class.  These developments would mean a much
greater expansion of capacity along the Slovenian coast in the coming years
than during the 1960's, and a considerable upgrading of capacity.
5.09      It is estimated that during the next 10 years the number of German
and Austrian vacationists will increase by about 10 million. It is also
likely that the nearby North Italian market will continue to grow at a sub-
stantial rate. A major part of these markets will consist of family and
other price conscious vacationists, for whom the Slovenian coast has a
special appeal not only because of the easy and low cost access by car,
but also because accommodation will continue to be relatively inexpensive.
These financial considerations are reinforced by long-standing cultural and
linguistic ties - German and Italian being widely spoken. Moreover, as the
competing Italian resorts become more crowded -- severe congestion in the
peak season is already evident -- the natural alternative is the Istrian
coast including that part of it in Slovenia. At the same time, the short
coastline in Slovenia favors an upgrading of the area. Steps to this end
at Piran-Portoroz have been detailed above (para. 3.02) and within this
zone the Bernardin complex will be able to offer by comparison with its com-
petitors direct access to the sea, relatively uncrowded beaches and unspoiled
natural surroundings.
5.10      The expansion of traffic is expected to match the relatively
moderate increases in hotel capacity in the Piran-Portoroz area up to 1974
with no significant change in average annual occupancies. With the large
addition to capacity in 1975 following the opening of the Bernardin com-



- 13 -
plex, average occupancies in higher category hotels are likely to fall in
that year, but should be back to the current level by 1977. (Annex 1).
These assumptions are reasonable in that the growth of traffic they imply
is not out of line with likely developments in originating markets. More-
over the new hotels will cater both for new traffic and previously unsatis-
fied demand.
B. Economic Justification
Economic Return
5.11      The quantifiable net benefits from the project consist of visitors'
expenditures in the complex less the costs (excluding depreciation, taxes
and interest payments) of operating the project. The investment is the
capital cost of the project itself plus the share of the cost of external
infrastructure properly chargeable to the project, which is estimated at
approximately US$ 0.9 million.
5.12      Additional benefits would be derived from visitors' expenditures
outside the project to the extent that these do not require additional in-
vestments but enable a fuller utilization of existing capacity to be made.
It has not been possible to quantify such benefits with much precision.
Sample studies indicate, however, that 25% to 38% of tourists' total daily
expenditures in Yugoslav coastal resorts are for goods and services other
than accommodation and food. These external effects are thus likely to be
quite sizable and are not reflected in the measure of the internal econonic
return, which is therefore only a partial reflection of the overall economic
benefits which the Yugoslav economy is likely to derive from the operation
of this project.
5.13      With an estimated economic life of the project of 25 years and
at the recently established official rate of exchange of D 15.0 to US$ 1.0,
the internal economic return on the project would be 9.0%. As approximately
90% of visitor expenditures would represent receipts of foreign exchange,
the rate of return would be sensitive to any change in the foreign exchange
rate. The results of sensitivity testing indicate that the rate of return
would also be sensitive to changes in occupancy levels and a delay in open-
ing (Annex 2). In order to test the project's sensitivity to changes in the
value of certain variables, the rate of return was recalculated on varying
figures for occupancy rates, the exchange rate and the opening date. These
tests indicate that the internal economic return would range from 8% to more
than 13%. The "best estimate" of the economic rate of return is 13%.
Foreign Exchange Earnings
5.14      When the proposed project is fully operational the annual net for-
eign exchange earnings are estimated at US$ 5.5 million equivalent. This
compares with the estimated foreign component in total investment costs plus
interest during construction of US$ 6.9 million.



- 14 -
6. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. The Sponsor - EMONA
6.01      The project sponsor, the enterprise Emona (the old Roman name for
Ljubljana) is the result of a merger in April 1970 of the two enterprises
'Prehrana' and 'Agrokombinat Emona'. Emona is the tenth largest of all
Yugoslav trading enterprises with 1969 combined sales of about US$ 135
million equivalent. Prehrana's main activities were in processing food-
stuffs and in wholesale and retail trade through its 133 outlets both for
foodstuffs and a wide range of consumer goods. In 1968 it expanded into the
tourism field by establishing a travel agency and by subsequently acquiring
two hotels and operating hydrofoil services along the Adriatic coast. The
investment in the Bernardin project continues this vertical integration
policy which is designed to (i) secure a market for the sale of foodstuffs
and other goods processed and distributed by Emona, and (ii) obtain access
to additional foreign exchange. With employed resources of about US$ 35.3
million equivalent, Prehrana was the larger of the two merged enterprises
with a record of very fast growth during which its operations have increas-
ingly extended nationally from its main base in Slovenia.
6.02      Agrokombinat Emona's main business was the production, processing
and sale (mainly wholesale) of meat and meat products principally in Slovenia.
Its growth was slower than that of Prehrana and its profitability was sub-
stantially affected by Government price policies for meat and animal feeds.
Management responded to these limitations by selling technical knowhow and
constructing meat production facilities both in Yugoslavia and abroad.
Agrokombinat Emona's total employed assets at the end of 1969 were about
US$ 30 million equivalent.
6.03      Emona's management structure has depth and the top management team
is dynamic, flexible and mature. Although faced with the problems which
automatically follow from any large merger, the management group can be
expected to obtain the considerable advantages which the merger will make
possible. Tables summarizing Prehrana's and Emona's financial growth are
attached (Tables 5 and 6).
6.04      Emona's management originally proposed that the Bernardin project
should be an integral part of the Emona enterprise, operated as part of a
hotel and tourism division. This would have consisted, in addition to the
Bernardin project, of the travel agency and other hotels operated by Emona.
The acceptance of this proposal would have meant the exposure of the proj-
ect to the risk entailed in all future activities of Emona as well as a
potential liability for Emona's future debts. It would have required ex-
tensive supervision of all Emona's numerous activities by the Bank, almost
all of them unrelated to the tourism project. It, therefore, has been agreed
in principle with Emona that a legal separate unit should be formed to con-
struct Bernardin and operate it subsequently.



- 15 -
B. The Borrower
6.05      The borrower of the Bank loan would be the new entity to be called
Hotel 'Bernardin', Piran (HBP). HBP would be somewhat analogous, in western
terms, to a subsidiary company whose sole shareholder would be Emona. The
detailed provisions of the relationship between the two entities will be
covered in a joint venture contract. During negotiations agreement was
reached on a definitive version of the contract.
6.06      The contract is designed to provide for the assets of the project
to be protected from any future creditors of Emona, for the introduction of
Emona's equity investment and for the rights, duties, obligations and under-
takings governing the relationship between Emona and HBP, including a for-
mula providing that 40% of the annual net profits or losses is attributed to
Emona.
6.07      During negotiations it was agreed that prior to the presentation of
the loan to the Executive Directors, the separate legal entity HBP would be
formed and the contract acceptable to the Bank regulating the relationship
between Emona and HBP signed. Changes in the terms of this contract or in
the relationship between Emona and HBP should be subject to approval by the
Bank.
C. Organizational Structure
6.08      The operational management of the complex will be exercised by the
Director of HBP, who would be subject to Bank approval during the first three
years of operations. The Director would be a member of a "Business Commit-
tee", consisting in addition to himself of representatives of Emona and HBP.
This Committee will be responsible for the determination of overall policy.
The appointment of the Director of HBP will be a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed loan.
6.09      Subject to modifications which may be suggested by the management
consultants referred to below, the Director of HBP would, in addition to an
Assistant Director, have five department heads or managers reporting to him.
These would comprise the Managers of Operations, Technical Services, Sales,
Administration and the Chief Accountant. The Manager of Operations would
control the central reservation system as well as the food and drink prepa-
ration and selling areas. Each annex would serve only breakfast to its
guests, the other meals being taken in the central restaurant. This and
the central allocation of rooms by the hotel reception would enable super-
vision and staffing of the annexes to be kept to the minimum. A chart of
the proposed management organization is attached (Chart 2).



- 16 -
D. Management
6.10      The creation of a successful manageement structure for the complex
may be divided into two phases.  In tle first or pre-opening phase, m1anage-
ment systems and procedures would be developed and key personnel recruited
and trained to operate the project successfully. In the second or post-
opening phase, necessary changes in management systems and staff would be
made as indicated by actual operating experience.
6.11      Emona already posseses considerable management resources in, for
example, the computer and systenLs analysis fields. Emona has agreed to
make these resources available in developing the systems and procedures
necessary to operate the project. In addition Emona has, within its own
organization, staff experienced in the hotel and travel agency businesses.
As appropriate these, also, would be available to assist in developing the
project systems.
6.12      Emona has decided that it will utilize qualified and experienced
foreign consultants to assist it in developing specific systems e.g. the
reservation system and overall operations control. An appropriate allow-
ance for this has been made in the estimated costs of the project. The
firms employed and the terms of reference will be subject to Bank approval.
7. FINANCE
A. Financing Plan
7.01      The total estimated financial requirements of the project
together with interest during construction are expected to be provided
as follows:
Financing Plan
(US$ tillion)
Estimated      Interest
Project        During                      % of
Cost       Construction        Total      Total
Equity
Emona                      5.50             -              5.50       21.6
Long-Term Debt
Ljubljana Banka (via Emona)9.29              0.78           10.07       39.3
I.B.R.D.                  9.10             0.90           10.00       39.1
23.89            1.68           25.57      100.0



- 17 -
7.02      Emona's equity contribution of US$5.50 million equivalent will
include cash in the amount of US$4.46 million and land valued at US$1.04
million. It has been agreed that acquisition of the project land will be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan. Emona's equity contribu-
tion (US$5.5 million) is to be obtained from a loan to Emona from Ljubljanska
Banka of Ljubljana, the largest investment bank of Slovenia and the largest
bank in Yugoslavia after the Yugoslav Investment Bank.
7.03      It should be noted that the usual concept of equity and its rela-
tionship to risk is not fully applicable in the Yugoslav context. The
workers of HBP will have the assets of the enterprise assigned to them by
the State, will have rights over its income and will bear some of the com-
mercial risk since their income would be reduced to some extent in the
event of losses. They will give up a percentage of net profits to Emona
under the joint venture contract. Outside the terms of this contract, Emona
will not legally have rights of equity in the usual sense. Only a portion
of the benefits of the high leverage in this loan will accrue to the sponsor,
Emona the major share will go to HBP's workers and to build up HPB's fi-
nancial position. As is usual in Yugoslavia and as noted below, the bulk of
the dinar financing will be provided by a local bank on terms so favorable
as to constitute quasi-equity. The proposed financial structure is accept-
able in the light of these considerations.
7.04      Emona's loan to HBP of US$ 9.29 million equivalent, like its eq-
uity contribution, is to be financed from a loan from the Ljubljanska Banka,
Ljubljana. The Ljubljanska Banka has agreed to be jointly and severally
liable with Emona to provide the finance necessary to cover cost over-runs.
Ljubljanska Banka has confirmed that in accordance with its normal practice
an additional amount will be provided to cover interest during construction
on its loan. The loans from Ljubljanska Banka would be for twenty years
plus approximately five years of grace depending on the actual construction
period. The loan from Emona to lIPB would be for the same period and it would
be subordinated to the proposed loan from the Bank.
7.05      Both the Federal and the Slovenian Governments subsidize the
interest rates payable on long-term loans made by the banks for tourism
projects. These subsidies will apply to the loans provided by the Ljubl-
janska Banka. The Bank's loan would be eligible for the 2-1/2% subsidy
paid by the Republic of Slovenia but tlhe Federal rebate would not be pay-
able on the proposed IBRD loan unless it were to be channeled through a
Yugoslav bank or enterprise. The Federal subsidy effectively reduces the
interest rate charged to the project by the Ljubljanska Banka to 5%. The
subsidy of 2-1/2% from thie Republic of Slovenia is paid direct to the bor-
rower and reduces the effective interest rate paid by the project to 2-1/2%
on the local loan.
7.06      The Yugoslav interest rate subsidy system for investments in the
enlargement of tourist acconmiodation facilities is similar to that used by
other major MSediterranean tourism countries, including France, Italy, Spain,
Greece and Morocco. The area is the center of European mass tourism, which



- 18 -
requires low-cost facilities and where non-commercial accommodation influ-
ences the prices that can be charged by hotels. The subsidy system is based
on the justification that success in attracting additional foreign tourists
and thus achieving a significant increase in net foreign exchange earnings
is of much broader benefit to the economy as a whole than indicated by the
financial return to the project itself. The subsidies are thus a means of
creating financial conditions favorable enough to attract investments for
projects which have a relatively modest financial, but a satisfactory eco-
nomic return and give rise to sizable external economic benefits. As already
noted, the use of these subsidies is now widespread throughout the Mediter-
ranean basin and cannot be abandoned by any one country without running the
risk that some of its new hotels will be unable to compete successfully.
These considerations apply to the competitive position of the Bernardin
project vis-a-vis both its local and foreign competitors.
7.07      It is proposed that the IBRD loan be made directly to HBP for a
term of twenty-five years, including a grace period of five years to cover
the construction period and the first operating year. In addition to the
guarantee of the Federal Government, Emona has agreed to guarantee the pro-
posed loan.
B. Financial Forecast
7.08      Forecasts of annual earnings, financial position and cash flow
for the first 20 years of the project are presented in Annex 3, together
with details of operating assumptions. Projected earnings are summarized
below:
Projected Annual Earnings
(US$ Million)
Year Ending December 31                1975      1976     1977    1980   1990
Operating Year:                          1         2         3       6       16
Average Annual Hotel Occupancy (%)    38          43        45      45       45
Tota,l Sales                          6.63      7.28     7.60    7.60    7.60
Net Profit Before Interest            0.91      1.24     1.41    1.58    1.58
As % of Original Investment 1/        3.6       4.8      5.5      6.2     6.2
1/   Operatina profit before interest but after depreciation and deferred
expenses as % of invested capital of US$25.57 million.
7.09      A detailed financial analysis was made by the Institute of Eco-
nomic Research Ljubljana, Consultants to Emona. This has been revised by
the Bank. The assumptions and estimates used are consistent with both
local and international experience. The tariffs are approximately the
same as the 1970 rates charged in comparable Slovenian hotels adjusted to
reflect the upgrading that will follow the construction of the HBP project



- 19 -
in the Piran area and to reflect the price increases expected by 1975 when
the project opens. The 1975 full pension tariff would range from about
US$ 11.0 to US$ 16.0 depending on the season and on the choice between the
hotel or annex. The operating costs have been estimated on a conservative
basis.
7.10      The financial rate of return on the project estimated on a dis-
counted cash flow basis for the first 25 years of operation would be 8.2%.
In the event that the project opening were to be delayed by one year, the
financial rate of return would be reduced to 7.4%. Assuming an occupancy
level of 43% in the typical year (i.e. from 1977 onward) the financial rate
of return would be 7.6%. The impact of these alternate assumptions on the
projected cash flow indicates that the project should be able without dif-
ficulty to meet its debt service obligations. Even though these financial
rates of return are rather modest, they are not unusual for a resort hotel
in an area catering to mass tourism in a highly competitive situation and
subject to marked seasonality of demand. The rate of return calculations
did not take account of a possible future modification of the foreign ex-
change rate. Such a development would affect the rate of return favorably,
because receipts in dinars would increase while the debt service on the long
term dinar obligations would remain unchanged.
7.11      A forecast of Balance Sheets and Financial Ratios is summarized
below:
Projected Balance Sheets and Financial Ratios
(US$ Killion)
Year Ending December 31:               1975    1976    1977    1980    1990
Operating Year                           1       2        3        6      16
Current Assets                         2.25     3.56    4.39    5.09   5.96
Current Liabilities                   0.87      1.29    1.47    1.72   2.43
Net Working Capital                   1.38      2.27    2.92    3.37   3.53
Total Net Assets                25.31    25.02   24.77   23.91  19.08
Long-Term Debt                       19.63    19.16   18.66   16.97   8.38
Original Equity and Retained
Larnings                            5.68      5.86    6.11    6.94  10.70
Long-Term Debt Service Coverage        1.8      2.0      2.2      2.1    1.8
Long-Term Debt Equity Ratio           78:22    77:23   75:25   71:29  44:56
7.12      It has been agreed during negotiations that Emona's equity capital
will be contributed before the loan capital.  It has also been agreed that
35% of the net profits after providing for interest payments and depreciation
will be retained in HIBP reserves. HBP will not he liable for taxes on profits.



- 20 -
7.13      With the build up of retained earnings, HBP may find oppnrtunities
for profitable investment elsewhere.  It has been agreed that capital expen-
ditures, other than replacement, in excess of US$ 100,000 equivalent only be
made after consultation with the Bank.
7.14      Accounts and financial statements will be kept by HBIP in a form
acceptable to the Bank.  Audited financial statements in a form acceptable
to the Bank will be presented to the Bank within four months of the close of
the financial year.
8.  RECOrt.IENDATIONS
8.01      During loan negotiations, the terms of the contract between Emona
and FIBP referred to in para. 6.07 were agreed and assurances were obtained
that:
(i)  any change in the relationship between
Emona and HBP or in the terms of the
contract between them would be subject
to approval by the Bank (para. 6.07);
(ii) a pre-qualification system prepared by the
consulting architects and engineers and
acceptable to the Bank would be employed
to ensure that only qualified contractors
would submit bids for construction contracts
(para. 3.18);
(iii)   architects and engineers, acceptable to the
Bank, would be appointed to design the proj-
ect and supervise its execution with terms of
reference and conditions approved by the Bank
(para. 3.19);
(iv)   a construction office would be set up, headed
by a full-time construction manager acceptable
to the Bank, and with adequate supporting staff
for the execution of the project (para. 3.20);
(v) adequate provision for maintenance as recom-
mended in the maintenance manual would be made
(para. 3.21);
(vi) the appointment of the Director of HBP would be
subject to the approval of the Bank (para. 6.08);
(vii)  the selection and terms of reference of the man-
agement consultants retained by HBP would be
subject to approval by the Bank (para. 6.12);



- 21 -
(viii)  the loan from Emona to IIBP would be subordinated
to the proposed loan from the Bank (para. 7.04);
(ix)  Emona and/or Ljubljanska Banka would provide funds
needed to meet the cost overruns (para. 7.07);
(x)  the cash equity capital due from Emona to HBP would
be the first US$ 4.46 million equivalent provided
by Lmona and an adequate proportion of the net
profits after providing for interest and deprecia--
tion would be retained in HBP's reserves (para. 7.12);
(xi)  audited financial statements in a form acceptable to
the Bank would be presented to the Bank within four
months of the close of the financial year (para. 7.14);
(xii)  capital expenditures, except for replacement,
in excess of US$100,000 equivalent would be
committed only after consultation with the
Bank (para. 7.13).
8.02       During loan negotiations, the guarantor has agreed to provide as-
surances that:
(i) the widening and improvement of the main access
road from Italy to the Piran area and the Istrian
Peninsula, will be completed not later than June
30, 1975 (para. 4.02);
(ii)  the extension of the sewerage system in the area
of Portoroz to serve the needs of Bernardin will
be completed not later than June 30, 1975 (para.
4.01);
(iii)  provision of pedestriani access to Piran from Ber-
iiardin and a study for the relief of traffic con-
gestion and parking problems in Piran will be
completed not later than June 30, 1975 (para. 4.02);
(iv)  the Bank will be iniformed of any change in the
interest rate subsidies payalble on all loans to
HItP by the Federal and Slovenian Governm1ents
(para. 7.05).
8.03       During negotiations the following conditions of effectiveness of
the proposed loan have been agreed:
(i)  the appoinUtent of the Director of IBEP (para. 6.08);
(ii)  the establishment of tihe construction office (para.
3. 20);



- 22 -
(ill)  the conclusion of contracts between the borrower
and the archiitectural and( engineering consultants
and the management consultants (paras. 3.19 and 6.12);
(iv)  confirmation of the borrower's clear title to 26 lha
of the project site (para. 3.03).
8.04      With the indicated assurances, the proposed project provides
a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$ 10.0 million for a term of 25
years including a 5 year grace period.



BEPnEDIN TOURISM PROJECT
Breakdown of Cost
o.1                                                                                             Cost of                                     Cost of       Cost of Manage-
of                                        Area     Cost of Site    Cost of        Cost of   Professional  Cost of Physical Facilities       Project       sent and Staff             TOTAL
Units      fType o- Accoda;ion            (in =2)   Developmient  Construction    Equipment    Services                      in  Tug.    Ainistration         Training                    (in Tug.
______ ((in US$'000)  (in US$'000)  (in US$'000)  (in US$'000)   (in US$'IOXO)         Din.'100)   (in US$'DOO)    (in US$i000)    (in US$'000) Din.'OOO)
HOTELS
1     Finst 5ass   te. (400 beds)       14,500         300         2,000            500           350           3,150
4     Annex Hotels (2100 beds)          50,000         900         7ooo          l,oo             950           9,850
Sub-Total                      64,500       1,200         9,000          1,500         1,300          13,000         195,000
HOUSING
20      W1=3ng Units (60 beds)                                         190                                         190
1    Hostel (150 beds)                                                100                                         100
Sub-Total                                                    290                                         290            4,350
AVOILLA= FACILITIS
4     Restaurants                          800         100            160           100            25             385
6     Shops                                500         100            100            50            25             275
Public Facilities                  1,700         250           440            140            75             905
Service Facilities                 2,500         300           500            200            75           1.075
Sub-Total                       5,500         750          1,200           490           200           2,640           39,600
Total before Contingencies   70,000       1,950         10,490         1,990         1,500          15,930          238,950       260              650             16,840      252,600
Physical Increase                                290          1,020           300                         1,610                                                           1,610
Price In crease                                  360         2,820            480                         3,660                         90              190              3,940
Total Continzgencies                        650          3,840           780                         5,270           79,050        go              190               5,550      83,250
-                                                                               -                   - _                                                                           - ....... -_ x. .. ,
HUlIATlIVE TOTAL                            2,600         14,330         2,770         1,50o           21,200         318,000        350             840              22,390     335,850
Foreign Exchange Coponent %                       20.8%          20.6%         68.2%         62.7%                29.8%                  22.8%           59*5%                30.8%
Total Foreig2 Exchange                           540          2,950         .1,890          940            6,320          94,800         80             500               6,90o   1,035,000
Esti ated Disbursement of
Loan by Sector, %                               33.6%          33.6%         68.2%         62.7%                40.2%                                                       40.6%
Total Disbursement                               873         4,817          1,890           940            8,520         127,800         80             500               9,100     136,500
Interest and Other Charges                                                                                                                                                  900      13,500
during Construction
TOTAL ItA                                                                                                                                                             10,000      150,000
* Excl,ding land and warking capital
February 1971
CD



YUGOSLAVIA: BERNA8DIN TOURISM PROJECT
CONTflEGENC! ALLOiWANCES
Management and
Professional                                                      Project          StAff Training
SIte Development        Buildings               Fees              Equipment              Housing          Acainistration         Aasistance
Local    Foreign    Local    Forein    Local   Foreign    Local    Foreign    Local    Foreign    Local    Foreign    Local   Foreign                  Total
Allowances for
Physical Increase                      '5%                   10%                   -                   15%
Allowances for
Price Increase                    17%        12%      26%         19%              -             26%         19%      26%        19%       36%        26%      36%         26%
Total. Cost Before
{11S1intiI66sY                  1.53         .42     8.00       2.20       .56         .94       .61        1.38      .23        .06       .20        .06      .25        .40         16.84
Aa1gCop for
'U$ Siiiflions)                  .23         .06      .80         .22      -           -        .09          .21     -           -        _           _        _          _            1.61
tUs milliona)                   1.76         .48     8.80        2.42       .56        .94       .70        1.59      .23         .06      .20         .06     .25         *4         18.45
Allowceas for
Price Iazezase                                                                                                                                                    .9
tUf tiillions)                    .30        .36     2.29         .46      _           _         .18         .30      .06         .01      .07        .32      .39         .10          3.94
Total, Including
2.06        *54    11.09        2.88       .56         .94      .88         1.89     .29        .07       .27         .08      .34        .50         22.39
January 28, 1971
I 3
CD
ro



Table 3
YUGOSLAVIA
BERNARDIN TOURISM PROJECT
ESIIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
IBRD Fiscal Year                                 Cumulative Disbursemenu
and Quarter                                         at end of Quarter
(US$1000)
1971/72
March 31, 1972                                              436.3
June 30, 1972                                               773.2
1972/73
September 30, 1972                                       1,021.9
December 31, 1972                                        1,274.7
March 31, 1973                                            2,129.2
June 30, 1973                                             2,s459.6
1973/74
September 30, 1973                                        3,119.6
December 31, 1973                                         3,790.5
March 31., 1974                                          4h,472.5
June 30, 1974                                             5,572.1
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                        6,791.h
December 31, 1974                                         8,429.0
March 31, 1975                                            9,174.0
June 30, 1975                                             9,6Z7.5
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                        9,863.5
December 31, 1975                                        10,000.0
May, 1Q7].



Table 4
YUGOSLAVIA: BERNARDIN TOURISM PROJECT
Growth of Tourist Traffic to the Slovenian Coast 1963-69
1963                    1967                    1969
Number    Percent       Number    Percent       Number i   Percent
Domestic      423.8        54.1        380.7        37.3       490.0        37.9
Foreign        359.4       45.9        63865        62.7       800.0        62.1
Total       783.2       100.0     1,019.2       100.0      1,290.0       100.0
Source: Yugoslavia Statistical Yearbook



Table 5
Y[JGOSLAVTIA: BERNARDIN TOURISM PROJECT
Summary of the Financial Growth of Prehrana 1962-69
(D million)
Index
1962     %          1969        %     1962 = 100
Net Sales (less Sales Tax)        83.3   100.0      1,218.3    100.0       1,463
Gross Margin                       8.7    10.4        142.5      11.7      1,638
Net Operating Income               0.8     1.0         46.7       3.8      5,838
Net Profit After Tax               0.2     0.2         26.0       2.1     13,000
Net Book Assets                   56.3   100.0        441.6    100.0         665
Net Fixed Assets!.                11.9    21.1        113.2      25.6         951
Equity!!                           8.8                125.3                1,423
Equity as % of Total Assets       15.6                 28.3                   _
Net Long-term Debt/Equity        1.05:1               0.42:1
1/ Prehrana calculate that their net fixed assets (including land, buildings
and other physical assets) had a market value of D 215.4 million at the
end of 1969, and that if the assets were revalued on this basis the equity
would increase by about D 122 million over book value.
Source: Data collected by the Mission.



Table 6
YUGOSLAVIA: EERNARDIN TOURISM PROJECT
Summary of the Financial Growth of Agrokombinat 1962-69
(D million)
Index
1962     %         1969        %     1962 = 100
Net Sales                       105.0   100.0       407.6     100.0        388
Gross Margin                     99.2    94.5       322.3      79.1        325
Net Operating Income              1.1     1.1        33.4       8.2      3,036
Net Profit (Loss)                (2.0)     -         11.5       2.8        950
Total Assets                    143.8   100.0       373.7     100.0        260
Fixed AssetsV/                   75.7    52.6       189.7      50.8        251
Equity!/                          6.9                5.                    79
Equity as % of Total Assets       4.79               14.66
Net Long-term Debt/Equity Ratio
10.6:1              3.4:1
L/ Agrokombinat calculate that their net fixed assets (including land, build-
ings, and other physical assets) had a market value of D 258 million at
the end of 1969, and that if the assets were revalued on this basis the
equity would increase by about D 109 million over book value.
Source: Data collected by the Mission.



Annex 1
YUGOSLAVIA: BERNARDIN TOURISM PROJECT
MARKET ANALYSIS
A. Introduction
1.     At the apex of the Adriatic sea, the Slovenian coast together with the
neighboring shores of Italy's Venezia-Giulia are the closest Mediterranean
tourist destinations for residents of a large part of central Europe. In the
last decade, the impressive increase in accommodation capacity which took place
in Venezia-Giulia was promptly absorbed by demand, foreign and domestic alike.
2.     Venezia-Giulia's tourist "boom" can on the one hand be attributed to
the moderate prices prevailing in this region and on the other to the rapid
growth of beach-based tourism in central Europe. While Slovenian coast rates
are among the lowest in the Mediterranean basin, the desire for sunny, Mediter-
ranean vacations is expected in the coming years to penetrate still further
into the social layers of the originating markets. The tourist development
planned along the Slovenian coast in the seventies should thus prove as succes-
ful as that of Venezia-Giulia was in the sixties.
B. The Development of the Tourist Industry on the Slovenian Coast
Development of Supply
3.     The table below  shows the development of total accommodation capacity
in the Piran-Portoroz area and in the remainder of the Slovenian coast during
the period 1963-68:
Beds in All Kinds of Accommodation
Piran-Portoroz        Remainder of           Total
Year                          Area            Slovanian Coast   Slovenian Coast
1963                         7,545                  3,428            10,973
1964                         7,681                  4,099            11,780
1965                         8,150                 3,685             11,835
1966                         8,057                  3,963            12,020
1967                         8,630                 4,935             13,565
1968                         9,690                 5,024             14,714
Source:  Yugoslavia's Statistical Year Books



Annex 1
Page 2
The analysis of the 1969 hotel accommodation capacity by category (see
e below) indicates that this capacity is more select in Piran-Portoroz
in the other areas of the Slovenian coast.
Hotel Beds by Category in 1969
Piran-Porot .z--
gory                Area              Slovenian Coast         Slovenian Coast
1,183                                           1,183
1,070                   1,160                   2,230
d D                  274                     713                      987
Total       2,527                    1,873                   4,400
ce: Yugoslavia's Hotel Rates Year Book, 1970
To meet the requirements of excursion traffic, particularly heavy along
Slovenian coast (para. 13 following), hotels in that area have a large res-
'ant seating capacity. The ratio of such capacity to bed capacity varies
, three to ten in these hotels, as against a ratio of 2.8 (1966) for the
,age Yugoslav hotel.
With few exceptionsl/, operators on the Slovenian littoral either discon-
Le business completely in the period November-April or reduce it by means of
ing off some hotel wings or annexes. Portoroz's two major hotels, the
ce and Metro Lucia, operate during these months at about 50% and 18% of
.r potential capacity.
Defining seasons according to fluctuations in hotel rates is rendered
'icult by the fact that each hotel has its own policy in this connection.
Izola's Heliatum, Koper's Galeb and Portoroz's Metro Lucia, e.g., the high
on is 61 days from July 1 to August 31. For other hotels, such as Portoroz's
.ce and Koper's Triglav, the high season "stretches" to September 15, thus
.uding 77 days. Similar variations amongst hotels can be observed as regards
and low season. Mid and low season tariffs are generally about 20% and 40%
ectively off those prevailing in the high season.
The most noticeable is Koper's C category Triglav Hotel which, on account of
its proximity to the harbor, mainly caters to business-motivated traffic.



Annex 1
Page 3
Development of Demand
"Regular" Tourist Traffic
8.     The table below describes the development of total visitor bed/nights in
Piran-Portoroz and in the remainder of the Slovanian coast during the period
1963-69:
(Thousand bed/nights)
Piran-Portoroz      Remainder Slovenian Coast    Total Slovenian Coast
Year  Foreign  Domestic  Total   Foreign Domestic  Total   Foreign  Domestic  Total
1963   250.3     269.5  519.8    109.1    154.3  263.4   359.4    423.8   783.2
1964   293.8     290.5  584.3   121.8   152.4  274.2    415.6    442.9  858.5
1965   361.3     301.6  662.9   148.2   166.3  314.5   509.5    467.9  977.4
1966   427.4    277.7  705.1   184.3   140.2  324.5   611.7            417.9  1029.6
1967   436.1     232.1  668.2   202.4   148.6  351.0   638.5    380.7  1019.2
1968   462.0    255.2  717.2   200.8   170.2  371.0   662.8            425.4  1088.2
1969    n.a.      n.a.    n.a.     n.a.      n.a.    n.a.    800.0     490.0  1290.0
Source:  Yugoslavia's Statistical Year Books
In this period foreign bed/nights constantly increased.  The number of domestic bed/
nights, on the other hand, has remained practically unmodified even though a certain
revival was observed in its growth during the last two years. Consequently, a remark-
able change in the relative importance of the domestic and foreign components of
Slovenian littoral tourist traffic occurred in the period under consideration.
(Percentages)
- 1963                                        - 1968 -
Piran-Portoroz  Remainder of   Total Slov    Piran-Por-oroz  Remainder of   Total Slov
Area      Slovenian Coast   Coast             Area      Slovenian Coast   Coast
Foreign       48.1            41.4          45.9             64.4           54.2          60.9
Domestic      51.9            58.6          54.1             35.6           45.8          39.1
Total    100.0          100.0          100.0           100.0           100.0         100.0



Annex 1
Page h
The Piran-Portoroz area's higher proportion of foreign visitors (wealthier on the
average than Yugoslavs) as compared with the remainder of the Slovenian littoral
appears to be a confirmation of its better standards as a tourist resort.
9.     The table below, relating to 1968 bed/nights data, indicates that Western
Germany and neighboring Austria and Italy are the main suppliers of foreign tour-
ist traffic to both Portoroz and the remainder of the Slovenian littoral.
(Percentages)
Remainder of            Total
Portoroz    Slovenian Coast    Slovenian Coast
Western Germany                           41.2            22.8                33.5
Au.stria                                  21.1            27.1                23.6
Italy                                     11.6            15.7                13.4
Total                   73.9            65.6                70.5
Source: Prehrana's General Study on the Bernardin Complex
German tourists, wealthier on the average than Austrians or Italians, show a marked
preference for Portoroz and its more select accommodations.
10.    Slovenia itself supplies 89% of domestic traffic to Portoroz and 79% of
domestic traffic to the remainder of the Slovenian coast.
11.    Information available on the seasonal pattern of Slovenian coast tourist traf-
fic (see table below) shows that:
(i) the seasonality of tourist flows to the Slovenian coast is very
marked;
(ii)  in the period 1966-68, said seasonality did not undergo any sig-
nificant variation;
(iii)  domestic traffic's seasonality is somewhat higher than that of
foreign traffic, with the "gap" tending to increase over time.



Xnnex 1
Page 5
(Percentages)
- 1966 -                        - 1968 -
Domestic  Foreign    Total    Domestic  Foreign   Total
July-August                67.7       54.8       60.0      71.1       58.5     63.4
June-September             18.2       30.0       25.2      18.0       26.1      21.6
Sub-Total             85.9       84.8      85.2       89.1      84.6      85.0
Remainder of the Year      14.1       15.2       14.8      10.9       15.4      15.0
100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0    100.0
Source:  Prehrana's General Study on the Bernardin Complex
12.    Information provided by the August, 1967 National Survey on foreign tourism
indicates that the bulk of foreign tourists to the Slovenian coast travel by car
and in parties composed of two or more members. The majority of these tourists
remain for a period of between one and two weeks and spend, on an average,
US$ 8.50 per day.
13.    Given the type of interests offered by the Slovenian coast and the seasonal
pattern of the tourist traffic it attracts, there is no  doubt that this traffic
is by and large composed of beach oriented holiday makers. As for the limited
amount of business motivated traffic, it is mostly concentrated in Koper -- which
is at once the largest urban center in this area and the one with the most diver-
sified economy.
Excursion Traffic
14.    Aside from "regular"i foreign tourists spending at least one night in the
country, Yugoslavia enjoys the benefits of a substantial volume of foreign excur-
sion traffic. Partly because of the gradual easing of frontier formalities, excur-
sion traffic to Yugoslavia showed an extremely dynamic trend in the sixties as
indicated in the table below, which compares the development of total foreign
entries by road with that of total foreign "overnight" tourists.



Annex 1
Page b7
(Thousand)
Total                        Total
Foreign Entries        Foreign "10vernight" Visitors
by Road                   to Yugoslavia
1960                                 1,845                          873
1961                                 1,703                        1,080
1962                                 2,124                        1,242
1963                                 3,012                        1,753
1964                                 5,022                        2,227
1965                                10,231                        2,658
1966                                22,710                        3,437
1967                                29,425                        3,679
1968                                30,606                        3,887
1969                               36,340                         4,746
Source:  Yugoslavia's Statistical Yearbooks
15.    The number of excursionists who visited the Slovenian coast in 1967 can be
estimated at a minimum of 6 millionl/.  Almost all of this excursion traffic origi-
nates in Venezia-Giulia.
1/ This estimate is arrived at by taking into account:
(i)  that Slovenia as a whole reportedly accounted for about 90% of total
1967 border crossings to Yugoslavia by foreign visitors (or about
26.5 million in absolute figures)
(ii)  that as many as 33.4% of total 1967 foreign entries to Slovenia in
that year, or about 10.5 million in absolute figures, were registered
in Lazaret andSkofije, the two major border checkpoints in the Slove-
nian littoral region.
(iii)  that the number of regular tourists out of the total foreign visitors
across Lazaret and Skofijein 1967 could not possibly have been higher
than 3.7 million (i.e., the number of total foreign visitor arrivals
registered in all Yugoslav hotels).



Annex 1
Page 7
16.    A comparison of the monthly distribution of foreign border-crossings at
Lazaret and Skofije, with that of bed/nights registered in the Slovenian litto-
ral (see table below) clearly indicates that the seasonality of excursion traf-
fic is far less pronounced than the seasonality of "regular" traffic.
(Percentages)
Regular, Foreign Tourist Total Foreign Border Entries
Traffic to the Slovenian   across Lazaret and Skofije
Coast (1968)                    (1967)
January                              0.5                           5.9
February                             0.4                           6.1
March                                0.9                           7.2
April                                3.2                           7.5
May                                  4.7                           8.8
June                                15.0                           8.6
July                                27.9                          14.0
August                              30.6                          11.3
September                           11.1                           7.2
October                              3.8                           6.9
November                             0.9                           9.7
December                             1.0                           6.8
Total             100.0                         100.0
Source:  Prehrana's General Study on the Bernardin Complex
17.    Although no quantification is possible on the basis of available statistics,
the volume of domestic excursion traffic along the Slovenian littoral must be con-
siderable. Supporting factors for this assumption are:



Annex 1
Page o
(i)  the proximity of the Slovenian littoral to a number of
fairly populous centers including Ljubijana, Marimor,
Celje, Kranj, etc.
(ii) Slovenia's per capita income and motorization index,
although still far from the levels reached in Western
Europe are markedly higher than those prevailing in
the rest of Yugoslavia (see table 1).
Comparison of Supply with Demand
Accommodation in General
18.    A confrontation of the development of accommodation capacity with that of
traffic shows that demand and supply have grown in the Piran-Portoroz area (as
well as in the remainder of the Slovenian littoral) at about the sam pace. Con-
sequently, the average occupancy level of accommodation as a whole has remained
practically unchanged.
Piran-Portoroz                  Remainder of Slovenian Littoral
Theoreticalt'   Nights  Occu-            Theoretical;'   Nights  Occu-
Capacity      Spent   psncy              Capacity       Spent   pancy
Beds  ('000 overnight)  ('000)   (%)    Beds  ('000 overnight)  ('000)   (%)
1963         7,545         2,754        519.8   18.8  3,428          1,251        263.4  21.0
1964         7,681         2,804        584.3   20.8  4,099         1,496         274.2   18.3
1965         8,150         2,975        662.8   22.3  3,685         1,345         314.5  23.4
1966         8,057         2,941        705.1   24.0  3,963         1,446         324.5   22.4
1967         8,630         3,150        668.2   21.2  4,935         1,801         351.0  19.5
1968         9,690         3,537        717.2   20.2  5,024         1,834         371.0  20.2
1/  Number of beds multiplied by 365, i.e. the number of days in the year.
Source: Tables under paras. 3 and 9 preceding.



Annex 1
Page 9
Hotel Accommodation in Particular
19.   Data reported in the General Study of the Bernardin Complex indicate that
the bed occupancy of hotels along the Slovenian coast remained unchanged during
the period 1965-68, at a level of about 35% (see table 2). Portoroz hotels in
1968 were somewhat above this average, with an occupancy rate of 39%.
20.   According to information acquired directly by the mission whilst in the
field, recent rates of utilization of the most representative hotels in the
Piran-Portoroz area were as follows:
Occupancy Rates (%)
Hotel                Category        Beds        1967       196b        1969
Palace                      A/B            644         44         44          48
Metro Lucia                  A             814                     38         43
Central Riviera              B             500         35         32
Piran                        B             124                    47
From these figures it appears that in 1969 the average yearly occupancy of the
Palace and Metro Lucia combined (the only two A class hotels on the Slovenian
coast) was about 45%.
21.   The table following shows the monthly occupancy levels recorded by the
Palace and Metro Lucia hotels in the year 1969 and in the period June 30, 1969
to May 31, 1970 respectively.



Annex 1
Page 10
(Percentages)
Months                                   Metro Lucia Hotel      Palace Hotel
January                                                2                   7
February                                               1                   8
March                                                   9                 19
April                                                 12                  48
May                                                   64                  65
June                                                  93                  85
July                                                  95                  88
August                                                99                  99
September                                             85                  81
October                                               47                  46
November                                               3                  11
December                                               5                  11
Year                                                  43                  48
The Impact of Excursion Traffic on Hotel Accommodation
22.    Quite naturally the high volume of excursion traffic along the Slovenian
coast has had a considerable impact on hotel sales. This is particularly the
case of those hotels which have a large restaurant seating capacity.
23.    To determine the order of magnitude of this impact, a comparison has been
made in Table 3 between the total receipts/number of overnights ratio of Slove-
nian littoral hotels and that of hotels located in other parts of the Yugoslav
coast. All hotels have of course been selected from among those with similar
rate structures. The comparison shows that receipts per overnight are remark-
ably higher (from 25 to 30% on the average) in the Slovenian littoral hotels.
24.    An alternate approach for the quantification of excursion traffic expendi-
ture in the case of the Palace Hotel is based on data relating to the daily num-
ber of overnights and of gross receipts, registered in this hotel in 1969. By
averaging this data for each day of the week throughout the entire year, the fol-
lowing series are evolved.



Annex 1
Page 11
Mon.    Tues.    Wed.    Thurs.    Fri.    Sat.    Sun.
No. of Overnights         292       297     299       310      306      334     307
Gross Receipts             34.8      31.1    36.3      34.8      36.7    46.3    46.3
('000 Dinars)
25.    These figures show that both the number of overnights and the volume of
receipts are greater on weekend days than on week days. However, due to the
expenditure of excursion tourism -- the main bulk of which naturally tends to be
concentrated in weekend days -- the increase in gross receipts is considerably
larger. The difference between the actual volume of weekend gross receipts and
what this volume would have been had it increased only in proportion to overnights
accounts for 6.6% of Palace Hotel average weekly gross receipts.
Gross Receipts
No. of overnights   ('000  Dinars)
Total week days                                        1,504              173.7
Average week day (above divided by 5)                    301               34.7
Total of weekend days                                    641               91.3
Average weekend days (above divided by 2)                320               45.6
Index of average weekend day, average
week day = 100                                         106.3            131.4
Weekly Total                                           2,145              265.0
share of gross receipts ascribable to excursion traffic =
265.0 - (173.7 + (34.7 x 106.3 x 2)) 100 = 6.6%
265.0
However, inasmuch as (i) some of the excursion traffic does occur on weekdays as
well and (ii) there are in neighboring Italy a great number of legal holidays
aside from the weekends, this percentage should be regarded only as a minimum
value with respect to the actual share of gross receipts ascribable to excursion
traffic.



Annex 1
Page 12
C. Market Prospects for the Bernardin Complex
Planned Development of Accommodation Capacity
26.    There are no plans for expanding either the capacity of the Slovenian
coast's existing supplementary accommodation or that of C and D class hotels.
On the other hand, based on projectsat various stages of advancement, current
estimates envisage that L, A and B capacity in the Piran-Portoroz area and in
the remainder of the Slovenian coast will develop as follows over the next five
years:
No. of beds
Remainder of
Piran-Portoroz           Slovenian Coast         Total Slovenian Coast
- L  - - A    - B -  Total   L  A  - B -  Total   - L - - A -  - B -  Total
1969   -   1,045  1,070  2,115   -  - 1,160  1,160        -    1,045  2,230  3,275
1970   -    1,665  1,970  3,635   -  - 1,160  1,160       -    1,665  3,130  4,795
1971   -    2,025  2,130  4,155   -  - 1,160  1,160       -    2,025  3,290  5,315
1972   -    2,025  2,330  4,355   -  -  2,620  2,620      -    2,025  4,950  6,975
1973   -    2,025  3,570  5,595   -  -  2,620  2,620      -    2,025  6,190  8,215
1974   -    2,025  3,570  5,595   - -  2,620  2,620       -    2,025  6,190  8,215
1975- 400  4,125  3,890  8,415   -  -  2,620  2,620       400  4,125  6,510 11,035
Source:  Privedna's estimates, based on existing plans
27.   These figures indicate (i) that the development of hotel capacity along
the Slovenian coast will, in the coming years, proceed at a markedly faster
pace than in the sixties, (ii) that the major increase (in absolute figures)
will take place in 1975, when the Bernardin complex opens, (iii) that Portoroz
will substantially raise its share of the Slovenian coast total hotel accommo-
dation capacity and (iv) that the addition of 2,500 L class beds, brought about
1/ includes Bernardin.



Annex 1
Page 13
by the implementation of the Bernardin complex, will result in a substantial
upgrading of the market supply along the Slovenian coast in general and in the
Piran-Portoroz area in particular.
The Outlook for the Expansion of the Originating Markets
Foreign Tourist Market
28.    As pointed out in paragraph 9 preceding, pleasure motivated visitors
originating in Germany, Austria and Italy make up about 70% of foreign tourist
traffic to the Slovenian littoral. Most probably, these three countries will
retain their position as major tourist suppliers of the Slovenian coast in the
future.
29.    Given the low prices prevailing along the Slovenian coast, the relatively
short distances involved,L/and the possibility of easy and economical travel by
car, a vacation there for residents of the above countries is about as inex-
pensive as a domestic vacation.
30.    Pleasure motivated tourist demand originating in Italy is likely to con-
tinue growing at the same rate observed in recent years, this market being far
from "saturation."
31.    Because the propensity to traveIl/has already reached considerable levels
in Germany and in Austria, the development pace of the tourist demand originating
in these countries is likely to slow down in the coming years.
32.    Even though to'lrism traffic generated by Germany and Austria combined will
not grow fast, the number of "new" tourists to be produced by these countries in
the next decade will still be considerable in bsolute figures. Accordit-g to a
study carried out by the University of Munich3 total tourists generated by
Western Europe will increase by 30 million, from an estimated 99.3 million in
1970 to an estimated 129.1 in 1980. Germany and Austria will account for
approximately one-third of this increase, or about 10 million additional tourists.
33.    A relatively large part of the future tourist demand originating in
Germany and Austria is bound to show interest in the Slovenian Coast. The
soundness of this assumption is attested to by:
L/  Partic lLar5Ly for Souhthern (jermany, Austria and Northern Italy.
,/  Defined ao the proportion of the population which takes one or more holidays
di ring the year.
3/  P-roblems or' tourism for selected countries in thie Mediterranean area.



Annex 1
(i)  the growing importance of sun and beach oriented vacation
as compared with other types of vacations (e.g. culture
motivated and sightseeing), particularly among central
and northern Europeans;
(ii)  the growing importance of family and price-conscious
vacationers (as against elite and individual tourists) --
a type of vacationer who naturally shows preference for
destinations like the Slovenian coast -- inexpensive and
easily reached by car;
(iii)  the congestion point reached in the "peak" season by the
Italian Northern Adriatic littoral, the natural alternative
to the Slovenian coast for economical seaside vacations for
residents of Germany and Austria -- a congestion point
which will prevent any large increases in the nccommodation
capacity of this part of the Italian coast.
Domestic Tourist Market
34.    Although from 1963 to 1967 per capita income in Yugoslavia grew at a
considerable rate (approximately 5% growth-rate in constant prices) domestic
pleasure motivated traffic as measured by national visitor overnights in all
Yugoslav resorts was stagnant. With some fluctuations, domestic tourist bed-
nights in these resorts passed from 9,492 million in 1963 to 10,422 million in
1967. More recently, however, domestic pleasure motivated tourism to seaside
resorts has shown a sudden upsurge, with the number of bednights rising to
12,650 million in 1969 from the 1967 level (at an average growth-rate for the
two years of about 10%). The impact of this upsurge was also evident along
the Slovenian coast, as pointed out in para. 8 preceding.
35.    Although it is too soon to draw any definite conclusions, this trend
may be related to the fact that per capita income in Yugoslavia has reached
the threshold at which pleasure motivated domestic tourist demand becomes in-
creasingly "income-sensitive." Even assuming that this threshold has not yet
been reached, and the 1967-69 upsurge proves to be incidental, it is likely to
be attained within the next 7 or 8 years, as per capita income dlimbs from the
present level of $600 to $850 in 1975. Accordingly the time ha4 either come,
or will soon come, for domestic Yugoslav tourism to develop rapidly.
Excursion Market
36.    The potential market for excursion traffic to the Slovenian coast will
no doubt continue to expand in future as a result of improvement of economic
conditions and increasing popularity of the two-day weekend in Slovenia itself
and in neighboring Italy's Venezia-Giulia. It follows that the increase in
facilities such as restaurants, nightclubs, beach accommodations, etc. scheduled



Annex 1
Page 13
on the Slovenian coast should be matched by a parallel development in the ex-
cursionists' demand. Such an expansion, however, will actually occur only if
the Slovenian coast road network -- at present highly congested (see para. 4.02
of the main report) -- is substantially improved._/
The Bernardin Complex: Concept, Seasons and Rates
37.    With the Bernardin complex, Slovenian planners clearly aim at upgrading
tourism along the Slovenian coast.  This policy appears justified in that:
(i) The scarcity of land and beach space will most probably
prevent any substantial expansion of accommodation capacity
beyond the expected 1975 level -- any further increase in
the benefits from tourism thus resting on the possibility
of attracting more selected visitors.
(ii) The present pressure of demand against existing supply in
the season (see para. 45 following) and the favorable out-
look for the expansion of the originating markets seem to
provide a sound basis for the upgrading of accommodation.
38.    As no major change in seasonality is expected in the foreseeable future,
seasons for Bernardin have been defined on the basis of those currently adopted
by comparable hotels. More specifically, Bernardin's high season would extend
from July 1 to September 15, (77 days); mid season would include the second
half of September, October, May and June (107 days); low season would cover the
remainder of the year (182 days).
39.    Because of its compound structure, the projected complex will be in the
pocition of easily adjusting its capacity to traffic volumes in each season of
the year. Current plans envisage that the hotel section (400 beds) will be open
year-round, whereas the annex section (2,100 beds) will be cloced during the low
season.
40.    As mentioned in the main report (para. 3.07), building, decoration and
service standards of the Bernardin complex will be far superior than those of
existing hotels on the Slovenian coast.
1/  That these improvements are essential for the growth of the excursion
traffic is pointed out by: (i) the very nature of excursion traffic
which by definition is pressed for time; (ii) the existence of several
seaside resorts along the Italian northern Adriatic coast which, on the
one hand, are linked up by excellent roads and on the other, are just
as interesting excursion points as those along the Slovenian coast;
and (iii) the fact thaL even domestic excursion traffic originating in
the Slovenian inland itself, is offered plenty of options farther down
thle T-I,rian coast -- a region which cart be reached at present by
companralJv-(ly Iess c( r-gested roads.



Annex 1
Page 16
41.    On account of its abundance of space in general and beach space in
particular, the Bernardin complex will be able to offer, to a greater extent
than any of its direct competitors, pro-dmity to water, uncrowded beaches and
unspoiled natural surroundings.  It will thus be most in line with the re(luire-
ments of the tourist traffic to the Slovenian coast which, as indicated under
para. 13 preceding, io predominated by pleasure motivated, beach based visitors.
The very fact that the complex is relatively far from any urban centers will
probably be regarded by these tourists as a "plus" rather than as a "minus."
42.    Apart from its location and extensive seafront, the number, size and
speciality of its auxilliary facilities will make Bernardin attractive to
excursionists as well.
43.    Unequalled by any hotel along the Slovenian coast, the Bernardin complex
will be comparable only to the very best accommodations existing in Slovenia,
such as the hotels Ambassador (Opatia) and Golf (Bled). Basing its judgement
on the rates current in these hotels, the Mission suggests that the tariff
structure of the Bernardin hotel be as follows:
FULL BOARD IN DOUBLE BED ROOM
(US$)U
Hotel     Annex
High Season                16.00      13.00
Mid Season                 13.00      11.00
Low Season                 11.00
Forecast of Occupancy Levels of the Slovenian Coast Accommodation
44.    Despite the substantial planned increase in hotel capacity along the
Slovenian coast, accommodation occupancy rates are likely to remain at the same
levels experienced at present -- a forecast implying a demand growth proportion-
ate to that of supply. Supporting factors for this view include:
(i)  The favorable outlook as regards the increase of lower
spending, beach oriented segments of the Austrian and
German tourist markets, combined with the consideration
of the saturation point reached by Italy's Northern
Adriatic coast, the only comparable alternate onlitlet"
for these markets. (See preceding section).



Annex 1
Page 17
(ii) The fact that the volume of additional demand implied
by the forecast under consideration is only a small
fraction of the increase in the originating markets.
(iii) The fact that current hotel occupancy is almost
entirely ascribable to summer demand, the full
potentiality of which exceeds the existing supply (see
para. 45 following).
(iv)  The past development of several tourist resorts
(examples of which are given on both sides of the
Adriatic) where hotel occupancy has remained unchanged
despite considerable increases in accommodation
capacity.
45.    The assumption that tourist traffic to the Slovenian coast in general
will grow as a linear function of supply appears to be applicable for each
year from 1969 to 1974 -- a period during which the Slovenian coast's total
supply will, according to plan, increase at about the same rate as that
experienced in the previous five years. In the following period, however,
because of the large increase in hotel accommodation capacity from 1974 to
1975, the adjustment of demand to supply is unlikely to occur immediately.
The Mission has formulated the hypothesis that demand will catch up with supply
in three years.
46.    The high occupancy rates attained by Slovenia's coastal hotels during
the summer months underline the assertion that bookings requested by a number
of touirists who had intended to spend their vacation along that coast have been
turned away. However, such booking requests, actually registered and subse-
quently refused, make up only one segment of the potential demand for the
Slovenian coast. Total potential demand must also include those tourists who
have never thought of the Slovenian coast either because they knew of its
"no-vacancy" problem during the summer months or because they were unaware of
its attractions -- tourists who, on the other hand, would have been drawn to
the area had its hotel capacity been greater and its promotional activities
consequently more intense. Given the relatively slow increase scheduled for
the Slovenian coast's accommodation capacity from 1970 to 1974, on the one hand,
and the favorable development prospects for the originating markets, on the
other, the volume of potential demand should remain unchanged during those
years.  It will thus cast its full impact in the following period.
)4Y.    The projected increase in tourist traffic will not be evenly distributed
over the years 1-'3-l5177, since the favorable impact of potential demand will
tend to be concentrated at the beginning of this period. Accordingly the
Mission has assumed Lhat the years 1975, 1976 and 1977 will take up 7(,, 20 and
10% respectively of said increase.  This assumption implies that the occupancy
rate of first class accommodation along the Slovenian coast -- both existing
and planned -- be approximately 39% in 1(975 and 43Z in 1976. In 1977 (typical
year) it should then reach the current average level of 45% (see para. 20
preceding).



Annex 1
Page 18
Seasonal Adjustments of Occupancy TLevels
)48.    In forecasting the seasonal pattern of Bernardin complex occupancy Ivvel;,
consideration should be given to the following factors:
(i)  Social institutions in LTe originating markets (e.g.
school and the majority of industrial vacations
restricted to summer) responsible for the current
seasonality of tourist traffic to the Mediterranean
area in general are unlikely tc. change in the coming
years.
(ii) The occupancy seasonal pattern of the Bernardin
complex is likely to reflect the seasonal occupancy
pattern currently experienced by Metro Lucia, rather
than that of the Palace Hotel. While both the
Metro Lucia and the Bernardin hotel (when it oDens)
are relatively far from urban centers, neither of
them will have the off season weekend residential
traffic which the Palace Hotel enjoys on account of
its Casino.
(iii) The lower utilization of accommodation expected in
1975 and 1976 as compared with that of the previous
period, or with that of the typical year, will affect
only mid and low seasons, since in the high season
hotels will enjoy the favorable impact of potential
demand which is naturally concentrated in the summer
months.
49.    Based on these considerations, the assumptions formulated by the Mission
in determining the Bernardin complex occupancy levels over the period 1975-1977
are as follows:
(i)  High season occupancy levels will stand at 95% through-
out the period under consideration.
(ii)  Tlid and low seasons' occupancy levels will be such as
to (a) satisfy the condition set forth under (i) above,
(b) maintain the same proportion to each other as mid
and low season occupancy levels of Metro Tucia hotel
had in 1969, and (c) be compatible with the yearly
occupancy levels forecast for each single year (see
para. 47 above).
50.    The breakdown of the seasonal occupancy levels of the complex as a whole
between its hotel and annex sections, is based on the assumptions that (i) the
hotel section will be operating year round while the annex section will be closed
off in the low season and (ii) both the hotel and the annex sections will have
the same occupancy in high and mid seasons.



Annex 1
Page 19
51.    The resultant occupancy levels, broken down by type, season and year,
are as follows:
(Percentages)
High     Mid     Low      Year
Hotel Section
1975              9N        53      25      48
1976              95        68      32       56
1977              95        75      37      60
Annex Section
1975              95        53      -        36
1976              95        68      -40
1977              95        75      -       42
Total Complex
1975               95       53       4       38
1976               95       68       5       43
1977              95        75       6       45






Arii-!x 2
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA:  BERJARDIN TOURISM PROJECT
ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
Introduction
1.     The quantifiable net benefits from the project consist primarily
of visitors' expenditures within the project complex itself less the
costs (excluding depreciation, taxes and interest payments) of operating
the project. An important characteristic of the benefits is that 90%
of them consist of foreign exchange. The relevant investment is the
capital cost of the project itself plus the share of external infrastruc-
ture properly chargeable to the project.
2.     In addition to the costs and benefits generated within the Bernar-
din Complex, the project will produce additional costs and benefits out-
side the project's physical and accounting boundaries. The treatment of
these external effects is explained in paras 10-14 below.
Costs, Revenues, and Economic Life of the Project
3.     So far as the Bernardin Complex itself is concerned, the economic
benefits and costs are derived from the project's financial accounts
(Annex 3). Depreciation, interest and taxes are excluded from economic
costs. However, part of the costs of improving external infrastructure
is added to the investment costs of the complex.
4.     In order to provide easier access to the Slovenian coast, the road
network in the area needs to be improved.  The share of costs of improv-
ing the network properly attributable to the project has been estimated
to be about US$900,000.
5.     The costs an(d revenues of the project are expected to be distributed
over time as follows:



Annex 2
Page 2
(US$ Million)
TotalI/
Investment Costs    Investment Cost   Investment   Operating        Operating
Year     Bernardin Complex          Roads           Costs        Costs        Revenues
1             1.78                                  1.78           -
2             3.35                   -             3.35           -
3             4.39                  0.45           4.84            -
4            11.71                  0.45           12.36           -             _
5             2.67                                  2.67         4.41           6.63
6              -                                     -           4.71           7.27
7-29           _                     _                           4.85           7.59
Total Investment Cost:                                  US$ 24.32
1/  Excludes US$ 1.68 million for interest during construction, but includes
US$ 0.9 million for roads.
2/ Operating costs before taxes, depreciation, interest and dividends.
6.        The project facilities and equipment have varying economic lives, but
as a whole it is estimated that the project would have an economic life of about
25 years. The need to make modest provision for some replacement expenditures
during this period is considered to be offset by the life of the main assets
beyond 25 years.
Rate of Return
7.        Based on the above estimates, the internal economic return on the proj-
ect comes out at 9.0. This is not, however, the "best estimate" of the project's
true profitability to the economy. A key price in this calculation is the exchange
rate used (i.e. D 15.0 = US$ 1.0, the official rate after the recent devaluation).
Sensitivity Analysis
8.        The project's economic return has been subjected to sensitivity tests,
with the results shown in the following table:



Annex 2
Page 3
Resulting Rate of Return
i. Foreign Exchange Rate
(Instead of US$ 1.0 = D 15.0)
(a)  US$ 1.0 = D 18.0                                          13.3
ii.  Annual Occupancy Rate (instead of 45%)
(a)  43%                                                        8.7
iii.  Opening Date (1 year delay, i.e., 1976 not 1975)                 8.4
iv.  Most Adverse Combination of Above Factors                        7.7
v.  Thost ravoriblc Combination of Above Yactors                   13.3
It is clear that the rate of return is most sensitive to a change in the value
of foreign exchange and, to a lesser extent, to changes in occupancy levels.
A combination of the least favorable assumptions yields a rate of return of
almost 8%.
9.    Assuming a value of US$ 1.0 = D 18.0, the internal economic return comes
out at 13%. This figure may be considered the '?best estimate" (the calculation
assumes 1975 as the opening date and an average annual occupancy of 45%).
External or Off-Site Effects
1(.   The project wi:Ll have both direct and indirect externaL effects.  The
direct offects are defined as expenditures of Bernardin guests outside the
complex, while the indirect are a result of induced investnent, especially
in infrastructure, not paid for directly by Bernardin guests.  These are fur-
ther described below.



Annex 2
Page 4
Direct Effects
11.    As a result of the proposed investment in Bernardin, foreign and Yugo-
slav airlines and other modes of transportation are expected to increase their
activities and their earnings.  This will also he the case with retail shops,
restaurants and the like outside the Bernardin complex.  These services wil 1
be paid for directly by the tourist in addition to what he spends on food,
accoimnodation, etc. within the complex itselY.  Total gross earnings of the
Yugoslav economy will be substantially greater thanr those of the complex it-
self.
12.    These additional revenues, however, result not only frDm the invest-
ment in and operation of Bernardin, but also from investment in and operation
of other facilities. Because of the number of "other facilities" required to
serve the needs of the visitor, it has not beer. possible to estimate the addi-
tional capital and operating costs required to generate these extra revenues.
13.    However, it is likely that there would be a better utilization of
existing capacity as well as an expansion of present facilities and the net
benefits of the former would properly be ascribable to the investment in Ber-
nardin.  To this extent, the benefits of the project in the rate of return
analysis are understated.
Indirect Effects
14.    Investment in Bernardin would result in the need for expansion and
improvement of roads.  The roads involved, however, are:
(i)  projects to serve not only the Bernardin Complex but
other needs of the area; and
(ii) the projects would be required anyway in the future
and the investment in Bernardin only accelerates this
need.
The share of the estimated investment chargeable to Bernardin has been given
above (para. 4).
Balance of Payments Impact
15.    By the time it is fully operational, the proposed project would increase
gross foreign exchange earnings from tourism by US$ 6.o million, net of tour-
ist transportation. This compares with the official estimate of US$ 310.0
million earned by the sector in 1969, but which includes foreign exchange
earnings from tourist transportation.
16.    Because of the high proportion of foreign tourists, and the low import
content of operating costs, the estimated net foreign exchange earnings of



Annex 2
Page 5
the project are relatively high. When the project is fully operational the
annual costs in foreign exchange are estimated at US$ 0.62 million on operat-
ing account with US$ 0.67 million of capital charges. Thus the net foreign
exchange earnings in 1977 and subsequent years would be US$ 5.5 million,
which compares with the estimated foreign exchange component in total invest-
ment costs of US$ 6.9 million, including price contingencies.






Annex 3
YUGOSLAVIA: BERNARDIN TOURISM PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Operating Results
1.     Table 1 of this annex presents the forecast of Operating Results over
the first 16 years of the project. This forecast is based on Revenue and
Cost assumptions which are described below.
Revenue Assumptions
2.     Total revenues include income from hotel guests and non-resident
guests. Hotel revenue comprises income from rooms, food, beverage, other
operating departments and miscellaneous sales. Room and food income from
hotel guests is based on full pension tariffs and the projected bed occupancy
in each category of the complex. The full pension tariffs and occupancy
levels for a typical year are indicated below:&
Projected Occupancy and Full Pension Tariffs
Full Pension         Expected
Category             Season                  Tariffs  US$     Occupancy Rates %
Hotel                High                         16.00               95
Mid                         13.00               75
Low                         11.00               37
Annex                 High                        13.00               95
Mid                         11.00               75
1/  The average anLual hotel occupancy rate for this typical year is 45%.
The annual occupancy rates expected during the first two years of opera-
tion are 38% and 1h3%, respectively. The tariff structure is the same
for all years.
2/ These tariffs are dollar equiva-Lents of dinar rates inFlated to take
account of the price increases expec-ted to occur up to i/.



Annex 3
Page 2
3.     Food income from hotel guests has been estimated on an assuimed
food component of the full pension tariffs varying only with the cate-
gory. This component is $6.70 per day for hotel guests and $)t.80 per
day for the guests in the Annexes.
4.     Food income from non-resident guests irn the different rostaur-
ants is based on the amount of the average check and the t.ota1 number
of covers served.  For a typical year the breakdowrn is as follows:
Average
Check     Covers
Hotel Restaurant
Non Residents         $ 4.00     32,250
Central Restaurant      $ 3.35    115,200
Self Service            $ 1.68     76,800
Cafe                    $ 0.27     85,680
5.     Beverage sales to hotel guests are assumed to amount to $ 2.01
per guest per day for the hotel and $ 1.07 per guest per day for the
Annexes.
6.     Beverage sales to non-resident guests comprise beverage consumed
in the various restaurants and cafe and at the other places e.g. the
bars within the hotel and on the beach. For the central restaurant, the
self-service restaurant and the cafe, beverage sales per cover have been
assumed at $ 1.07 for the central restaurant, $0.80 for the self-service
restaurant and $1.07 for the cafe. In addition an amount of $ 26,800
has been assumed for the total beverage sales in all other outlets.
7.     The income from other selling points which include dances, the
nightclub and the pastry shop is based on the amount of the average check
and the number of covers served as indicated below:



Annex 3
Page 3
Average
Other Operating Departments           Check         Covers
Dances                               $ 3.35         18,000
Night Club                           $ 6.70         21,900
Pastry Shop                          $  o.80        44,o64
8.     Miscellaneous sales which consist of income from laundry, dry-
cleaning, the newspaper and tobacco shops are assumed to amount to 10%
of the total sales in the rooms department, food and beverage depart-
ment and the night club.
9.     Income from store rentals, parking and recreational facilities
have been estimated at $207,700 per year.
Cost Assumptions
10.    Total operating costs include the direct and indirect expenses
attributable to all departments.
11.    Direct material costs for food, beverage and other items sold
within the complex have been calculated as follows: (a) food costs have
been estimated at 42.5% of all food sales; (b) beverage costs are esti-
mated to average 30% of sales; (c) the cost for the material consumed in
the other departments is estimated at 33-1/3% of sales at the dances; at
20% of sales in the night club, at 1X0% of sales in the pastry shops and
at 4O% of sales for miscellaneous sales.
12.    Payroll costs for the hotel complex are expected to he 1)% of to a i
revenues in the typical year of operation.  This percentage reflects Ole
relatively low wages of semi- and unskilled workers in Yugoslavia.
1j.    In(direct costs whtich are estimated at 22.5% of total revenues
inCclude' the rol. Lowing items:
Administrative and General Expenses
Advertising and Sales
Travel Agency (Cormmission
hleat, Tight and Power
Maintenance and Repairs
Laundry



Annex 3
P ape 4 
14.    Average depreciation on total assets is about 4.3% per year.  Iaild-
ings and site development are depreciated over 50 years, heavy and light
equipment and miscellaneous supplies over 10, 5 and 3 years, respectively.
The professional fees and the project office are both amortized over 25
years. Pre-opening and staff training expenses are amortized in equal
installments over the first five years of operation.
15.    Interest before subsidy has been calculated at 7-1/4% on the IBRRD
loan and at 5% on the Yugoslav loan. These rates are subsidized by the
Slovenian authorities at 2-1/2% for both loans over the period of loan
amortization. Amounts of gross interest payable and subsidies receivable
are shown separately in the Financial Projections.
16.    Interest during construction is capitalized for the Yugoslav loan
for five years whereas the interest and other charges on the IBRD loan
are capitalized for four years, which seems adequate.
17.    It has been agreed during negotiations that 40,4  of the annual net
profit of Bernardin will be paid to Nnona as dividend.  It has also been
agreed that no less than 35iD of the annual net profit will be retained
within Berrarlir to build up equit,y.  Thie; allocatiori of the balance of
2'Y  of the annual net proCit will be at the d{ scretion of th,1e `Vernardir,
lq1siress Committee.  A rrojecrLed Plirancial Posit,on ,Stat,erient ard r-
nrojected Cash J'Tow Statement, based on the forecase of onerati-r- res>fit,s,
are presented below as Tables 2 a-id 3 attached.



YUG,OSLAIA - E_A"Dto r    ThI5M PqDJECT
PROJECTED PNZwF2 AND LOSS SrATSMe--NT
(U0$ Yillion)
year      er          31:                           1975      1976     1977     1978      1979     1980     1981      1982     1983      198L     1985     1986      1        1938     1989      1990
O~~~ralz~~~~~~il 2ear ~~~~~~1                     2        3                                    -7F        T        9       1W0      11         2      T3         ~
_2-zs .o~'ev:es                                     6.63      7.28     7.60     7.60      7.60     7.60     7.60      7.60     7.60      7.60     7.c6     7.60      7.60     7.60      7.60     7.60
Loess O-  ting Costst
a>-e-^a:                                          1.52      1.68     1.75     1.75      1.75     1.75     1.75      1.75     1.75      1.75     1.75     1.75      1.75     1.75      1.75     1.75
Payrll1                                           1.i03     1l.8 1.488 1.0              114 123           i.48      12t8     12.       1248     18          0      10       1.L       1.L8     1.8LB
Ini4rect >sts                                     1-.1      1.56     1.63     1.63      1.63     1.63     1.63      1.63     1.63     1.63      1.63     1.63      1.63     1.63     1.63      1.63
Turnover :ax                                      0.'3      01L4    0.15      0.15      0.15     0.15     0.15      0.15     0.15      0.15     0.15     0.15      0.15     0.15      0.15     0.15
"5"      4.86     5.0         o 01   5- 01         L.C1 501                 01 5.01 5.01     5 01 501 501 5.01 ig                  0::        .
COe.rat-g Profit                                    2.09      2 .12    2.59     2.59      2.59     2.59     2.59      2.59     2.59      2.59     2.59      2.59     2.59     2.59      2.59     2.59
!eAs: Depreciat'on ard Anortization of              1.13      1.18     1.18     1.18      1.18     1.01     1.01      1.01     1.01      1.01     1.01     1.01      1.01     1.01      1.01     1.01
Deferred 1xpense3
Net Prfit Before Interest                           0.91      1.24     1.41     1.141     l.Ll      1.        58      1.58     1.5a      1 ~8    1.58       L.58     1.5a     1.58      1 .58    1.58
-e 9: 9'5erest                                      0.73      1.22     1.19      1.16     1.13     1.10     2.06      1.02     0.98      0.94     0.89      0.35     0.79     0.l7      0.67     0.61
Net Prof:t After Interest                           9.23      0.02     0.22     0.25      0.28     0.148    0.52      0.56     o.60      o.64     0.69     0.73      0.79     0.3O      0.91     0.97
A:e:                                                                                                                  0.95-  .  .  0o    _  .4    o.Do  0.39   1.T   0.33      1.1T     0.29     0.2
'e- Froflt After Subsidy                            0.13      0.52     0.71     0.72      0.714    0.93     0.95      0.98     1.00      1.03     1.06      1.08     1.12     1.15      1.19     1.23
Ci= 'e-.as to  -ra ' )                                -       0.21     0.28      0.29     0.30     Q.37      0.38     0.39      0.40     o.L4    0.142      0.L3     o.145     r .L     0.148 -.1 Q
AM'1zct'-n by r:sfne3s C07rr-ttOs (257)           _           0.13      0.13     0.18     C.18      .        0.214    0.25      0.25     0.26   C ,2        0.27  C.93        22 2.
S  7 t                                                 C) 0.34    0o.46  0.47      0.48     0.61     o.62      o.64     o.65      0.67     0.69      0.70     0.73     0.75      0.78     0.80
a  e4 _a-lnr.e g s ('S)                       0.13     0.18      0.25     0.25      0.26     0.32     0.33      0.34     0.35      0.36     0.37     0.38      0.39     o.L0      0.41     0.43
2-r2'a:;ve P.etained laxnings                       o.;8      0.36     0.61  o .86        1.12     1.44     1.77      2.11     2.46      2.82     3.19     3.57      3.96      4.36     4.77     5.20
7eturn on Cotal Lrvestment (%)I/                    3.6       4.8      5.5       5.5      5.5      6.2       6.2      6.2      6.2       6.2      6.2       6.2      6.2      6.2       6.2      6.2
N1 Net profit before interest and dividend
yaw, 1971
-3 
HIxO
1D



YUGOSLAVIA - 3BRL4AOITN .Ob-I31 PROJECT
PROJLCTED F9liiCIAL POSITION
(Ub--! :41illion )
Year Ending December 31:                        1974     19,75    1976     1977    1978    1979    1980    1931    1982         1983     1984    i785      i9&6     1937     i938     ;989    199G
Operational Year                                  0        1                 T       T c                                           T                                 13       -
Current Assets
Cash                                                    .66     2.90     3.71     4.65     3.79     4.41    5.16     5.89     6.30     4.1d     5.11     5.41     5.97     6.47     4.67     5.23
Receivables                                            0.13     0.15     0.15     0.15     0.15    0.15     0.15     0.15     0.15     0.15     0.15     0.15     3.15     3.15     0.15     3.15
Inventories                      3.33                           0.36     0.38     0.38     0.38    0.33      33      0.33     0.38     0.33     0.    33 0     .33 3.38             0.30     0.38
Others                                                 0.13     0.15     0.15     0.15     0.15     0.15     0.15    0.15     0.15     3.15     0,13     0.15     0.13     0.15     0.1      '
Total Current Assets                                     2.2c     3.56     4.39     5.33    4..47     5.09    5.84    6.57      6.98     5.16     5.73     6.09     6.65     7. _-             5.96
Current Liabilities
Long-tern Debt Maturities                              3.4a     0.47     0.50     0.53     0.56     0.63    0.64     0.68     0.72     0.77     0.82    0.37      0.93     0.99     i.05     1.12
Payables                                               0.l5     0.17     0.13     0.18    0.13      D.18    0.18     0.18     0.18     0.18     0.18     D.13     0.18     D.18     3.18     0.18
PrFvision for Dividend Payment                           -      0.34     0.46    0.47      0.48    0.61     0.62     o.64     o.65     0.67     0.69     0.73     0.73     0.75     0.78     3.3C
Other                                                  0.26     0.31     0.33     0.33     0.33     0.33    0.33    0.33      0.33     0.33     0.33     0.33     0.33     0.33     0.33     0.33
Total Current Liabilities                                0.87     1.29     1.47     1.51     1.55    1.72     1.77     1.83     1.88     1.95     2.02     2.08     2.17     2.25     2.34     2.43
Net Ibrking Capital                                      1.38     2.27     2.92     3.82     2.92     3.37    4.07     4.74     5.10     3.21     3.77     4.01     4.43     4.90     3.21     3.53
Fixed Assets (Net)
Fixed Assets                                 20.15    21.66    20.73    20.08    19.15    20.00    13.35    18.42    17.49    16.84   18.40    17.47    16.32    15.39    i4.96    16.09    15.16
Deferred Charges                              0.62     2.27     2.02     1.77     1.52     1.27     i.19    1.11     1.03     0.95     0.87     0.79     0.71     6.63     0.55     0.47     D.39
Total Fixed Assets                             20.77    23.93    22.75    21.85    20.67    21.27    20.54    19.53    1B.52    17.79    19.27    13.26    17.53    16.52    15-51    16.56    15.55
Total Net Assets                               20.77    25.31    25.02    24.77    24.49    24.19    23.91    23.60    23.26    22.89    22.48   22.03    21.54    21.30    20.41    19.77    19.08
Long-Term Liabilities
IBRD Loans                                    7.51    10.00     9.77     9.52     9.25     3.96     8.65     3.32    7.96     7.58     7.17     6.73     6.25     5.7.     5.19     4.60     3.97
Yugoslav Loans                                8.19    10.07     9.36     9.61     9.41     9.17     8.92     8.65    8.37     8.07      7.76    7.43     7.09     6.73     6.3      5.95     5.53
Total Long-Term Debts                               2077  20.07    19- 67    -   T.9 T=   I      I757    16.9 3T      3 TT15.                                  12.347 134    T 3 2 1.5 9.
(Less: Debt Maturities)                       -      I.44     0.47     0.50     0.53     0.56     o.60    o.64    o.68      0.72     0.77     0.82     0.37     0.93     0.99     1.05     1.12
Total long-Texm Liabilities                    1573    19.63    19.16    18.66    18.13    17.57    16.97    16.33    15.65    14.93    14.16    13.34    02.47    11.54    10.55      9.50     3.38
Equity                                          5.04     5.68     5.86     6.11     6.36     6.62     6.94     7.27     7.61     7.S6     8.32     8.69     9.07     3.46     9.86    10.27    10.70
Represented by:
Share Capital                               5.04     5.50     5.50     5.50     5.50     5.50     5.50     5.50     5.50     5.50     5.50     5.50    5.50      5.50     5.50     5.50     5.50
Retai-ned Earnings~-                                 __6__7                                                                                                                                 52
Retained~~~~l Eanns                               .18     0.36    0.61      0.86     1.12     .44      1.77    2.1.1    2.46     2.82     3.19    3-Lj      3-96     436      477      52
Total Equity                                    5.04     5.68     5.86     6.11     6.36     6.62     6.94     7.27     7.61     7.96     3.32     3.69     5.07     9..5     9.86    10.27    10.70
Current Ratio,2/                                  -    2.6:1    2.8:1    3.0:1    3.5:1    2.9:1    3.0:1    3.3:1    3.4:1    3.7:1    2.6:1    2.9:i.   2.7:_              3 .2:1    2.4:1    2.5:1
Long-Tenn Debt/Equity Ratio                    76:24    73:22    77:23    75:25    74:26    73:27    71:29    69:31    67:33    65:35    63:37    61.:39    53:    5,:4,    52:43   i48352   44156
1/ Net of dividend prOvision
21' Current maturities of LT debt as a cur-ent '.IaoL;vy                                                                                                                                             H  (D
February, 1971



YUGOSLAVIA - BERNARDIN TOURIS( PRJECT
PROJECTED CASH FLOW
(US$ Millon)
'ear  Dineg Dceriber 31t                19,71   1972   1973   1974   1975  21976   19                        1980     8    1         8                    1986                  1
Oeangear                             -      -       -      -       1     "2"       23    k95
Source:
Sash at Beginnig                        -       -       -      -            1.66   2.90   3.71    4.65   3.79   4,4.1   5.16   5.89   6.30   4.48   5.11   5.42   5.97    6.147   4.87
Tnitlal E.4uity Investepnt-            1.32   2.22   1.50      -    0.462/   -       -       -       - -
Long-Term Loans, IBRDI-'   2/           -    1.12   2.26   4.16   2.46       -      -       -
Long-Tern L1ans, Yugoslavia-                    -    0.64   7.55   1.88   _          _       _       _       _
S3ub-Total                          1.32   3.34   4.40  11.71   4.80   1.66   2.90   3.71    4 65   3.79   4.41   5.16   5.89   6.30   4-48                  5-4    5.9    6.17   4.87
Nlet Profit                              -      -       -      -    0.18   0.52   0.71   0.72    0.74   0.93   0.95   0.98   1.00   1.03   1.06   1.08   1.12   1.15   1.19   1.23
Non-Cash Charges                        _       -      _       -    1.18   1.18   1.18   1.18    1.18   1.01   1.01   1.01   1.01   1.01   1.01   1.01   1.01   1.01   1.01   1.01
Sub-Total                             _      _       _      -    1.36   1.70   1.89   1.90    1.92    1.94   1.96   1.99   2.01   2.04   2.07   2.09   2.13   2.16   2.20    2.24
Total Cash                             1.32   3.34   44.0  11.71   6.16   3.36   4.79   5.61    6.57   5.73   6.37   7.15   7.90           3    6.55   7.20   7.56   8.13    8.67   7.11
increase in Payables & Others            -                          0.43   0.05   0.03              __-    _        -              -       -       -
Total Funds Provided                   1.32   3.34   4.40  11.71   6.59  23 4    b.82   5.61    6.57   57    6-3    7.15   7.90   8.34   6.55   7.20   7.54   8.13   8.67   711
App2.1ca'ion:
Project Expenses
Land                                 1.04     -       -      -              -                  -       -      -       -          -       -       -      -       -                  -
Building Fixtures & Equipment        0.23   3.21   4.20  11.47   2.44       -    0.28      -      1.78   0.28                   0.28   2.9      _      .28                   2.06
Sub-Total                           1.27   3.21   4.20  11.47   2.44       -    0.28      -      1.78   0.28         _ _       0.28   2.69     -    0.28       -      -    2.06
Pre-Operational Expenses and
Deferred Charges          0.05   0.13   0.20   0.24   1.90
Total Frofect Expenses          1.32    3.34       L40  11.71   4.34   -    0.28       -     1.78   0.28      _      _    0.28   2.49       -    0.23      _      _    2.c6
Long-er. Repayment, R                    -      -       -      -       -    0.23   0.25   0.27    0.29   0.31   0.33   0.36   0.38   0.41   o.L4   O.68   o.51   o.55   o.'9   o.63
Long-Tern Repayment, Yugoslavia         _      _        -     _        -    0.21   0.22   0.23    0.24   0.25   0.27    0.28   0.30   0.31   0.33   0.34   o.36   0.33   0.40   o.42
Total Repayment                                                 -    0.44   0.47   0.50    0.53   0.56   0.60   0.64   0.68   0.72   0.77   0.82   0.s7   0.93   0.99,  1.05
DOrvdands & Allocations byE Business    -      _       _      _-              -    0.34   0.46    0.47   0.48   0.61   0.62   o.64   o.65   o.67   0.69   0.70   0.73   0.75   0.78
Conrittee
Increase in Current Assets                                     -    0.59   0.07   0.02       _       _      _       _      _       _      _       _      _       _       _      _       _
Total Application               1.32   3.34   4.40  11.71   4.93   0.51   1.11   0.96    2.78   1.32   1.21   1.26   1.60   3.86   1. 4   1.79   1.57   1.66  23      1.83
Cash at End                               -       -                   1.66   2.90   3.71   4.65    3.79   4.41   L. 1    5 8    6.30    .68       51        4    5.97   6.67    4.87   5.28
rebt Serr-e Coverage: Generated Income plus Interest                  2.09   2.42   2.59   2.59    2.59   2.59   2.59   2.59   2.59   2.59   2.59   2.59   2.59   2.59   2.59   2.59
Maturities plus Interest less Subsidy           1.17    1.19   1.20   1.22    1.23   1.25   1.27   1.28   1.30   1.32   1.34   1.37   1.39   1.12   1.66   1.ti7
Debt Service Coverage                           1.8    2.0    2.2    2.1       2.1    2.1    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    1.9    1.9    1.9    1.8    1.8    1.8
1/ Including land and initial woricing capital                                                                                                                                            9
2/ Including principal and interest and other charges during constraction                                                                                                                    CD
W Working capital                                                                                                                                                                         (DV 
May, 1971






YUGOSLAVIA
BERNARDIN HOTEL COMPLEX
ESTIMATED CONSTRUCTION AND DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
DI S BU R SEM E NT                                                                          9,100,000
(IN U. S. DOLLARS)
1,124, COO                        2,255,000                           4,156,000                           1,564,500
RATE                                (I 2%)                             (25%)                               (46%)                               (17%)
~~  771~~Y       03       04      05   I  06        07  I  0~~~8  Io         010       Q1        1        1        14     Q15I06I   1                  1
SELECTIION OF       Q          2     Q          4      Q         6       Q                  9     QQl                Q2      Q3Q6                                Q1         1
ARCHITECTS ANO
SITE PREP,
DESIGN
PRELIMINARY/CONTRACT DOCUMENTS
AGREEMENTOCUA Y
SIGNING                                                                                                                                            DAT E
DATE                                      [ONYTUCTIfN
CONSTRUCTION
EQUIPMENT
DELIVE RY AND INSTALLATION
-   -  -  -  - --   -  -L -   - -  -  -   -   -  -
L            ~~~~LIABILITY PERIOD
II   I I I   I  I L i                          I  I  I I  I I  I  I  I  I  I      I-  I  I  I  I   I  I               I I
I234567 891011113141516 17 1819 2021 2223 125 26272829 30 3132 33 3435    37 38 3940 41 4243 4445 4r647 149 50 5152 5354 55 5r57 5859 
STAGES          01       Q2  12  Q3        04      05       Q6  24  Q7        Q8       09      010 36  0il       012      Q13      Q14 48 Q15        016      017      QJS 60 
(IN MONTHS &
QUARTERS)                                                                                                                                                      BIBD-5366('3R)






TUGOSLAVIA - BEMARItIN
GENERAL OIGANIZATION CHART
Assi.atanit Dfrector
Off iciA1 Secretary & Manager                    F    erManager                                                                                                              pato.Mnge
Gener'al Azr.iyiqtraticn _             Selling aMn Marketing                     Technical Department                          Chief AC                                 Hotel and Annaxea
Secretarial  L      i                             |Per snet  .                Apars       Engineeri|g   Paz*s             Bookkeeping  oCah        Internal   |ecePtion           o  .         Central
L-L-g   IPersonnel  Laundry  =Beaches               and
Transport     and          | Accountin                   and          Portera          estaarant   festa4raat
P Pllrounds                                 otu                          n   aa       adBr
0
Ko






I33                     _                       13'045                                           140
YUGOSLAVIA
COASTLINE OF SLOVENIA
Main roads
Republic boundary
International boundary
-45145'                                                   0           5                         5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S  54
-4545 < 2 t F > - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS155-
0                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10
t X < \ \ \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES 
Grado                                                         TRIESTE:g10,t     
Bay            o f                                            . .... .. 
T r ie  s  e                                                         s                                \ozina
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
00
..  ; ,  NRUMANIA
_45v30S, ~ ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~    ~       ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,;                              -.R 7( ZD(   40 -  YUGO SLAI
... S    .    .......  .  0 \ 1 ZStifX HBULGARIA
-'4.---              ~~~~~~~ITAL 
Buje       CR>                                                           0Ki~     AI
TO PU/a    13045                      ~0i47t                                    R
APRI L 1971                                                                                              i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD 3387R






PIRAN, YUGOSLAVIA
4              -                                   TOURISM PROJECT
Bernardin HoW   Complex Location
tEQEND
PROJECT AREA
X<>_  ;  URBANIZED AREAS
UNDEVELO17Ei AREAS
=ROADS
0    100  200   300 M.Iers
4 0A....~~~~~~~~~~~
ANIAA~
SUL AR!A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lR 21R






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 6-
..                                   C~~~~~~~~~~ONFIDENTILL
FOR
EXECUTIVE                                                            For consideration
v    vS                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~on June 17., 1971
DIRECTORS '
MEETING
R71-142/1
FROM: The Secretary                                    June 8, 1971
YUGOSLAVIA: "Babin Kuk" Tourism Project and
Hotel "Bernardin" Tourism Project
COBRIGEINDUHI
ThPe is attached a copy of map IBRD 3492, which replaces map IBRD
3244R d6triibuted with the Appraisal Report on the Bernardin Tourism project
(R71-& - Tab 2).
In the same Appraisal Report, in line 7 of paragraph 7.04 the words
"twenty years" should read "twenty-five years".
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
President's Council
Executive Vice President, IFC
Vice President, IFC
Department Heads, Bank and IDC






PIRAN, YUGOSLAVIA
..  .                   TOURISM PROJECT
Bernardin Hotel Complex
Land Use
t\To Pin                                                                                                       ---- Bernardin Project boundary
::    Recreation area
Main roods
Hotel areas
*  .\X    t Paroking area
50   Contours in meters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
. -0
0.
w   ,         ,,^:  . - , ,/P~ARKING );   \ ,                                                 \*
>UNGARY  g                     <           ~~~~~~~~~F I R S rTF                 
AtSTIA  JHUNQARY
.4 tt   v<-~RUMANIA                        \l                     L       /f                         /
Y UGOSLAVIA                                                                               4                                 1
ITALYREECE 0                                                                                                                                               200 tZ tS3 pN
JUNE 1971                                                                                                                                                       IBRD - 34D



