Report No. PID9854
Project Name                     Bosnia and Herzegovina-Privatization...
Technical Assistance Credit
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Privatization
Project ID                       BAPE70917
Responsible Agency               Entity Governments of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Implementing Agency              Directorate for Privatization in Republika
Srpska and the Federation and Cantonal
Privatization
Agencies in the Federation of BiH
Contact Person:
For the Federation of BiH:
Mr. Nedim Lulo
Director of the Federation Privatization
Agency
Alipasina 41, Sarajevo,
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Tel:387-33-212-884
Fax:387-33-212-883
Email: nediml@bih.net.ba
For Republika Srpska:
Mr. Borislav Obradovic
Director of the Directorate for Privatization
Mladena Stojeanovica 4, Banja Luka
Republika Srpska
Tel: 387-51-308-311
Fax: 387-51-311-245
Email: dip@inecco.net
Environment Category             Financial Intermediation
Appraisal Date                   February 26, 2001
Board Date                       April 3, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
State-owned enterprises and banks are still dominating BiH's economy. While
privatization laws and regulations have been in place in the course of the
past two years, long delays in preparing Opening Balance Sheets (OBS),
clarifying ownership questions, installing the necessary technical
infrastructure for carrying out mass privatization, and insufficient
government commitment have repeatedly postponed the privatization of large
enterprises. Complex and cumbersome (and decentralized in the case of the
Federation of BiH) privatization schemes, which combine the objective of
transferring public assets into private hands with that of absorbing the
citizens' financial claims on the Entity Governments, are another important
factor in explaining the slow privatization process.



Consequently, inefficient enterprises continue to benefit from Government
subsidies and risky bank credits, thereby preventing new businesses from
entering the market or existing ones from expanding. Moreover, efficient
enterprises often fail to develop and to serve as engines of growth because
political parties or public agencies intervene directly in their business
activities.
Alarmed by the low contribution of the private sector to GDP (estimated at
some 35 percent), decelerating economic growth rates and the possibility of
reduced support from the international community, the Entity Governments have
become aware of the urgency of the situation and have taken steps to
accelerate privatization. In a first phase, small businesses have been
privatized through cash and certificates or coupons in the Federation and
Republika Srpska, respectively. This process is expected to be completed by
mid-2001. In a second phase, large enterprises, holding companies and
utilities will be privatized through tenders and public offering of shares
(POS) and vouchers/coupons in the Federation and Republika Srpska,
respectively.
2. Objective
The Credit aims at accelerating large-scale privatization through the tender
sale of enterprises. The Credit would fund the recruitment and employment of
international and local privatization experts by the two Entity Governments.
These experts (dealmakers) would be skilled and experienced in: (i)
finalizing the documentation required for successful enterprise sale; (ii)
searching and identifying strategic investors; and (iii) completing the sale
of enterprises to the latter. Sale of enterprises to strong investors ready
to transfer capital, know how and management skills to BiH's privatized
enterprises in a transparent manner is the overriding objective of the
Credit.
In addition to (a) assisting in the sale of manufacturing enterprises, the
T.A. Credit would also (b) help prepare the legislative and regulatory
frameworks required for divesting utility companies and other agencies used
by the Entity Governments or Cantons to deliver certain public services
(waste collection and disposal or district heating for example), and (c) help
make privatizable holding companies and large enterprises by "unbundling"
them and performing similar preparatory steps so that they can attract
potential buyers as separated entities.
The two Entity Governments have committed to privatize some 1,850
enterprises. Some 440 enterprises (263 in the Federation and 177 in Republika
Srpska, or roughly one quarter of the 1,850 enterprises) have been earmarked
for tender privatization to strategic investors. Close to one third (138) of
the 440 enterprises - 86 in the Federation and 52 in Republika Srpska - will
be privatized with the help of the international community, including the
World Bank. For the remaining 1410 enterprises (in both Entities), public
offering of shares/voucher privatization will be the predominant method of
privatization, combined with auctions and tenders for the residual shares.
Under the T.A. Credit, between 30 and 40 enterprises (so far identified: 16
in Republika Srpska and 22 in the Federation) would be assisted with tender
privatization.
-2-



3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The reasons for the Bank's involvement. (a) The Bank has taken a leading role
in the dialogue of privatization-related policy issues. Both Entities have
confirmed their interest in cooperating with the Bank on large enterprise
privatization. (b) The Bank has substantial experiences in dealing with
privatization issues. (c) BiH's privatization process has already supported
by the ongoing Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment Credit (EBPAC,
FY99). The project will complement a planned Business Environment Adjustment
Credit (BAC, FY01), which supports reform measures aimed at improving BiH's
business environment. The T.A. Credit will be closely coordinated with the
privatization support programs of other donors.
Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection. Alternatives to
the Credit consist of (a) sale of enterprises through tendering with the help
of grant funding only; and (b) no external support to BiH's large enterprise
privatization. To rely on grant funding from bilateral and multilateral
sources exclusively would have resulted in a less than full ownership of the
privatization process by the authorities and, possibly, less than optimal use
of international expertise and experience. Most likely, privatization would
be slower than desired because the amount of grant funding would be limited.
Alternative (b) would result in an even slower sale of enterprises with a
risk of insufficient transparency and accountability of the process.
Privatization of the utilities will require careful preparation and
application of best practices. Funds to be provided under the Credit will
be urgently needed and will turn out to be the most useful, because grant
funds are not expected to become available in sufficient amounts for this
task and because the Bank will help ensure that impartial and efficient
privatization advice will be provided in a timely fashion.
A combination of borrowed funding from IDA and grant funding from other
donors to help accelerate privatization of enterprises was, therefore,
considered the most suitable approach. Implementation of the Credit will be
coordinated closely with the international community.
4. Description
The Credit would take into account the existing legislative framework in BiH,
and be integrated into the institutional and administrative arrangements,
which have already been created in the two Entities. It would assist in its
further fine-tuning and expansion where necessary.
The Privatization T.A. Credit would include the following three components.
The budget for each component is shown in the following table.
Note: This document contains tables that cannot be converted into text files.
However, if you have MS Word or Word Viewer on your computer, you should be able
to download the complete   original version by going to
http://www.worldbank.org/pics/pid/ba70917.doc
Component I: Privatization of industrial enterprises (not supported by other
bilateral or multilateral organizations)
In Republika Srpska, some 10 manufacturing enterprises have been selected for
-3 -



receiving privatization support under the Credit, including companies engaged
in the production of agricultural products, including sugar, machine tools,
construction equipment, and etc.
In the Federation, the Credit will support the sale of at least 16 industrial
enterprises in the following sectors: metal processing, machine building,
electro-mechanical devices, furniture and wood processing, leather,
construction materials and services, and engineering, as well as the
country's main steel production complex.
In addition, representatives from the Cantonal Privatization Agencies (CPA)
have indicated that a number of state-owned enterprises under their
jurisdiction may be interested in obtaining privatization assistance under
the Credit.
Component II: Enterprises undergoing special privatization programs
Recognizing the special circumstances of utility companies and certain other
monopolies, the two Entity Governments have decided to privatize them under
special programs. The Credit would assist in financing both (a) further
preparatory work, such as appropriate legislation and regulatory frameworks,
towards the preparation of the divestiture of these companies, and (b) the
sale of the companies to strategic investors.
(1) Telecommunications. Both Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH
intend to accelerate the further modernization of the telecom sector with
the help of strategic investors who would make the necessary investments
and assume management control over the company. An open tendering
procedure would be launched to appoint qualified privatization advisors
using a portion of the funds provided under the Credit. The task of the
advisors would be to: (i) help prepare the next steps in creating the
appropriate regulatory framework required for a successful privatization;
(ii) identify through an open and transparent process the most suitable
way for attracting strategic investors for each of the BiH telecom
operators; and (iii) negotiate with them on behalf of the authorities the
sale of a controlling interest in the relevant operators.
(2) Postal services. Funds provided under the Credit could be allocated
towards improving the quality of postal services and finding ways for
raising their profitability.
(3) Gas sector. In preparation of the privatization of the gas sector, the
following tasks will need to be carried out: (i) review the existing laws,
regulations and concession arrangements at the state, Entity, cantonal and
municipal levels, which may be bearing on the new gas sector legal
framework to be developed; (ii) provide expert guidance for the working
groups concerning the Gas Sector Policy statement and the gas sector legal
framework;    (iii) help draft key legal instruments for the gas sector
which may include gas laws at the State and Entity levels; (iv) provide
expert guidance to the working groups on all aspects of preparing the gas
sector for privatization (alignment with EU gas sector policy; industry
restructuring and regulation; gas pricing policy; and privatization
strategy); and (v) prepare offering documents, launch tendering process
with investment banks, and negotiate and conclude the sale. While separate
funds are being sought to assist in preparing and finalizing the required
- 4 -



legal and regulatory framework, the Credit would provide necessary funds
for preparing and carrying out the actual privatization process of the gas
company.
(4) Water and district heating companies. The performance of the water and
district heating companies in both Entities is characterized by large
losses of water due to an outdated physical infrastructure, poor
collection rates, as well as unclear and conflicting management
responsibilities. In both Entities, the cantonal and municipal
authorities in charge of district heating and the water companies have
benefited from bilateral support, but comprehensive strategies on how to
best modernize the sector, improve its performance and prepare for the
various steps towards its eventual privatization have not yet been
developed. Discussions were held with officials in charge of the water and
district heating companies at the Ministry of Town Planning and Housing-
Communal Services in Republika Srpska and at the Federation Ministry of
Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry and representatives of the
water and district heating companies in the Federation. While it was
recognized that there was an urgent need for investing in the sector's
physical infrastructure, for reorganizing the competencies and
responsibilities between the various levels (Entity, cantons and
municipalities) and for improving the companies' performance, the
discussions as to whether reform work in this sector should be included in
the Credit were inconclusive.
(5) Waste disposal and recycling. In the Federation of BiH, discussions are
underway on how to best organize the collection and disposal/recycling of
waste in the municipalities. The Privatization T.A. Credit would provide
funds for studying the feasibility of various options, including their
privatization, and for helping to implement the most suitable option.
(6) Air Bosna. The Government of the Federation of BiH intends to privatize
the state owned airline. In a first step, international experts would
evaluate the assets of the company, including the value of its licenses
and routes to a potential buyer, and outline alternative privatization
scenarios. The second step would consist of the preparation of the sale
of Air Bosnia to a strategic investor. A merchant bank would be recruited
which would, as an agent for and on behalf of the Government, undertake
all the necessary preparations for completing the sale of the company.
The Dutch Government and the World Bank are prepared to assist in these
tasks.
(7) Electricity sector. Preparatory work towards the unbundling of BiH power
generation and distribution companies is being carried out under the
proposed Power III Credit. Discussions are ongoing as to whether to
include the activities and costs associated with the actual sale of the
power companies under the Credit.
Component III: Technical assistance with unbundling, concessions, insolvency
While sale of enterprises to strategic investors would be the main emphasis
under the Credit, programs would also be developed to render enterprises
privatizable through: (i) help make privatizable holding companies and large
enterprises by "unbundling" them and performing similar preparatory steps to
attract potential buyers as separated entities; (ii) ensuring private sector
- 5 -



participation through concession agreements; and (iii) application of
insolvency legislation to resolve the enterprises.
5. Financing
Sources                                  Amount (US$million)
The Bank (IDA) funding                   12
Other donors                             1.6
Governments                              0.4
Total                                    14
6. Implementation
(1) Implementing Period. The project will be implemented over [361 months
commencing [05/2001], and will be subject to continuous monitoring and
evaluation and a mid-term review in [09/2002].
(2) Project Implementation Units. The Directorate for Privatization in
Republika Srpska and the Privatization Agency in the Federation would be
responsible for the overall execution of the Privatization T.A. Credit.
The Credit would be implemented with the help of two separate Project
Implementation Units (PIU), one in Republika Srpska and one in the
Federation of BiH. In Republika Srpska, it was decided to locate the
Privatization T.A. Credit in the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) for the
Reconstruction Assistance Project. In the Federation of BiH, the PIU for
the Local Initiatives Project would serve as the PIU for the Privatization
T.A. Credit.
(3) Procurement Arrangement. Procurement of goods and consultant services to
be financed under the Credit will be conducted in accordance with the Bank
guidelines Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated January
1995 (revised January and August 1996, September 1997 amendment) and
Guidelines-Selection and Employment of Consultants by The World Bank
Borrowers dated January 1997 (September 1997 amendment).
(4) Financial Management Arrangements. Once the institutional arrangements
in the Federation of BiH and Republika Srspka have been finalised, full
financial management capacity assessments will be carried out during the
project appraisal mission. The systems of both PIUs will be assessed and
recommendations made to ensure the financial management systems can meet
the Bank's minimum requirements. Full compliance with the Bank's financial
management requirements would be a condition of Board presentation.
(5) Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Arrangements. Progress achieved under
the project would be measured and monitored in two ways: First, the number
of enterprises sold to strategic investors and required legislative pieces
and regulatory frameworks put in place will be monitored by the
Privatization Agency (FPA) in the Federation and the Directorate for
Privatization (DfP) in the RS, by the two Project Implementation Units,
regular Bank supervision missions, as well as at benchmark intervals to be
agreed with the FPA and DfP. The reasons for successful or less successful
enterprise tender and sale processes will be analyzed so that appropriate
corrections in the project design and decision making process can be made.
Such evaluations may also result in replacements of local or international
"dealmakers" or other key players in the tender process whose performance
- 6 -



is deemed to be unsatisfactory by the Entity Governments and the Bank. The
deposits of the privatization revenues into accounts earmarked for this
purpose and their spending on agreed upon expenditure categories will also
be part of the project monitoring process. Second, privatization is
expected to be followed by quick enterprise restructuring and large
productivity gains. They will be measured, to the extent feasible, by
monitoring increases in production, exports, profits and also in
employment, both at the enterprise and branch levels. Statistical
periodicals, complemented by specific surveys by Bank supervision
missions, will be used for evaluating the post - privatization impact.
7. Sustainability
Project sustainability, defined as successful privatization of enterprises
into the hands of dominant strategic investors, privatization of additional
enterprises and successful enterprise restructuring once the project has come
to a closure is high, because (i) both Entities now show strong commitment to
privatization; (ii) financial support by the international community is tied
to significant progress towards structural reforms, including enterprise and
banking privatization; (iii) the transfer of skills from international
dealmakers to domestic privatization experts and vice versa is likely to
create an environment conducive to further privatization after the project
has come to a closure; (iv) investments carried out by the new owners will
create a momentum that is likely to attract additional investors to BiH. In
order to demonstrate the positive effects of the project quickly, the
Executing Agencies and the dealmakers will concentrate on a few promising
enterprise privatizations early on. The results of the privatization of the
utility companies will be particularly visible for the population as their
performances is expected to show significant improvements in the medium term.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project design incorporates the following lessons:
(1) A successful privatization program is characterized by three fundamental
principles: political commitment and accountability, market principles,
and transparency.
(2) To implement a privatization program successfully, an appropriate
institutional framework needs to be in place.
(3) The purchase price should be the dominant criterion for selecting the
winning bidder in a transparent manner, but sometimes dubious investors who
offered a high price were not really qualified buyers because they lacked
the necessary expertise to run the privatized company. A successful
privatization program should consider setting up pre-qualification
screening for the bidders before using price as the only criteria.
(4) Combining the expertise and knowledge of both local and international
privatization experts contribute to successful privatization.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Experience in other countries indicates that, in the case of large
enterprises with significant adverse environment impact, privatization
generally contributes to improved environmental performance. However,
experience also shows that the lack of clarity and agreement about
environmental liabilities and obligations increases the risk for potential
- 7 -



investors, and leaves serious environmental problems unresolved.
The risk for the potential investors needs to be minimized by providing as
much information as possible in a transparent manner. Under the T.A. Credit,
environmental audits will be carried out in preparation of the tender sale.
The respective responsibilities of the seller and buyer will be clarified and
laid down in binding agreements. The Entity governments may want to use funds
provided under the credit for the preparation of environmental audits and
also for the training of local privatization experts in environmental
assessments and audits.
10. Contact Information
Task Team Leader
Ulrich Hewer
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-2279
Fax: (202) 522-0005
11. For information on other project related documents contact
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending, January 12, 2001.
- 8 -



