Docunent of
The World Bank
Report No: 22156-BiH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.6 MILLION (US$19.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FOR A
PRIVATIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 31, 2001
Private and Financial Sectors Development Unit
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = Konvertible Marka
KMI = US$0.439
US$1 = 2.278 KM
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BiH -  Bosnia and Herzegovina
BAC -  Business Enviromnent Adjustment Credit
CPA -  Cantonal Privatization Agency
DEF -  Development and Employment Fund
DFID -  Department for International Development
DfP -  Directorate for Privatization
EBPAC -  Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment Credit
FBiH -  Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
FMS -  Financial Management System
FPA -  Federation Privatization Agency
FSD -  Foundation for Sustainable Development
IAGP -  International Advisory Group on Privatization
IDA -  International Development Agency
LDF -  Local Development Foundation
LDP -  Local Development Project
LORA -  Emergency Public Works and Employment Project
MFTER -  Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
MIS -  Management and Information System
MOT -  Ministry of the Treasury
OED -  Operations Evaluation Department
PAD -  Project Appraisal Document
PELRP -  Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project
PIU -  Project Implementation Unit
PMR -  Project Management Report
POS -  Public Offering of Shares
PTAC -  Privatization Technical Assistance Credit
RS -  Republika Srpska
SA -  Special Account
SEED -  Southeast Europe Enterprise Development
SOE -  Statement of Expenses
SOTAC -  Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:   Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager/Director:    Khaled Sherif/Paul J. Siegelbaum
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Ulrich A. Hewer



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
PRIVATIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      11
3. Benefits and target population                                                     12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                           23
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         23
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in proposed project design                            24
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   25
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        25
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           26
2. Financial                                                                          27
3. Technical                                                                          27
4. Institutional                                                                      27
5. Environmental                                                                      28
6. Social                                                                             31
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 34
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     34
2. Critical risks                                                                     35
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     36



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             37
2. Other                                                                               37
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           37
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          38
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           39
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     42
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          48
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary            51
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary     54
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements/ Annex 6b: Review of Financial         57
Management Arrangments
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      84
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    85
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   86
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             88
MAP(S)
Map of Bosnia and Herzegovina



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Privatization Technical Assistance Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSPF
Date: May 30, 2001                                Team Leader: Ulrich Albert Hewer
Country Manager/Director: Christiaan J. Poortman  Sector Manager/Director: Paul Siegelbaum
Project ID: P070917                               Sector(s): BP - Privatization
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)   Theme(s): Private Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ 1 Loan    [X] Credit    f I Grant     [ ] Guarantee    [ ] Other:
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $19.8
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                          Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.5%                              Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m): Source                                Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        3.49           0.00           3.49
IDA                                                             0.00          19.80          19.80
Total:                                                          3.49          19.80          23.29
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Responsible agency: ENTITY GOVERNMENTS OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Directorate for Privatization in Republika Srpska (DfP)
Federation and Cantonal Privatization Agencies in the Federation of BiH (FPA, CPA)
Other Agency(ies):
FOR THE FEDERATION OF BIH:
Federation and Cantonal Privatization Agencies
Address: 41 Alipasina, Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina
Contact Person: Mr. Reza Zutic
Tel: 387 33 212 884              Fax: 387 33 212 883               Email: nediml@bih.net.ba
FOR REPUBLIKA SRPSKA:
Directorate for Privatization
Address: 4 Mladena Stojeanovica, Banja Luka, Bosnia and Herzegovina
Contact Person: Mr. Rodoljub Djukanovic
Tel: 387 51 308 311              Fax: 387 51 311 245               Email: dip@inecco.net
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002   1  2003         2004
Annual    6.25        6.72       6.83            L          I
Cumulative    6.25       12.97      19.80
Project implementation period: 36 months (FY02-FY04)
Expected effectiveness date: 09/01/2001  Expected closing date:  08/31/2004



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the Privatization Technical Assistance Credit (PTAC) is to help accelerate large
scale privatization through the tender sale of state-owned enterprises. Specifically, the project
would:
(a) assist in the tender sale of state-owned enterprises;
(b) help prepare the legislative and regulatory frameworks required for divesting utility and
other monopoly companies that deliver public services (such as communications, water, gas,
district heating, waste collection and disposal companies, railways, etc.);
(c) render holding companies and large enterprises privatizable by "unbundling" them and
performing preparatory steps so that they could attract potential buyers as separate entities;
(d) help bring voucher privatization to a successful conclusion by assisting in setting up a
transparent and regulated market place for future shareholders.
Although the number of enterprises to be sold via tendering under the PTAC is small- the Credit
supports privatization of only some 13 percent of all large enterprises BiH intends to privatize via
tenders - the project's impact on accelerating privatization and the country's transition to a
market economy is likely to be large because: (i) the new dominant investors will restructure
enterprises, expand production and exports and create employment, as compared to the
overwhelming number of state-owned large enterprises that will be privatized via vouchers, i.e.
into diffuse ownership typically not associated with such restructuring. The enterprises selected
for tender privatization tend to be those that are likely to have better than average quality assets
and, therefore, a reasonable chance of attracting buyers; (ii) the PTAC is expected to support
close to 70 percent of the assets of the state-owned enterprises to be privatized with the help of
the intemational community (IAGP), and well over half (58 percent) of the enterprise assets
earmarked for tender privatization in BiH. It assists in selling almost 40 percent of enterprise
assets of all large enterprises in BiH, most of which are being privatized via vouchers; (iii) the
project design allows for and actually encourages the addition of enterprises into the pool of
tender privatization which could easily result in a larger number of enterprises to be privatized
with the help of the Credit.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
The Credit would fund the employment of international and local privatization experts by the two
Entity Governments. Progress in achieving the development objective will be measured and
monitored in two ways:
(a) The number of enterprises sold to strategic investors and required legislative pieces and
regulatory frameworks put in place will be monitored by the Privatization Agency (FPA) in the
Federation and the Directorate for Privatization (DfP) in Republika Srpska, by the two Project
- 2 -



Implementation Units, and during regular Bank supervision missions at benchmark intervals to be
agreed with the FPA and DfP. The reasons for successful or less successful enterprise tender
sales will be analyzed so that appropriate corrections in the decision making processes can be
made. Such evaluations may also result in replacements of local or international "dealmakers" or
other key players in the tender process whose performance is deemed to be unsatisfactory by the
Entity Governments and the Bank.
(b) The deposits of the privatization revenues into accounts earmarked for this purpose and
their spending on agreed upon expenditure categories will be part of the project monitoring
process.
(c) Privatization is expected to be followed by quick enterprise restructuring and large
productivity gains. They will be measured, to the extent possible, by monitoring increases in
production, exports, profits and in employment, both at the enterprise and branch levels.
Statistical periodicals, complemented by relevant surveys by Bank supervision missions, will be
used for evaluating the post-privatization impact.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Countrv Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R 2000-60         Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/18/2000
The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 2000-02, recognizing that structural reforms have
been slow, emphasizes the importance of accelerating privatization and of creating a
business-friendly environment. It, therefore, concludes that over the next few years, BiH needs to
concentrate on fostering private sector development.  The Bank Group is supporting this
objective with activities and projects aimed at: (i) improving the business enabling environment,
including the support to private investors and SMEs; (ii) completing small-scale privatization; (iii)
accelerating large-scale enterprise and bank privatization; and (iv) reforming the social protection
systems and the labor market.
The following operations and studies have been agreed upon with the Government in the
framework of the CAS discussions: An Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment Credit
(EBPA C) supporting small-scale privatization and initiation of bank and large enterprise
privatization, as well as the creation and strengthening of a number of market institutions, is under
implementation. While the operation has been achieving its overall development objective and the
first tranches have been released to the two Entities, the closing date has been extended until
mid-2001, due mainly to slow progress in preparing the complex divestiture of a group of
state-owned banks involving foreign creditors. A Business Enabling Environment Adjustment
Credit (BAC) is under preparation, complementing the Privatization T.A. Credit. A study,
highlighting the administrative barriers investors and the private business community are facing,
has been prepared by the Foreign Investment Advisory Services (FIAS) and will be discussed with
the Government and the various stakeholders in early mid-2001. It will serve as the basis for
designing the BAC. A Labor Market Study has been prepared and a report on the interaction of
the enterprise, household and banking sectors following the phasing out of the payments bureaus
is scheduled for FY 2002.
-3 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy is dominated by state (socially) owned enterprises and banks
preparing for privatization. While many laws and regulations needed for privatizing the economy
have been put in place in the course of the past three years, long delays in preparing Opening
Balance Sheets (OBS), clarifying ownership questions (Yugoslav factor) and in installing the
necessary logistical privatization infrastructure, as well as insufficient Government commitment
have resulted in repeated postponements of the start of large enterprise privatization. Complex
and cumbersome (and decentralized in the case of the Federation) privatization schemes,
combining the objective of transferring public assets into private hands with that of absorbing the
citizens' financial claims on the Entity Governments, are another factor in explaining the slowness
of the process. Moreover, not all laws or regulations are conducive to quick and effective
privatization. The problem of restitution in particular has not been resolved. Unsatisfactory
provisions for addressing environmental issues can also be expected to result in further
privatization delays (see E.5.).
Managers and workers in BiH's enterprises have few incentives to preserve capital or to ensure
healthy profits. On the contrary, inefficient enterprises continue to benefit from government
subsidies, guarantees and risky bank credits, thereby preventing new enterprises from entering the
market or from expanding. Efficient enterprises often fail to serve as engines of growth because
political parties or public agencies intervene directly in their business activities. Moreover, the
generous financial support from the intemational community after the war has at times obscured
the inefficient use and misuse of resources.
Alarmed by the low contribution of the private sector to GDP (estimated at some 35 percent), by
decelerating economic growth rates and the possibility of reduced external support from the
international community, the Entity Governments have become aware of the urgent need to
accelerate privatization. The first stage involves rapid privatization of small enterprises" with a
mix of cash and certificates in the Federation and a mix of cash and coupons in Republika Srpska.
The second stage focuses on the privatization of large enterprises, holding companies, and
utilities through tenders and public offering of shares (POS) in the Federation and tenders and
vouchers in Republika Srpska.
Privatization of small enterprises has been nearly completed. After a slow start in early/mid-1999, their sale proceeded
without major difficulties though not without contentions by unsuccessful bidders. In the Federation, small enterprises are
defined as (a) enterprises with assets value below KM 500,000 or less than 50 employees; (b) assets of enterprises with core
activity in trade, catering, services or road transport; (c) assets of enterprises not in use or not related to core activities. In
Republika Srpska, small enterprises are those with assets value below KM 300,000. Based on State and Entity laws, citizens
resident in the territory of each Entity as of end-March 1991 (the date of the last pre-war census) are entitled to general claims
in the form of certificates in the Federation of BiH and vouchers in Republika Srpska. In addition, certificates and vouchers
were issued for war-related claims. Cash equivalents in Republika Srpska are the coupons issued against frozen foreign
currency deposits. They can be used as a payment means in auctions and tenders.
- 4 -



Table 1: Large Enterprise Privatization in Bosnia and Herzegovina
Federation of BiH                 Republika Srpska
Number  Capital    Status         Number   Capital      Status
KM                                 KM
billion                            billion
Total number of large    1029    19.7                     830          8.7
enterprises, lI,3/
Voucher                  944      6.4  344 sold in 1V     830        2.5    Completed
privatization                   (32%)4' round; 600                 (30%)   in one round
scheduled in 2nd
round in mid
Oct. 2001
Tender Privatization     263      13      Ongoing          73       6.2       Ongoing
____________________            (68%)                               (70%)
-Supported by           86    11        Ongoing         52         5.1     Ongoing
IAGP
-Under PTAC             27      8       Ongoing          18        3.2     Ongoing
The governments of RS and the Federation of BiH  have decided to accelerate privatization of large
enterprises and utility companies with the assistance of the international community. The International
Advisory Group on Privatization (IAGP) is supporting the privatization of 138 enterprises (86 in the
Federation, and 52 in Republika Srpska) to strategic investors. In the Federation, USAID, GTZ and EU
have pledged privatization support to 15, 13 and 10 enterprises respectively. (i.e. 38 of the 86 enterprises).
In Republika Srpska, so far USAID has pledged privatization support to 10, GTZ to 12, and the EU to 8
enterprises (i.e. 30 out of the 52 enterprises). The Privatization T.A. project, supported by the Bank,
would assist in the privatization of 45 enterprises (27 in the Federation and 18 in RS). The remaining 25
enterprises that have been earmarked to benefit from IAGP support are still to be allocated to bilateral and
multilateral donors.
Table 2: International Su ort                         Tender r iio fargeoEnterprises5_
Federati4n ofLiL            RepublMa Srosh
USAID                               15                          10
GTZ                                 13                          12
EU                                  10                           8
WORLD BANK                          27                          18
Yet to be allocated                 21                           4
TOTAL                        86                          52
Large enterprises in the Federation of BiH are defined as (a) enterprises with assets value above KM 500,000 or more than 50
employees. In Republika Srpska, large enterprises are those with assets valued above KM 300,000.
Some of enterprises will be privatized by both tender and voucher methods (both in RS and the Federation).
Percentage of total capital.
As of May 2001
-5 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
In view of the slow speed of the privatization process, its insufficient transparency, and weak
enterprise governance during this critical period of transition, the project aims at:
(a) accelerating enterprise sale through tendering with the help of experienced domestic
and international privatization experts ("dealmakers"). While the tendering of the 138
companies earmarked to benefit from the support from the international community (IAGP) is
bound to be slower than mass privatization through vouchers, the combination of (a) highly
skilled "dealmakers", to be remunerated through an incentive scheme that will stimulate quick
sale; of (b) tight deadlines for moving the decision making process along a path of clearly defined
steps; and of (c) high visibility is expected to result in a significantly faster privatization process
than observed so far.
(b) improving the transparency of the sales transactions. Decisions about preparing
enterprises for privatization and about selecting the winning bidder according to clearly
established criteria and the application of both local and international expertise is likely to raise the
level of transparency of the privatization process. All sales revenues would be deposited into
accounts established for this specific purpose, and their spending by the respective governments
and its agencies would be limited to agreed upon expenditure categories.
(c) strengthening corporate governance and facilitating enterprise restructuring.
Tendering of enterprises with a strong emphasis of attracting dominant investors is expected to
lead to enterprise recapitalization, a quick transfer of management skills and, most importantly, to
a strong commitment to enterprise restructuring. The new owners are also likely to insist on
improving Bosnia's business enviionment so that enterprises can be managed more effectively.
(d) preparing post-privatization support measures. While tender sale of companies into the
hands of strategic investors is the project's predominant objective, it may not always be
achievable. At least two other outcomes need to be considered: (i) in view of the deterioration of
BiH's enterprises over the past few years, the country's unfavorable business and political climate,
and of the fact that many companies are being privatized at the same time in neighboring
countries, it would not be realistic to expect the "dealmakers" and Tender Bureaus to always
succeed in selling the companies. In cases where no suitable investor can be found, the PTAC will
assist FPA and DfP in finding other means of removing state-owned enterprises from the state's
responsibility and of subjecting them to profit incentives as much and as soon as feasible. In
addition to assisting enterprises with measures outlined below under Project Component 111, such
steps could also include employee ownership accompanied by management contracts. (ii) but
even after enterprises have been sold to private owners committed to making them profitable,
factors unforeseen at the time of the sale could prevent enterprise restructuring from taking place.
In such cases, the PTAC would assist the new owner in developing market - based tools, such as
realistic business plans, use of technology centers, innovative financing arrangements etc., which
would help him to overcome the obstacles to successful enterprise restructuring. Such tools
would be developed in close cooperation with programs supported by others, such as the
- 6 -



Southeast Europe Enterprise Development (SEED) and the Department for International
Development (DFID).
It is, however, important to emphasize that the project will deal with these two events only as
follow -up and "second best" measures, rather than alternatives to decisive and vigorous tender
privatization.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The Privatization T.A. Credit would include the following components:
indicative             Bank.      % of
Component                   Sector        Costs      % of    finalcing    Bank.
_U____    Total      (USSM)  f
1. Tender sale of enterprises -    BP                  10.56      45.3       9.77      49.3
"Dealmakers"
2. Utility privatization (advisors)                     0.60       2.6       0.55       2.8
3. Technical assistance on unbundling,                  1.88       8.1       1.83       9.2
concessions, insolvency, studies
(consultants)
4. Capital Market Development                           2.05       8.8       1.75        8.8
Institutional support for regulatory                    7.00      30.1       5.00      25.3
frameworks, PIUs, Tender Bureaus,
FPA and DfP
Contingencies                                           1.20       5.2       0.90       4.5
Total Project Costs                  23.29      100.0      19.80     100.0
Front-end fee                    0.00        0.0       0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required                    23.29      100.0     19.80      100.0
Component I: Tender sale of enterprises ("dealmakers")
Under this project component, "dealmakers" specialized and experienced in tender privatization,
will assist the governments in selling state-owned enterprises, not undergoing special privatization
programs, to strategic local and foreign investors. The "dealmakers" would actively search and
identify investors who would be professionally qualified and have the capital to modernize the
privatized enterprise. They would help sell, whenever this makes good sense, enterprises in
batches. Emphasis will be given to transferring majority ownership of public enterprise assets into
- 7 -



private ownership. The two Entity governments, represented by their respective privatization
agencies, have selected the number and type of enterprises to be privatized to strategic investors
with the help of the international community (IAGP), including the World Bank. The United
States, Germany, the Netherlands and the European Union are supporting tender sales under their
respective programs. The selection of enterprises to be privatized under those programs was
based on the preference expressed by the donors, partly because they had been associated with
the enterprises in question through other programs, and partly as a result of an international
"division of labor".
In Republika Srpska, some 18 large enterprises have been selected for receiving privatization
support under the Bank funded Credit, including companies engaged in the production of
agricultural products, including sugar, machine tools, construction equipment, and others.
In the Federation, the Credit will support the tender sale of 27 large enterprises in metal
processing, machine building, electro-mechanical devices, furniture and wood processing, leather,
construction materials and services, and engineering, as well as the country's main steel complex.
Component HI: Utility privatization (advisors)
The two Entity governments have decided to privatize certain public companies (utility companies
and other monopolies) under special privatization programs. The Credit would assist in financing
both (a) further preparatory work, such as appropriate legislation and regulatory frameworks,
towards the preparation of the divestiture of these companies, and (b) the actual sale of the
companies to strategic investors.
(i)    Telecommunications. Both Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH  intend to
accelerate the further modernization of the telecom sector with the help of a strategic investor
who would make the necessary investments and assume management control over the company.
An open tendering process would be launched to appoint qualified privatization advisors using a
portion of the funds provided under the Credit. The task of the advisors would be to: (i) help
prepare the next steps in creating the appropriate regulatory framework required for a successful
privatization; (ii) identify through an open and transparent process the most suitable way for
attracting strategic investors for each of the three BiH telecom operators; and (iii) negotiate with
them on behalf of the authorities the sale of a controlling interest in the relevant operators.
(ii)   Postal services.  Funds provided under the Credit could also be allocated towards
improving the quality of postal services, raising their profitability and for making them a real
development force in Bosnia's economy.
The postal system in BiH is currently not able to support the country's economic and social
reconstruction. It is in a poor state due to the following factors: (a) a limited range of services
caused by low productivity levels; (b) low staff ratio of postal employees and outlets versus
inhabitants in comparison to developed countries; and (c) lack of modern equipment and
resources necessary to develop the postal business. The economic recovery of the country
creates major challenges and opportunities for the postal industry. In order to meet future market
- 8 -



demands and to take advantage of new business opportunities, a major transformation of the
postal sector is urgently required.
Postal services in BiH must be placed in the context of the worldwide transition of the postal
sector involving market liberalization, increasing competition, new customer demands,
technological change and internationalization of mail flows and mail systems. The future
reimbursement system for incoming international mail ("terminal dues" which are an important
revenues source) requires appropriate delivery standards which are currently not met in BiH.
Consequently, a comprehensive postal modernization would aim at (a) ensuring solid postal
services; (b) securing financial viability for the incumbent; (c) stimulating the entire postal sector;
and (d) preparing the postal system for the "New/Information/Web Economy".
Under the Credit a general assessment of the postal system would be undertaken that would (a)
evaluate the existing operations; (b) analyze the current market situation (supply and demand) and
future trends; (c) identify possibilities for immediate measures for operational improvements; (d)
define the outline for a modern policy framework (legislative, regulatory and institutional setting);
(e) define an enterprise restructuring program (strategy, structures, systems); and (f) draft a
business and investment plan for the postal operator.
(iii)   Gas sector. In preparation of the privatization of the gas sector, the following tasks will
need to be carried out: (i) review the existing laws, regulations and concession arrangements at
the state, Entity, cantonal and municipal levels, which may be bearing on the new gas sector legal
framework to be developed; (ii) provide expert guidance for the working groups concerning the
Gas Sector Policy Statement and the gas sector legal framework; (iii) provide expert guidance to
the working groups on all aspects of preparing the gas sector for privatization (alignment with EU
gas sector policy; industry restructuring and regulation; gas pricing policy; and privatization
strategy); and (iv) prepare offering documents, launch tendering process with investment banks,
and negotiate and conclude the sale. While separate funds are being sought to assist in preparing
and finalizing the required legal and regulatory framework, the Credit would provide funds for
preparing and carrying out the actual privatization of the gas company.
(iv)   Water and district heating companies. The performance of the water and district
heating companies in both Entities is characterized by large losses of water due to an outdated
physical infrastructure, poor collection rates, as well as unclear and conflicting management
responsibilities. In both Entities, the cantonal and municipal authorities in charge of district
heating and the water companies have benefited from bilateral support, but comprehensive
strategies on how to best modernize the sector, improve its performance and prepare for the
various steps towards its eventual divestiture have not yet been developed. Discussions were held
with officials in charge of the water and district heating companies at the Ministry of Town
Planning and Housing-Communal Services in Republika Srpska and at the Federation Ministry of
Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry and representatives of the water and district heating
companies in the Federation. While it was recognized that there was an urgent need for investing
in the sector's physical infrastructure, for reorganizing and identifying the competencies and
responsibilities between the various levels (Entity, cantons and municipalities) and for improving
the companies' performance, the details of an appropriate action program have yet to be worked
out. The Credit would assist in carrying out this task.
-9-



(v)    Waste disposal and recycling. In the Federation of BiH, discussions are underway on
how to best organize the collection and disposal/recycling of waste in the municipalities. The
Privatization T.A. Credit would provide funds for studying the feasibility of various options,
including their privatization, and for helping to implement the most suitable option.
(vi)   Air Bosna.   The Government of the Federation of BiH  intends to privatize the
state-owned airline.  In a first step, international experts would evaluate the assets of the
company, including the value of its licenses and routes to a potential buyer, and outline altemative
privatization scenarios. The second step would consist of the preparation of the sale of Air Bosna
to a strategic investor. A merchant bank would be recruited which would, as an agent for and on
behalf of the Government, undertake all the necessary preparations for completing the sale of the
company. The Dutch Government and the World Bank have agreed to assist in these tasks.
(vii) Electricity sector. Preparatory work towards the unbundling of BiH power generation
and distribution companies and their sale to strategic investors is being carried out under the
proposed Power III Credit. There is, therefore, no need to include them under the Privatization
T.A. Credit.
Component III: Technical assistance with unbundling, concessions and
insolvency procedures (consultants)
Some enterprises are not likely to attract strategic investors because they combine, as holdings or
large companies, too many diverse or unrelated business activities, suffer from heavy indebtedness
or insolvency. While the PTAC will concentrate on selling enterprises in their current status
through tenders, the Credit will also take appropriate steps to render such enterprises privatizable
through: (i) "unbundling" of large enterprises and holding companies and performing similar
preparatory steps to attract potential buyers for the separated entities; (ii) ensuring private sector
participation through concession agreements; and (iii) applying insolvency legislation and
accelerated procedures to affected enterprises.
Component IV: Capital Market Development
Although the Credit's main focus is on privatizing enterprises through tendering, it will also assist
in bringing voucher privatization to a successful conclusion by helping to set up regulated and
transparent trading places for citizens once they have become shareholders.  RS and the
Federation have been privatizing both small enterprises and varying portions of the book value of
large enterprises through vouchers, . Although only a handful of companies are likely to be traded
eventually on each stock market in the two Entities, it would be important to provide the
s The total book value being privatized via vouchers amounts to almost KM 20 billion (or US$ 10 billion). In RS, the "sale' of all 830 enterprises
through vouchers has been completed in one round, whereas in the Federation roughly one third of the enterprises (344 out of 944) have been "sold"
in a first round completed in March 200 1. The remaining 600 enterprises (new ones and balance of unsuccessful sale attempts from the first round)
are expected to be "sold" during a second round in October 2001.
- 10 -



future shareholders with an organized and regulated trading place, especially since many
shareholders may want to sell their shares in the near future. Moreover, stock markets may help
soften potential investors' hesitation to buy into enterprises in BiH in as much as they fear to be
unable to repatriate their capital in case they would like to do so.
The capital market component would assist the two Entity governments and the Securities
Commissions in: (i) facilitating the completion of voucher privatization in both Entities; (ii)
creating regulatory frameworks and standards required for a regulated and organized trading of
securities, including the creation and review of a wide range of legislation and degrees (such as
the securities law; stock exchange law; commercial code; accounting law; bankruptcy legislation;
Investment Funds law; etc.); and (iii) strengthening the supervision and enforcement capacity for
the capital market in each Entity.
Bosnia's two Entity markets are likely to be too small to support viable stock markets, and there
is a considerable risk that substantial funds may be spent on sophisticated infrastructures with
corresponding functionality and impact.
The PTAC will help ensure consistency of advice and of institutional arrangements between the
capital markets of the two Entities with the aim of facilitating their mergers and regional
cooperation/integration with other capital markets in the future.
Institutional Support: In addition to the four distinct components, the Credit would also help
strengthen institution building and the administrative capacity for project implementation in key
areas: Senior Privatization Program Advisors in the two privatization agencies; environmental
specialists in the Tender Bureaus, supported by an international expert; and specialists
experienced in setting up the required regulatory frameworks.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Privatization is a critically important prerequisite for introducing a market economy in BiH.
Without comprehensive and deep privatization of all economic activities, creation of a
business-friendly environment and dynamic growth of the private sector, the gradual replacement
of official by private financial support from outside the country will not occur. Moreover, in the
absence of a strong private sector, the impact of the financial support from official sources on
economic growth and the population's wealth will be significantly lower.
Most of the laws and institutional changes required for successful privatization have already been
put in place, though not all of their provisions are conducive to quick privatization. The laws
specifying the objectives and process of privatizing enterprises have been adopted, the logistics of
organizing and carrying out the bidding on enterprises is in place; certificates and vouchers have
been distributed to citizens and are being collected by PIFs; public information campaigns have
been conducted in the media; the lists of enterprises to be privatized through tender and vouchers
have been published; Tender Bureaus have been created. The Privatization Agency in the
Federation and the Directorate for Privatization in the Republika Srpska have been leading the
- 11 -



privatization process competently and apparently with limited political interference. These are
impressive achievements.
The Credit would take into account and further strengthen and fine-tune details of the legislative
and institutional framework already in place in the two Entities. The various experts and advisors
in the FPA, DfP, and Tender Bureaus would operate within this framework. The Credit's
implementation arrangements would be closely coordinated with the privatization support
programs of other donors (IAGP).
3. Benefits and target population:
Accelerated sale of large enterprises through tenders will result in:
*   increased budgetary revenues;
*   enterprise restructuring by strategic/concentrated investors;
*   renewed confidence of the population in the privatization process;
*   strengthening of the private sector in BiH's economy and, ultimately, promise of increased
employment;
•   improved govemance and accountability of enterprise management and development of the
capital market;
-   enhanced knowledge and skills of local experts in privatizing large enterprises.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
(1) Institutional Arrangements under the Credit
Over the past three years, the Entity governments have, with the support of the international
community, been attempting to privatize state-owned enterprises. Targeted programs from
bilateral and multilateral organizations helped prepare enterprise privatization and put in place the
necessary logistical infrastructure. These attempts have had only limited success, partly because
they were based on an advisory concept that failed to recognize the substantial inputs into actual
decision making that is required in enterprise privatization, and partly because structural and
systemic policy reform programs, while providing the necessary frameworks, are not sufficiently
operational to bring about actual company sales. Moreover, Bosnia's privatization programs
were tilted towards voucher privatization and it was recognized only belatedly that tender
privatization is an essential prerequisite for achieving dominant ownership and successful
enterprise restructuring.
Assisted by the International Advisory Group on Privatization (IAGP), of which the Bank is a
member, governments have given more emphasis to tender privatization and selected enterprises
that are considered sellable or that will require preparatory steps to make them privatizable. Even
with IAGP's support, the speed with which state-owned enterprises have been privatized has
increased only moderately. This has been due to the cumbersome coordination process between
the IAGP and the governments and their agencies - FPA and DfP - and within the international
community. Governments have been overwhelmed by the large number of policy issues that
- 12 -



needed to be addressed in an overly complicated policy environment and failed to accord
privatization the priority it deserves.
The PTAC aims at overcoming these hurdles by:
(i)  placing highly skilled and experienced Senior Privatization Advisors directly into the FPA
and DfP. They would both: (a) oversee implementation of the privatization programs, and
(b) assist the FPA and DfP directors in carrying out their daily responsibilities;
(ii)  enabling the governments to recruit local and intemational "dealmakers" who would be
responsible for identifying interested investors and preparing the actual company sales; and
(iii) helping to remove the most likely obstacles to fast enterprise sales, such as environmental
damage, excessive indebtedness, social resistance, etc.
Specifically, the Credit would assist BiH in (i) accelerating privatization with the help of domestic
and international "dealmaker"; (ii) emphasizing the governance aspect of the privatization process
by applying tender privatization in accordance with the law; and (iii) creating sound regulatory
frameworks required for successful privatization of pubic utilities and other forms of private
sector participation; (iv) establishing legislative and regulatory framework for a capital market.
These changes would be accompanied by additional reform outcomes: privatization would be
de-politicized as much as possible; its transparency would increase and the population's
confidence in privatization and economic management in general would be enhanced. Following
successful completion of enterprise privatization, decisions about their restructuring, expansion of
production and exports would be based on economic incentives, rather than administrative and
political interventions.
- 13 -



Chart 1: Institutional Arrangements for Tender Privatization
FPA                                           
Terider Bureaus of DfP and FPA
provide legal, Public Relaiions and                                     _
One General Advisor for each           logisfical suppont to Tender            .                       
Tender Bureau          _        Commnissions and Transaction gl;    E;l 
Tender Commissions for Enterprises A,
|B . .. to be privatized with finding from  |$                                        = 
| USAID, GTZ, EU, the Netherlands |
|Supervision by Team |
|Coordinators funded
by USAID, GTZ, EU
Transactlon Tearnis for
I Enterprises A,B.. .
jfunded by USAID.
*Shaded areas indicate activities funded under the PTAC.
-14 -



(i)    DfP, FPA (CPA)
The FPA and DfP are the executing agencies for all privatization activities funded under the T.A.
Credit, and are responsible for ensuring consistency in the implementation of the respective
privatization programs. The Cantonal Privatization Agencies (CPAs) may also benefit from funds
under the T.A. Credit; details will be worked out between FPA and CPAs.
(ii)   Senior Privatization Program Advisors
The two Entity governments and the Bank consider strengthening of the FPA and DfP an essential
prerequisite for accelerating enterprise privatization and for achieving the project development
objective. Highly skilled and experienced Senior Privatization Program Advisors, to be funded
under the Credit, would therefore be placed into the FPA and DfP. Their tasks would consist of:
(i) helping to ensure consistency in the implementation of the respective large privatization
programs in the two Entities, and to add or fine-tune new policy elements as needed, including on
environmental matters; (ii) coordinating the preparatory work required for the divestiture of the
utility companies; (iii) providing overall guidance to the unbundling of holding companies and
large enterprises, and the application of insolvency legislation; (iv) foster cooperation with the
intemational community, especially with the resident privatization advisors funded under the
bilateral and EU programs; (v) assisting in the resolution of conflicts and bottlenecks as needed;
and (vi) advising on the selection of qualified domestic and intemational experts ("dealmakers").
(iii) Tender Commissions
Tender Commissions represent the interests of the selling authorities for each enterprise in the
process of investor search and negotiations, and are accountable to the respective privatization
agencies (FPA, DfP). In the Federation, each Tender Commission, to be formed for each
transaction, will be comprised of two local experts, both employees of the respective privatization
agency that has jurisdiction over the enterprise, and one intemational expert, and will have
responsibility for the entire transactions process. In Republika Srpska, Tender Commissions,
consisting of up to 5 members, would be established when the tender process is launched, and be
responsible for selecting the winning bidder and negotiations of the sales-purchase agreement.
Tender preparation will be overseen by the Tender Bureau Director.
(iv)   Tender Bureaus
Tender Bureaus are intemal departments of the FPA and DfP, providing logistical, legal,
environmental and public relations/communications support to the Tender Commissions and
Transaction Teams. They enforce the standard tender regulations, and contain three technical
support units - Legal and Public Relations/Communication and Environmental Units. The Legal
Units will be strengthened by intemational legal experts funded by the donor community. In
Republika Srpska, the international expert has been recruited with GTZ funding; in the
Federation, an expert with similar expertise is expected to be recruited shortly. Both Tender
Bureaus intend to employ 1 or 2 staff who would be responsible for handling public relations and
- 15-



communications with the various privatization stakeholders, including the citizens, trade unions,
foreign investor community and NGOs. The "dealmaker" fir-ms to be recruited under the T.A.
Credit would have their own public relations resources and expertise complementing the
respective Tender Bureau units. In each Tender Bureau, two environmental specialists, supported
by an international expert, will help ensure that environmental concerns will be addressed as an
integral part of tender privatization (see E.5.).
(v)    Transaction Teams
Transaction teams consist of local and international "dealmakers" engaged in preparing tender
documents, support search and selection of winning bidders and help conclude sales negotiations.
They are selected for their prowess in understanding investor behavior and insights into
"matchmaking" leading to successful completion of sales of tendered enterprises.  In the
Federation, transaction teams will be directly supervised by the FPAs' and CPAs' Tender
Commissions; in Republika Srpska, they will report to the DfP's Tender Bureau Director with
additional scrutiny of deliverables provided by a Commission for Reviewing Enterprise
Documentation.
The number of transaction teams to be recruited under the T.A. Credit would depend on the
number of enterprises to be offered simultaneously, and on the suitability and transferability of
their skills. The size, profile and skill mix of the transaction teams will depend on the profile and
type of enterprises to be offered in batches. Two types of transaction teams are expected to be
recruited:
(a) Firms. Investment banks or companies will assist with the sale of groups of
enterprises in Component (1), Component (2) and Component (3).
Firms will be expected to have extensive experience with similar enterprises, to have
substantial financial and risk-taking capacity, and to use their worldwide professional
networks. They will operate with considerable autonomy within the terms of contracts that
will be carefully tailored to avoid legal ambiguities, with clearly stated baseline and target
performances, and efficient dispute resolution arrangements.
Compensation of teams should, wherever appropriate, include a retainer and a success fee.
Success fees will be paid upon successful completion of enterprise sales. Retainer fees
would be at market rates (to attract the leading firms), plus reasonable cost allowances
agreed with the DfP and FPA. Resource requirements of the firms beyond the basic
centralized services provided by the privatization authorities (FPA, CPAs, DfP), including
additional short term experts, local staff, translators, and drivers should be reflected in the
cost proposal and will be contract employees of the firms (not procured by the privatization
agencies).
(b)  Individual Teams.   They  will consist of both  domestic  and  international
functional/industry experts, and consortia of free-lance consultants.  They would be
deployed for enterprises in Component (1), Component (2) and possibly Component (3). In
- 16 -



contrast to firms, individual teams would: (i) be paid on retainer fee basis with the
possibility of some incentives for achieving desired turnover of privatization transactions;
(ii) not be responsible for recruiting local staff or managing associated budgets, which would
be the responsibility of the respective privatization agencies.
The transaction teams ("dealmakers") - firms or individual teams - funded under the T.A. Credit
would report directly to the Directors of the respective Tender Bureaus. This arrangement
reflects the importance of the direct accountability of the "dealmakers" to the Tender Bureaus and
thereby the DfP and FPA as Executing Agencies.
Transaction teams funded by GTZ, EU, USAID and the Netherlands report to Team Coordinators
from the respective donor agency.
(2) Criteria for Selecting the Winning Bidder
In order to ensure an open and competitive bidding process, the authorities and the Bank team
have agreed, after having consulted with members of the IAGP, to apply the following criteria for
selecting the winning bidder:
(i)  Tender is the principal method of sale and there should always be a winner, as long as at
least one offer has been received. The "direct sales" method should not be applied for the
enterprises the privatization of which is supported under this Credit.
(ii)  The highest price offered for the equity tendered should be the dominant award criterion,
conditional upon investor due diligence, consideration of payment terms favoring cash sales
and short payment/investment periods, regardless of nominal book valaes. For large
enterprises, cash on closing is the norm as the buyer is assumed to be financially strong; the
Government (seller) should not be expected to provide financing for the buyer. For smaller
enterprises, where domestic buyers are sought, the Government may agree to accept a series
of payments over time.
In many countries, a two stage process has proven to be practical and efficient. In a first
stage, the different bids would be evaluated in terms of non-price criteria, such as reputation
and capabilities the bidder (up to 50 points), proposed investment (up to 25 points) and
business plan (up to 25 points). In a second stage, price, including debt assumed, would be
the sole criterion, but only bids from bidders scoring, say, at least 70 out of 100 possible
points in the first stage would be considered. Selections based on this approach would tend
to be more subjective but they would address the concern that the worst candidate for
strategic investor might offer the highest price. However, in the event that no bidder scored
above 70 points, either a new tender would have to be announced in an attempt to attract
new bidders, or alternatively, all bids would have to be considered, with the sale awarded to
the highest bidder.
(iii) Future investment may become an important element for selecting the winning bidder. It
would, however, be important to ensure that the sales agreement specifies a rather short
- 17 -



investment period (some two to three years). The Government needs to be vigilant in
monitoring implementation of such promises.
(iv) Assumption of debt, by the buyer, may be needed to render an enterprise financially viable;
it should take place at the time of the sale agreement.
Since both assumption of debt and investment commitments add value to the company and benefit
the buyer, the Tender Commissions should give lower weighting to these two criteria than to cash
payments.
It is usually quite difficult to enforce other tender criteria such as job retention or continuation of
line of business. Job retention should preferably be dealt with through separate government
programs. Other interference in the commercial operations of privatized companies is unjustified
and should be avoided.
(3) Process of Tender Privatization.
(i)  Tender documentation package contents follow standardized guidelines described in the
Tender Regulations and follow best practices. Tender sales should be based on uniform
purchase contracts, including contingent liabilities for environmental compliance, for
treatment of employment redundancy, for treatment of residual state equity in terms of
governance implications, for treatment of possible concessions to the buyer, etc.
Case-by-case privatization should be avoided as much as possible.
(ii) In the Federation, tender documents are approved by respective Tender Commissions of the
FPA and CPAs. In Republika Srpska, documents will be approved by the DfP and
Privatization Commission comprised of representatives from the Government and
international donor community.  Tender Comnmissions are created when the tender
documents have been approved; the decision to launch the tender is made by the DfP.
(iii) The tenders are announced in international and domestic media according to standardized
tender guidelines following best practices, using resources provided by the Tender Bureaus
(public relations/communications specialists and own budget).  Firmns hired under
"success-fee" arrangements will commit the required resources to the tender promotion
efforts and investor search process.
(iv) Within the period stipulated in the regulations, prospective buyers are expected to submit
bids that are accompanied with financial guarantees of serious commitment to engage in
purchasing the enterprise.
(v)  Within the period stipulated in the regulations starting from the closing date of the tender, in
the interest of transparency and fairness to all prospective buyers, the Tender Commission
will review all bids for validity i.e. compliance with official tender regulations.
Non-compliant bidders will be disqualified and informed immediately.
- 18-



(vi) After public opening of bids (all bidders are invited to attend), the Tender Commission
scores bids according to bid evaluation criteria that were adopted in consultation with the
Senior Privatization Program Advisor and the "dealmakers".
(vii) The Tender Commissions select the winning bidder within 15 days of start of bid evaluation
and requests the privatization agency (FPA, CPA, or DfP) to inform the winning bidder
within 5 days of the decision and invite the bidder to negotiations.
(viii) Tender Commissions initiate negotiations with the winning bidder, including on terms and
conditions for carrying out an environmental audit. Upon successful completion of
negotiations, the Sales-Purchase Agreement is signed between the buyer (strategic investor)
and the seller (Director of the FPA, CPA or DfP, representing the owner of the enterprise)
within 3 days of conclusion of negotiations. The public is informed of the enterprise sale
within 5 days of signing of the Sales-Purchase Agreement.
(ix) Court registration of new  ownership officially transferring all ownership rights and
management control to the strategic investor is performed according to established legal
provisions, requiring registration of all shareholders by the Share Registry, organization of
shareholder assembly to elect officers and statutes, and submission of a formal application to
the court.
- 19 -



Chart 2: Process of Tender-Based Privatization
Preparation for Privatization
o      "dealmakers" prepare tender documentation package
o      Internal approval of tender documentation
o      Set up Tender Commissions
o      Sales announcement and promotion
o      Environmental audits
Registration of Interest
o      Prospective buyers submit bid security
o      Prospective buyers submit bidding documents including final bids
Bid Evaluation and Selecting Successful Bidder
o      Tender Commission checks the qualification of the bidding documents
o      Tender Commission calculates bids scores based on predetermined criteria
o      Tender Commission selects the highest score as the successful bidder
Contract Negotiation and Registration
o      Tender Commission and successful bidder negotiate and finalize the Sales-
Purchase Agreement
o      DfP/FPA(CPA) approves the Sales-Purchase Agreement
o      Successful investor registers the new enterprise ownership in the Courts
- 20 -



(4) Implementation Period
The project will be implemented over 36 months commencing September 1, 2001, and will be
subject to continuous monitoring and evaluation and a mid-term review in February 2003.
(5) Project Implementation Units
The Directorate for Privatization (DfP) in Republika Srpska and the Privatization Agency in the
Federation (FPA) would be responsible for the overall execution of the Privatization T.A. Credit.
The Credit would be implemented with the help of two separate Project Implementation Units
(PIUs), one in Republika Srpska (Development and Employment Fund (DEF)) and one in the
Federation (Foundation for Sustainable Development (FSD)). They would assist in implementing
several Bank supported projects. Both PIUs would recruit an international privatization expert
who would be in charge of overseeing implementation of the T.A. Credit. The procurement,
financial management and accounting capacity in the DEF and the FSD would be assessed and
strengthened as necessary. Depending on their capacity and needs an experienced and reputable
procurement advisor may be recruited, jointly, by the DfP and FPA to reinforce the PIUs'
procurement capacity (Annex 6(a)).
Over time, PIU activities would be streamlined into regular government functions. Once the
recruitment of the Senior Privatization Program advisors and "dealmakers" has been completed,
responsibilities currently located in the PIUs would be transferred, step by step, and after
appropriate training of the staff concerned, into the FPA and DfP, the project Executing
Agencies.
(6) Financial Management
The IDA Credit is a single operation with two parts, one in each Entity (one in Republika Srpska
and the other in Federation of BiH). It will be lent to the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
which will on-lend the proceeds of the Credit to the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
(FBiH) and Republika Srpska (RS). Each Entity will be responsible for its own financial
management of the project. For the detailed financial management arrangements, please refer to
Annex 6 (b).
In accordance with OP/BP 10.02 and the LACI requirement, a Bank accredited financial
management specialist reviewed the proposed financial management systems between January and
May 2001, and found that both FSD and DEF satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management
requirements. However, neither FSD nor DEF have in place an adequate project financial
management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information
on the status of the project as required by the Bank/IDA for PMR-based disbursements. An
agreed action plan (see Annex 6 (b)), to produce a system that can provide accurate and timely
PMRs, has been agreed with FSD and DEF, including:
*   On April 23, 2001, the Bank received a letter from the Treasury (MOF) confirming that the
Privatization Technical Assistance Credit has been included in the global auditing contract.
*   By April 25, 2001, the Federation of BiH finalized the institutional arrangement for the
merger of the FSD, LORA and LID.
*   By April 15, 2001, FSD and DEF were to complete their standard Financial Manuals. They
- 21 -



were completed by that date.
*   By June 30, 2001, complete the design and development of accounting software for the
preparation of all PMRs in accordance with the PMR templates provided.
*   By effectiveness date, finalization of 2001 Budget, including recording and allocation of
total budget in the accounting system.
*   By December 31, 2001, finalization of the 2002 Budget, including recording and allocation
of total budget in the accounting system.
*   By February 15, 2002, produce reliable PMRs satisfactory to the World Bank.
*   By November 15, 2002, produce reliable budget and budget revision when compared
against the actual.
*   By November 15, 2002, FSD and DEF are expected to be capable of meeting satisfactory
supervision report, satisfactory withdrawal applications, and satisfactory audit, especially
internal controls.
*   By November 30, 2002, review of the financial management arrangements by the Financial
Management Specialist for readiness for PMR based disbursements.
The project financial statements (including consolidated project financial statements) would be
prepared in accordance with the format provided by the Bank. This would include a separate
opinion by the auditor on the operation of Special Account (disbursements made against certified
statement of expenditures or PMRs). An independent auditor acceptable to the World Bank
would audit the project financial statements, and the audit report would be sent to the Bank
within six months of the end of the fiscal year. The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic
Relations (MFTER) of BiH has signed a 3-year contract (1998-2000, renewal yearly) with
PriceWaterhouseCoopers Netherlands in June 1999 for the audit of all Bank's financed
non-revenue earning projects in BiH. Based on the satisfactory performance, the MFTER
renewed the contract with the same auditor for the 1999 and 2000 audits. It is expected that the
Ministry of Treasury (MOT), the new ministry responsible for the audit, would continue with the
global audit arrangement after the expiry of the initial contract. This arrangement would be
acceptable to the Bank. It is expected that the cost of the audit will be partly financed from the
Credit.
Retroactive financing of SDR 200,000 for Components A & B of the Project was agreed upon
during the negotiations for consultant services after July 2001, but before signing of the
Agreement. Disbursements from the Credit would initially be made on the traditional system
(reimbursements with full documentation and against Statements of Expenditure (SOE), and
direct payments) and would be considered for conversion to the new disbursement procedures
(i.e., based on Project Management Reports - PMRs) as soon as the FMS is operating
satisfactorily. The target date for this conversion is about 1 year after expected project start date.
Proceeds from the Credit would be allocated in accordance with Table C, Annex 6. To facilitate
timely project implementation, the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina will establish,
maintain and operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, two separate Special
Accounts denominated in Euros for the Federation and for Republika Srpska. Currently local
banks have not yet reached the level of sound financial management that would be required to
ensure smooth and efficient project implementation. It is therefore recommended that banks
outside BiH be used for the two Special Accounts.
- 22 -



Each Entity will prepare quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs), which would be
submitted to the Bank within 45 days of the end of each quarter. These reports would be used for
project management purposes for tracking project progress, procurement and disbursement. The
first PMRs will be submitted at the end of the first quarter in which disbursements commence,
probably on February 15, 2002. Initially, the Foundations will only be required to submit key
PMR reports. Full PMR reporting will commence for the quarter ending September 30, 2002.
The PMRs will be in a format discussed during negotiations and follow examples given in the
Bank's LACI Implementation Handbook.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Alternatives to the Privatization T.A. Credit consist of (a) sale of enterprises through tendering
with the help of grant funding only; and (b) no external support to BiH's large enterprise
privatization. To rely on grant funding from bilateral and multilateral sources exclusively would
result in a less than full ownership of the privatization process by the authorities and, possibly, less
than optimal use of international expertise and experience. Most likely, privatization would be
slower than desired because the amount of grant funding would be limited.
Alternative (b) would result in an even slower sale of enterprises with a high risk of insufficient
transparency and accountability of the process. Privatization of the utilities will require careful
preparation and application of "best practices". Funds to be provided under the Privatization T.A.
Credit will be urgently needed, both because grant funds are not expected to become available in
sufficient amounts for this task and because the IDA Credit will help ensure that impartial and
efficient privatization advice will be provided in a timely fashion.
A combination of borrowing funds under IDA and grant funding from other donors was,
therefore, considered the most suitable approach for accelerating large enterprise privatization.
The Privatization T.A. Credit will be coordinated closely with the IAGP at all stages of project
implementation.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
BiH's privatization process has been supported through the ongoing Enterprise and Bank
Privatization Adjustment Credit (EBPAC, FY99) and technical assistance from other donors. The
project is also related to the Business Environment Adjustment Credit (BAC) currently under
preparation. The BAC aims at removing the many obstacles domestic and foreign investors and
businessmen already operating in BiH have been facing. Requirements for entering or exiting
from markets would be streamlined and simplified and officials at the various administrative levels
and the business community would be encouraged to develop a business friendly partnership. The
Privatization T.A. project will complement both the EBPAC and the BAC and promote close
coordination with other donors supporting privatization in BiH.
- 23 -



Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                       Project                   (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                      Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Private and Financial Sector        Enterprise and Bank                S              S
Privatization Adjustment Credit
(EBPAC)
Pnvate and Financial Sector         Business Environment
Adjustment Credit (BAC)*
Other development agencies
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
* The BAC project is currently under preparation, hence no ratings are yet available.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The proposed project design incorporates best practices from ongoing and completed
privatizations in transition countries. Bank and Operations Evaluation Department (OED) reviews
show that privatization of large enterprises tended to be successful when:
(i) there is strong political commitment to privatization;
(ii) the process is transparent and authorities in charge of selling enterprises are accountable;
(iii) clearly established procedures are followed based on a legal framework assigning the
respective roles of the participants in the process and reducing ad-hoc interventions and
post-bid negotiations to a minimum;
(iv) the sale price is the dominant, if not only, criterion for selecting the winning bidder;
(v) concentrated ownership in the form of a dominant new owner committed to transferring
capital and management skills provides the best "guarantee" for successful post-privatization
enterprise restructuring.
Experience has also shown that "twinning" the expertise and knowledge of local and international
experts enhances the chances for successful privatization.
These lessons have been incorporated into the design and implementation arrangements of the
project.
- 24 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Enterprise and bank privatization has been slow in both Entities. Very few enterprises have been
privatized. Long delays have been due to difficulties in settling ownership questions, establishing
opening balance sheets and preparing privatization programs by companies' managers,
cumbersome privatization methods, interventions by political parties into enterprise operations
and at times a general reluctance to fully embrace the concept of private ownership. BiH's
politicians have yet to demonstrate their full commitment to a private market economy.
At the same time, the international community for a long time was busy focusing on post-war
reconstruction at the expense of structural issues. High unemployment, continued exodus of
young citizens and declining economic growth rates make it now imperative to accord highest
priority to an accelerated privatization. Considerable delays in forming governments following the
elections in late 2000 have resulted in further privatization delays. Last but not least, in many
cases municipalities have been unsuccessful in attracting buyers for the companies offered for sale.
Recently, the authorities seem to exhibit an increased commitment to tender privatization:
(i)  the DfP and the FPA have been empowered to privatize enterprises with a greater degree of
autonomy than in many other transition countries. This augurs well for the relative
"de-politicization" of the process;
(ii) the interaction and dialogue between the privatization authorities and the international
community has become increasingly more responsible and productive, albeit not always
conclusive;
(iii) the recent publication of the lists of enterprises to be sold in both Entities through mass
privatization programs and tendering demonstrates a commitment to move ahead. In early
2001, 13 tenders were announced in RS and 12 in the Federation and additional tenders
have been announced regularly;
(iv) the creation of Tender Bureaus and appointment of their directors is an important sign of
government ownership in both Entities;
(v)  privatization advisors funded by USAID, GTZ, EBRD, EU, the Netherlands and IFC have
been assisting the authorities in preparing privatization deals.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has been at the forefront of supporting BiH' structural reforms, both in public finances
and private sector development and banking. Adjustment operations but also projects containing
relevant policy components have guided government reform policies in many areas. The
Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment Credit (EBPAC) in particular, set the stage for the
first round of private sector reforms, namely, privatization of small enterprises and preparation of
divestiture of banks and large state-owned enterprises. Implementation of the EBPAC has,
however, shown that adjustment operations can not be fully successful unless they are supported
- 25 -



in parallel, by substantial technical assistance in the key policy reform  areas.  Assuming
satisfactory progress, the Bank intends to provide continued support to BiH's structural reforms
in private sector development with the proposed Business Environment Adjustment Credit
(BAC). The value added of the Privatization T.A. Credit is as follows:
(i)  concrete and "hands-on" support to BiH's privatization program in the form of domestic and
international privatization experts ("dealmakers") that will enable the governments to
accelerate The Tender sale of enterprises through tenders;
(ii) application of internationally best practices and sales/marketing techniques that otherwise
might not be available to a country as small as BiH;
(iii) provision of a structured financing, recruitment, procurement and financial management and
reporting process;
(iv) a flexible funding mechanism that allows for inclusion of enterprises requiring privatization
assistance on an "as needed" basis.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit   NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The potential economic benefit of privatizing BiH companies with the help of domestic and
international "dealmakers", and the expected subsequent enterprise restructuring, though difficult
to quantify with certainty, is likely to be significant. As experience in many transition countries in
the region shows, output, profits and employment have risen in privatized companies - after a
period of adjustment. The phasing out of enterprise subsidies will result in budgetary savings that
can be directed to more productive purposes.
Experience also shows that the use of reputable investment bankers tends to result in privatization
receipts larger than their costs. Their market contacts and experience enables them, in close
cooperation with the domestic experts, to evaluate and sell the companies to investors interested
in restructuring them and make them profitable. In fact, experience seems to indicate that
potential investors may hesitate to enquire about companies in BiH unless the sale offer is
accompanied and organized by qualified investment bankers or experienced individual
"dealmakers", because they fear that the sale may not be transparent or unfair, or because the
offering memorandum may lack the minimum quality. The trading arrangements and monitoring
put in place by the "dealmakers" will help raise the quality of the supervision and transparency of
trading and registration system on the capital market, especially with regard to minority
shareholder protection; successful tendering and sale of companies will contribute to the growth
of the capital market.
- 26 -



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (sec Annex 4)
Financial analysis of enterprise privatization differs from economic analysis because book values
and prices applied to assets and liabilities do not reflect market conditions. International
investment banks and domestic experts will in each case conduct a feasibility analysis based on
international prices and assess the effect of the distortions on the value of the company in
question. This is a difficult task and experience from countries that have undergone successful
privatizations, such as Estonia, Hungary or East Germany, suggests that attracting first rate
privatization experts is absolutely essential for carrying out rapid and effective enterprise
privatization. The FPA and the DfP will therefore need to offer competitive salaries to the
domestic and international "dealmakers".
Fiscal limpact:
The sale of some 140 companies with the help of international and domestic experts will generate
substantial budgetary revenues. These funds will be earmarked and deposited in a transparent
manner into accounts, and be available for spending for limited and agreed upon purposes. But he
fiscal impact of the project will go far beyond this direct impact: (i) profitable enterprises will pay
taxes and employ workers thereby reducing unemployment payments; (ii) privatized enterprises
will no longer receive budgetary subsidies or guarantees for bank credits; (iii) and governments
will be free of potential future liabilities for any losses caused by the companies.
3. Technical:
The technical resources provided under the project consist of hardware and software needed for
implementing the project and amount to an estimated 3 percent of total project costs. The
technical requirements will be determined in close cooperation with the Executing Agencies, the
"dealmakers" and the PIUs
4. Institutional:
4.1 Exccuting agencies:
The Directorate for Privatization (DfP) and the Federation Privatization Agency (FPA) will be the
Executing Agencies for the project.
4.2 Project management:
The PIUs - the DEF in Republika Srpska and FSD in the Federation - will manage implementation
of the Project on a day-to-day basis. They will assist in the recruitment of domestic and
international "dealmakers" and ensure application of sound financial management, procurement
and accounting practices.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement of goods and consultant services to be financed under the Credit will be conducted
in accordance with the Bank guidelines - Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated
January 1995 (revised January and August 1996, September 1997 amendment) and Guidelines -
- 27 -



Selection and Employment of Consultants by World bank Borrowers dated January 1997,
September 1997 amendment). Procurement would involve technical assistance (approximately
[91] percent of total cost), purchasing of goods ([3] percent of total project cost). The remainder
of the Credit will finance incremental operating costs (16] percent of total project cost). All
procurement will be carried out by the two PIUs, assisted by experienced specialists.
4.4 Financial management issues:
DEF and FSD comply fully with the audit covenants in existing Bank-financed projects and there
were no significant accounting issues reported by the auditors in the most recent audits, for the
year ended December 31, 1999 and also for the closed projects for the period ended June 30,
2000 and September 30, 2000 respectively.
FSD and DEF would generate and maintain vouchers and supporting documentation for
expenditures on all activities of the project. The financial flows for all activities under the PTAC
will be: (a) direct payment from the Credit Account to consulting firmns for large contracts; (b)
payments from Special Accounts or local bank accounts to consultants for small contracts; and (c)
payment from local bank accounts for the project recurrent operating expenses.
From the financial management perspective, the Privatization T.A. project is considered a
high-risk project. In addition to the general overall risk associated with trying to sell a large
number of state-owned enterprises to strategic investors in a complex institutional and
organizational environment, the following financial management risks could adversely affect
project implementation: (i) inadequate internal control mechanisms in FSD and DEF to manage
the flow of informnation, data, transactions and payments; (ii) delays in preparation of project
management reports; (iii) poor accounting environment and few qualified accountants in BiH; (iv)
misuse of project funds. In addition to the financial management risks, the Privatization T.A.
project carries considerable implementation risks. These risks are considered as manageable due
to the various risk-mitigation measures taken (see Annex 6 (b)).
The project's financing plan, which includes the Credit from the Bank, and the project's planned
expenditures have been realistically estimated and the project is deemed financially sustainable.
A monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system will be established in both PIlUs. Information about
the project progress will be collected through relevant documents and in the course of supervision
missions. The provision of informnation and the donors' access to the monitoring missions is an
essential element of the M&E mechanism. The two PlUs would monitor progress against specific
performnance and impact monitoring indicators. Number of companies sold, privatization
preparatory steps completed and training for the local Project Managers in the PlUs and the
environmental specialists in the Tender Bureaus accomplished would serve as such indicators.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5. I Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Past legacy and current constraints. Experience has shown that addressing environmnental
- 28 -



concerns through appropriate provisions are absolutely essential for implementing privatization
programs successfully. Most serious potential investors will refrain from even considering buying
a company with environmental problems. Environmental damage is particularly grave in BiH,
partly because regulations were rarely enforced under the previous system, partly because the war
in the first half of the 1990s caused additional damage and partly because the country's current
political set up does not favor a systematic and comprehensive approach to solving urgent
environmental problems. Low incomes and chronic budgetary problems of both the State and the
Entities have prevented environmental issues from occupying a more prominent place in the
country's political agenda. This situation is not likely to improve in the near future.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
A start towards new environmental standards. Aware of the risk that potential investors may
hesitate to buy a company because they are uncertain about the future path BiH might follow with
regard to environmental policies and standards, the governments have recently begun to take
initial steps towards creating a legislative and regulatory framework that could serve as a bridge
towards European Union (EU) standards. In the longer term, Bosnia and Herzegovina wishes to
align its legislation with EU law. It has therefore begun, with assistance from the EU, to carry out
a stock taking exercise with the aim of (i) assessing the environmental legislation currently
existing in BiH, and legislation that has been drafted or is in the process of being drafted locally.
The purpose of this effort is to demonstrate objectively to what extent such legislation forms an
adequate basis for the future transposition of EU law to BiH; and (ii) of identifying a set of
legislative amendments that, if enacted, would bring existing and or proposed draft legislation in
both Entities into alignment with each other and with the basic principles of EU law.
Alternatively, if it can be demonstrated that existing and /or proposed draft legislation cannot
reasonably be amended in order to achieve the objective mentioned under (ii), new legislation will
need to be drafted. The six laws to be developed under either of these alternatives with the help of
the project range from an Environmental Framework Law, to a Law on Water Protection and a
Law providing an integrated framework for environmental licensing, including reference to
supporting procedures such as enviromnental impact assessment, based upon the concept of
integrated pollution prevention and control.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: not applicable
Significant institutional changes to be put in place. Before a rigorous transposition of the EU
legislation could, however, be realized, significant institutional changes will need to be put- in
place. Therefore, although the underlying aim of the EU project is to produce legislation that
supports the future transposition of EU law, the first priority is that the legislation must be
capable of implementation at the earliest opportunity. The EU project underway will therefore pay
particular attention to what transitional arrangements might best facilitate this, but always with a
view to supporting full transportation of EU law at an unspecified future date. To apply this
approach  successfully, requires, for example,   familiarity  with the principles of legal
approximation as described, for example, in the "Guide to the Approximation of European Union
Environmental Legislation". In addition, in designing the various phases of the project - inception,
- 29 -



development, consultation and review and final report phase - particular attention has been paid to
generating a sense of "ownership" of the draft legislation and to ensuring commitment to its
implementation at the highest level.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed enviromnent management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Consultations with non-governmental organizations and official agencies involved in and
responsible for observing compliance with environmental audits and plans of actions will be
carried out as part of tender privatization. Process of environmental screening and EA reports on
environmental impacts and management plan is discussed further in the following section (5.5).
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Procedures to be followed under the Privatization T.A. Credit. Conscious of the fact that
BiH's current environmental legislative and enforcement capacity are weak, and that it will take
time until it will be able to adopt and enforce EU legislation and standards, the two Entity
governments intend to apply the following concrete procedure and steps in the Privatization T.A.
Credit:
(i)    Under the Credit, environmental audits will be carried out for all enterprises to be sold.
The cost of these nornally will be borne by the investor (but see (vi) below). The amount
of work required and, consequently, costs will of course depend on the nature of the
business and standards to be applied in carrying out the audit. For large companies,
especially those in environmentally sensitive sectors, the audits may take time,
(exceptionally several months). But most of them will be completed in a matter of weeks.
(ii)    The audit will have two components. The first will estimate the environmental damages
from past actions that are still present, and the costs of actions to mitigate them. The
second will look at the ongoing activities of the enterprise. From both of these the audit
will prepare a plan of action that lists, in order of priority, the measures needed to make
sure that ongoing activities are in compliance with appropriate environmental standards. In
order to ensure that the most important actions will be taken first, the potential investor
and the Govermment will have to agree on the plan of action in the order of priorities
listed.
(iii)   The environmental audit and action plan will be part and parcel of the privatization deal
of the company in question. The FPA and the DfP will therefore be in charge of
organizing and monitoring the environmental requirements of the T.A. Credit. The Credit
will provide funds for training two local specialist in environmental audit matters in each
Tender Bureau, supported by an international expert in environmental audits.
- 30 -



(iv)   The Bank reserves the right to review the audit and make appropriate suggestions.
(v)   In order to facilitate a deal, the investor and the Government may agree on limiting the
remediation of the damage in question and thereby the costs associated with it to a
certain portion of the total, more comprehensive, remediation. In that case, the
Government and the investor will agree on a credible follow-up program specifying the
measures and steps, implementation schedule and funding plan, required to remedy the
remaining damage not yet addressed under the limited remediation plan. The follow up
program will be subject to approval by the Bank.
(vi)  If a deal fails to go through the money spent on the audit will have been "wasted". In
order to avoid undue hesitation on the part of the potential investor to carry out an audit,
the Bank will assist the investor and privatization authorities in mobilizing grant funds,
especially for audits in large and environmentally sensitive companies, from the EU and
bilateral donors.
(vii) In carrying out the audits the question of which standards to apply arises. Neither EU
standards, nor Bosnian standards are likely to satisfy the criteria of sensible, relevant and
enforceable standards. It was agreed to apply the World Bank environmental guidelines as
point of negotiation.
(viii) In order to ensure compliance of environmental standards by the new owner of the
company, the Entity governments will upgrade their monitoring system by adding
monitoring equipment in order to improve their capacity to enforce compliance with
agreed upon standards. In order to minimize the risk that such upgrading may be delayed,
the Government and the Bank will agree on an action plan on how to best put such an
upgraded system in place.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Many of Bosnia's state - owned enterprises have for years performned at productivity levels well
below their potential thereby preventing workers, managers and the state from receiving higher
salaries and tax revenues. Following successful tendering of enterprises, the new owners can be
expected to install modern equipment and production methods in the companies which will, in the
short term, have a number of negative social consequences: (i) unemployment is likely to rise; (ii)
certain services traditionally delivered by state owned enterprises, such as housing and health
services, will be discontinued by the privatized company; (iii) job seekers may have to relocate or
travel longer distances to find new employment. Last but not least, privatization will cause
anxieties generated by the fear of not knowing what to expect from the new owners.
These factors, real and perceived, are likely to result, if uncontrolled, in considerable resistance to
privatization, and tender sales in particular. Realizing that (i) the existing social safety net and
unemployment compensation systems require funding levels that are not affordable, and (ii)
financing of social assistance is primarily the responsibility of the municipalities, whereas the
- 31 -



Entity governments are responsible for policy development and formulation, and that (iii) labor
markets are rigid, the governments have been pursuing, simultaneously, the following policies
and reform steps to soften the social impact of privatization:
(a)   Reform of the Social Protection Systems. This includes the development of social
protection strategies for both Entities and support to the implementation of such strategies
through reforms of the overall structure of cash transfer programs, improved financing
mechanisms for social assistance, and overhauling other transfer programs such as veterans'
benefits, disability programs and unemployment insurance. The reform also aims at rendering the
delivery system more effective and applying stricter needs and entitlement criteria.
(b)   Labor markets. The highly rigid labor relations frameworks in both Entities represent
substantial barriers to economic restructuring. Reforms aim at (i) raising labor market flexibility in
order to improve the chances for faster re- integration of laid off workers into productive
employment, and (ii) improving the core functions of the employment services by strengthening
the job brokerage function of the Employment Institutes, and at (iii) raising the quality of the
labor market analytical and informational services.
These reforms are being pursued under the Social Assistance Adjustment Credit (SAAC) and the
Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit (SOTAC), both supported by the Bank.
It will, however, take time until these reforms will be fully implemented and yield the desired
results, including cost savings. Methodological problems in predicting the speed at which
enterprises will find strategic buyers ( and hence the resulting unemployment) and in forecasting
the extent to which jobless workers will seek social assistance once they no longer qualify for
unemployment compensations make it difficult to estimate the additional funds that might be
needed to compensate those who will lose their jobs in the wake of enterprise privatization.
Making different assumptions about the speed with which jobs might be lost, and about the
duration of the incremental unemployment and replacement rates, the projected additional funds
required over the project's implementation period (FY 2002 through FY 2004) to compensate
those who have become unemployed as a result of privatization could range from KM 22 million
in the most favorable scenario to KM 44 million in the worst scenario, with an estimated KM 30
million as the most probable scenanro.
Since BiH's current unemployment and social protection systems suffer already from chronic
underfunding, the Entity governments have decided to apply funds from other sources to help
defray the social costs associated with enterprise privatization.
(c)    Sales proceeds. In accordance with the respective privatization laws, the Entity
governments will use some of the sales revenues obtained through The Tender sale of enterprises
or portions of their assets for developmental and employment programs, mainly in the
municipalities.
(d)   Counterpart funds. Both Entity governments could apply portions of the counterpart
funds provided by the Bank under ongoing structural and sectoral adjustrnent operations towards
- 32 -



payments for unemployment benefits.
(e)   Support to SMEs. As in other economies, small and medium enterprises provide the
most promising outlook for absorbing workers who may be laid off as part of tender privatization.
The governments have therefore given high priority to programs aimed at creating and supporting
the development of this sector. Many bilateral and multilateral donors target considerable portions
of their support programs, including credit lines to SME promotion. The Southeast Europe
Enterprise Development (SEED), a joint World Bank - IFC initiative, focuses on assisting
entrepreneurs in developing sound business plans thereby facilitating their access to bank credits.
Similarly, the governments have begun to consider removing the various administrative barriers
and bureaucratic obstacles domestic and foreign businessmen have been facing, both with regard
to investing and conducting regular business. The Bank will support such reforms with the
Business Environment Adjustment Credit (BAC).
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Participatory approach and public awareness campaign. In the course of preparing the
PTAC, the Bank and government teams cooperated closely which resulted in a strong ownership
of the project concept and implementation arrangements by the Entity governments. Intensive and
regular consultations took also place with the IAGP and the Associations of Employers. The
Credit will help fund a public awareness campaign highlighting the importance of tender
privatization for good governance, successful enterprise restructuring and, ultimately, increased
and more rewarding employment opportunities.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
In the course of finalizing the documentation for tender sales of state enterprises, the various civil
society organizations and NGOs interested in a transparent and fair privatization process will be
consulted. Trade Unions, Associations of Employers, Chambers of Commerce and community
councils in particular will be heard with the aim of taking into account their respective concerns.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project's social development outcomes consist in a transparent and effective transfer of state
owned assets into the hands of dominant owners capable and experienced in restructuring
enterprises, and in expanding production and employment without delays. The project's emphasis
on appropriate institutional arrangements such as separating the technical from the political
decision making process, on applying agreed upon criteria for the bidding process and selecting
the winning bidder, as well as making environmental audits and credible follow up plans an
integral part of the tender process are likely to increase the probability of achieving the project's
social development outcomes.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in termns of social development outcomes?
Project performance in terms of social development outcomes will be monitored with the help of
- 33 -



performance indicators and monitoring and evaluation plan outlined in Annex 1.
7. Safeguard Policies:
71 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                          ~~~~~~~~Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)              C Yes @ No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                      C Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                       0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                            Y Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) X                                      Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                         Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                 X Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)      0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)             C Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensuL-e compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not applicable
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Project sustainability, defined as conclusive transfer of state-owned enterprises into the hands of
strategic investors and subsequent successful enterprise restructuring is high, because (i) there
now seems to be a strong commitment to privatization in the two Entities; (ii) financial support by
the international community is tied to measurable progress towards structural reforms, including
enterprise and bank privatization; (iii) the transfer of skills from international "dealmakers" to
domestic privatization experts and vice versa is likely to create an environment conducive to
further privatizations after the project has come to a closure; (iv) investments carried out by the
new owners will create a momentum that is likely to attract additional investors to BiH. In order
to demonstrate the positive effects of the project quickly, all parties involved - the Executing
Agencies (DfP and FPA), the Tender Bureaus, the "dealmakers" and the two PlUs - will
concentrate on a few promising enterprise privatizations early on. The results of the privatization
of the utility companies will be particularly visible for the population as their performance is
expected to improve significantly in the medium term.
As in all privatizations, the project will face considerable risks. The most important ones relate to
(a) the difficulty of identifying and attracting potential investors and buyers of Bosnia's
enterprises; and (b) resistance on the part of current managers, workers and the population at
large to privatization because it will involve layoffs, new thinking and ways of doing things as well
as relocations associated with the search of new job opportunities.
Measures to mitigate against these risks consist of (a) recruiting "dealmakers" (rather than
advisors) who would be experienced and skilled in "packaging" and "marketing" enterprises to
potential investors and in actively searching and identifying the latter both in BiH and abroad. In
- 34 -



selecting and recruiting the "dealmakers", highest priority would be accorded to specialists who
promise to be successful in finding new owners for enterprises tendered; and (b) of taking
measures aimed at softening the social impact of privatization as much as feasible (see 6. Social).
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex l):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Reduced governments' commitment to          M         Project objectives must be clearly
tender privatization                                  communicated; encouragement by international
community; public relations campaign
supported under the project
Insufficient interest on the part of        H         Prepare informative and realistic documentation
strategic investors to buy companies                  on the enterprises; organize "batch" sales and
offered for sale                                     follow up persistently with potential investors;
reasonable pricing of assets offered
Worsening of overall business               M         Additional financial support from the
environment and weakening of                         international community; support to fast
macroeconomic balances                               improvement in removing obstacles to business
environment, specifically under the proposed
Business Environment Adjustment Credit (BAC)
Insufficient funds and measures for         S         Make available additional funds from sale of
alleviating social hardships caused by the            enterprises, donor funds and focus on making
inability to privatize non-viable                     more effective use of existing social safety net
enterprises, and for funding the
unemployment benefits of potential
significant incremental rise in
unemployment due to an acceleration in
privatization
Weak commitment to implement                H         Apply practical and informal methods aimed at
insolvency legislation                                an accelerated solution of insolvency problems,
as supported under the proposed BAC
Environmental concerns, and insufficient    M         Agreement on obligatory environmental audits
capacity for conducting and monitoring                and action program as an integral part of the
professional environmental audits                    tender process; training of local environmental
specialist by international experts
From Components to Outputs
Delay in selling enterprises with the help  M         Apply tight deadlines during the decision making
of domestic and intemational"                         process; monitor deadlines with the help of the
dealmakers"                                           two Senior Privatization Program Advisors; take
remedial measures in consultation with DfP,
FPA and the two PlUs
- 35 -



Non - transparent decision making and           S         Ensure openness of decision making process by
use of privatization proceeds                             open meetings whenever it will enhance
transparency; establish specific accounts for
collection of enterprise sales proceeds
Failure to complete strategic studies on        S         Monitor deadlines with the help of the two
time for preparation of privatization of                  Senior Privatization Program Advisors in the
utility companies                                         DfP and FPA; provide, if needed, additional
support from other than project sources
Delayed decisions for unbundling assets         H         Provide additional support under the project;
of diversified holding companies                          monitor deadlines with the help of Senior
Privatization Program Advisors
Resistance by current enterprise               M          Strengthen the role of the FPA, CPAs, DfP and
management                                                inform the public about importance of speedy
enterprise privatization
Financial management capacity and               H         Apply transparent procedures and effective
procurement capacity of PIUs                              controls, close monitoring of contracts and
service providers
Overall Risk Rating                             H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Controversies could arise from three different aspects of the Privatization T.A. Credit:
*  every mass privatization program tends to encounter resistance from enterprise managers, politicians
and the population at large because the sales proceeds obtained are considered to be too low.
Proposed remedy: explain, in a public information campaign, the financial status of state-owned
enterprises in question and emphasize the future survival potential of privatized companies.
*  tender privatization relies, by definition, heavily on the expertise of foreign specialists  and
dealmakers". This often causes frictions with the national political and privatization community.
Proposed remedy: conduct intensive dialogue about the merits of using intemational experts, in tandem
with domestic specialists, in identifying potential investors and in closing tender deals.
*  different weights given to the various tender criteria by privatization advisors employed by other
donors supporting BiH's privatization programs. This in itself does not necessarily result in conflicts
but unsuccessful bidders might question the outcome and validity of the tender process.
Proposed remedy: explain differences in approaches and demonstrate that differences are not leading to
substantially different privatization outcomes.
- 36 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
(i)    The auditors for the Federation and Republika Srpska, satisfactory to the Bank, have been
appointed.
(ii)    Operational Manuals, satisfactory to the Bank, have been adopted by the Federation and
Republika Srpska.
(iii)   A Project Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Association and an Entity on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(iv)   A Subsidiary Credit Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and an
Entity on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
O 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 37 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
E 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval.   e ect complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
(4&l"t/k  I-AGk~j~             Pa
Ulrich Albert Hewer               Patl Siegelbaum                    Christiaan J. Poortman
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director            Country Manager/Director
- 38 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Privatization Technical Assistance Project
HIrft  Of ot lbewtlas            Lwl  c          _    l Monirky &  vhw1tlon    Critical   n      os
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector) country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
*  Private sector-led growth  *  Increased share of private  *  Country statistics  *  Continued political
& employment              sector in GDP           * Assessment of progress      commitrnent and
*  Strengthened corporate    *  Increase private sector  during supervision        accountability
governance                investment and exports     missions                *  Interest of strategic
*  Increased employment    * Assessment of progress     investors to buy tendered
opportunity in the medium  during supervision        enterprises
and long term             missions                *  Transparency
*  Increased enterprise                              *  Significantly improved
productivity and efficiency                          business environment
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
* Accelerated tender-based  *  Some 45 large enterprises  *  Court registration of sold  *  Depolitization of
large enterprise          sold to strategic investors  companies                privatization
privatization in a        through tender process    *  Statistical recording of    *  Application of insolvency
transparent and efficient  *  Increased Foreign Direct  tender results by the FPA  legislation
way                       Investment                 and DfP                 *  Maintaining overall
*  Budgetary revenues from   *  Deposits of enterprise  macroeconomic stability
the sale of enterprises    sales revenue in
*  Reduced fiscal burden      earmarked accounts
through eliminating direct *  Monitoring of investment
and indirect subsidies    and other business plan
commitment with M&E
units in the FPA and DfP
- 39 -



Output from each             Output Indicators:            Project reports:              (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Component (1): Sale of large  *  Some 45 large enterprises    *  Recording of relevant data    *  Interested buyers of large
enterprises                      sold to strategic investors  about the tender process and  enterprises
sale of enterprises in the
Tender Bureaus and PIU and
PCU
* Monitoring of project
implementation progress
with the help of such data
during supervision missions
Component (2): Divestiture of   *  Appropriate legislation,  *  Enactment of legislation and  *  Limiting issuance of equity
utility companies and other      regulatory framework, and     frameworks in relevant       to minority shareholders to
monopolies requiring intensive  implementation procedure in    documents                    amounts that will not
preparatory steps, regulatory    place                     *  Monitoring of sales of utility  constrain new investors from
frameworks, and sales         *  Investment bank/company      companies with the help of    strategic company decision
arrangements                     recruited and sale of        M&E units in the DfP and      making
respective utility company   FPA and PIU and PCU, to be *  Attracting intemational
completed or near            assessed by Bank supervision    investors interested and
completion                   missions                      experienced in the respective
utility business
Component (3): Unbundling of   *  Four "unbundling' and    *  Progress reports on        *  Interest of strategic investors
large enterprises or holding     "spinning off'of holding      "unbundling" and             to buy bundled units
companies comprising many        companies and large          preparation for sale of
business activities              enterprises into privatizable  privatizable units in the FPA
units completed and their    and DfP as well as in the PIU
sale through tender or direct  and PCU
sale completed or near    *  Recording of sold enterprises
completion                   to strategic investors in the
official registrars
Component (4): Capital market   *  Completion of voucher    *  Transparent trading       *  Completion of privatization
development                      privatization              *  Trading volume of stock    *  Sound information
*  Set up a stock market                                      disclosure system
*  Build up supervision                                    *  Improvement of Security
capability on the stock                                    Commissions
market
*  Set up minimum capital
market regulations
- 40 -



Kai Prfonnance
Hierarchyof O#104*IVg                IndIk   pm            Monitorin       _ Vkaatlon      Ciia   supln
Project Components I         Inputs: (budget for each       Project reports:             (from Components to
Sub-components:              component)                                                   Outputs)
(In US $ million)
Component (1) :Technical                $ 10.56            *  Careful monitoring of      *  Recruitment of experienced"
assistance to help accelerate                                 recruitment of domestic and   dealmakers" and flexible
sale of companies with the help                               international "dealmakers"    approach to carrying out the
of domestic and international                                 in accordance with the        task of preparing company
"dealmakers"                                                  Bank's procurement            sales documentation and to
guidelines and financial     implementing the sale
management regulations, as  *  Refraining from interfering
well as the privatization    into the tender process by
experts in the PIU.           Governments and political
parties
*  Continued grant funding of
tender privatization from
other donors
Component (2): Technical                 S 0.60              *  Progress evaluation       *  Same as above
assistance in preparing the                                     measured against TORs to
required legislation and                                        be developed jointly by the
regulatory framework for the                                    DfP and FPA and the Bank,
divestiture of utility companies                                as well as the procurement
and privatization experts in
the PlUs
Component (3): Technical ]                 1.88               *   same procedure as         *  same as above
assistance in carrying out                                       mentioned above
"unbundling" and "spinning off'
of companies from holding
companies and conglomerates
Component (4): Technical                 S 2.05              *  Same procedure as          *  Recruitment of
assistance in setting up an                                     mentioned above               experienced capital market
organized and regulated market                                                                development experts
for shares.                                                                                *  Sound information
disclosure system
InstitutionalSupport                     $ 7.00              *  Same as above
- 41 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Privatization Technical Assistance Project
The Privatization T.A. Credit would include the following components:
Indicative                   Bank-          % of
Component               Sect      Costs        % of         financing       Bank-
or   (US dollars)    Total       (US dollars)   financing
1. Sale of enterprises ("dealmakers")      10,560,000      45.34       9,766,327        49.33
2. Utility privatization (advisors)          600,000         2.58        550,000         2.78
3. Technical assistance on unbundling,
concessions, and insolvency, procedures
and studies                                 1,880,000        8.07  _     80,000          9.24
4. Capital Market Development               2,050,000        8.80      1,750,000         8.83
* Support for regulatory frameworks         1,760,000        7.56      1,610,000         8.13
* Institutional support for PlUs            1,407,150        6.04        957,150         4.84
* Institutional support for Tender Bureaus   900,000        3.86         300,000         1.52
* Institutional support for FPA and DfP     2,934,000       12.60      2,134,000        10.78
Unallocated -contingency-           _       1,200,000        5.15        900,000         4.55
Physical Contingencies                        900,000        3.86        700,000         3.54
Price Contingencies
300,000        1.29        200,000         1.01
Total Project Costs                        23,291,150     100.00      19,797,478       100.00
Total Financing Required                   23,291,150                 19,797,478
By Component:
Project Component I - US$9.77 million
Tender sale of enterprises
Under this project component, "dealmakers" specialized and experienced in tender privatization,
will assist the governments in selling state-owned enterprises, not undergoing special privatization
programs, to strategic local and foreign investors. Emphasis will be given to transferring majority
ownership of public enterprise assets into private ownership.
In Republika Srpska, some 18 industrial enterprises (out of the 52 companies to be privatized
with the help of IAGP) have been earmarked for receiving privatization support under the
Privatization T.A. Credit. They include companies in the field of electronics, machine tools,
construction material, equipment and services, mining, the largest agribusiness conglomerate, and
a large holding company with some 23 subsidiary enterprises engaged in diversified production
- 42 -



ranging from televisions and other electronic appliances to medical equipment.
In the Federation, the Credit will support the tender sale of some 27 industrial enterprises (out of
the 86 companies to be privatized with the help of the international community) in the following
sectors: metal processing, machine building, electro-mechanical devices, furniture and wood
processing, leather, construction materials and services, and engineering, as well as the country's
main steel production complex.
In addition, some Cantonal Privatization Agencies (CPA) have indicated that a number of
enterprises under their jurisdiction may be interested in obtaining privatization assistance under
the Credit.
Both the FPA, and the DfP have requested that funds also be made available to cover contingency
needs to accelerate privatization of enterprises which are deemed to require more substantial
and/or specialized technical assistance than they are currently receiving (or have been promised to
receive) from other donor institutions.
Project Component 2 - US$0.55 million
Enterprises undergoing special privatization programs
The two Entity Governments have decided to privatize utility companies and other monopolies
under special programs. The T.A. Credit would assist in financing both (a) further preparatory
work, such as appropriate legislation and sound regulatory frameworks, towards the preparation
of the divestiture of these companies, and (b) the actual sale of the companies to strategic
investors.
Telecommunications. During the second half of the 1990s, the restoration and modernization of
the public telephone network has received financial support from bilateral donors, the European
Union and other international organizations, coordinated by EBRD. Both Republika Srpska and
the Federation intend to accelerate the modernization of the telecom sector with the help of
strategic investors who would make the necessary investments and assume management control
over the company. In Republika Srpska, postal and telecom services have been separated, and
such a step is expected to be taken shortly also in the Federation.
A tender process would be launched to appoint qualified privatization advisors using a portion of
the funds provided under the T. A. Credit. The task of the advisors would be to: (i) help prepare
the next steps in creating the appropriate regulatory framework required for a successful
privatization; (ii) identify through an open and transparent process the most suitable way for
attracting strategic investors for each of the BiH telecom operators; and (iii) negotiate with them
on behalf of the authorities the sale of a controlling interest in the relevant operators.
Postal services. Funds provided under the Credit could also be allocated towards improving the
quality of postal services and finding ways for raising their profitability. All three state-owned
postal services are candidates for private sector participation. Terms of reference for preparing a
- 43 -



feasibility study for a postal master plan are being drafted. The study aims at developing an
appropriate reform model for postal services in BiH and will discuss ways of combining
successfully the traditional function of mail delivery with new functions such as e-mails,
certification of documents, etc. A merger of the three postal services would greatly enhance the
chance of implementing such reforms.
Coverage of the telecom and postal services under the Credit has been discussed with the Minister
of Transport and Communications in the Federation of BiH and with the Minister of Transport
and Telecommunications in Republika Srpska.
Gas sector.  The gas sector restructuring study, prepared by consultants in line with EU
requirements and funded by the World Bank, was presented to the two Entity Governments at the
end of 1999. Its conclusions and recommendations concerning the restructuring and regulation of
the gas industry have been discussed in the framework of the inter-Entity Ministerial Steering
Committee and the inter-Entity Working Group. A Gas Sector Policy statement has been
prepared but not yet adopted by the Entity governments. In order to develop a comprehensive
strategy for the development of the gas industry in BiH, a Gas Sector Development Study was
launched in late 1999. It is overseen by the Ministerial Steering Committee and the Working
Group, and its conclusions are to be presented to the two Entity governments shortly.
In preparation of the privatization of the gas sector, the following tasks will need to be carried
out: (i) review the existing laws, regulations and concession arrangements at the State, Entity,
Cantonal and Municipal levels, which may be bearing on the new gas sector legal framework to be
developed; (ii) provide guidance for the working groups concerning the Gas Sector Policy
statement and the gas sector legal framework; (iii) provide expert guidance to the working
groups on all aspects of preparing the gas sector for privatization (alignment with EU gas sector
policy; industry restructuring and regulation; gas pricing policy; and privatization strategy); and
(iv) prepare offering documents, launch the tender process with investment banks, and negotiate
and conclude the sale.
While separate funds are being sought to assist in preparing the required legal and regulatory
framework, the T.A. Credit would provide funds for carrying out the actual divestiture of the gas
company.
Communal water and district heating companies. The performance of the water and district
heating companies in both Entities is characterized by large losses of water due to an outdated
physical infrastructure, poor collection rates, as well as unclear and conflicting management
responsibilities. Discussions were held with officials in charge of the water and district heating
companies at the Ministry of Town Planning and Housing-Communal Services in Republika
Srpska and at the Federation Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry and
representatives of the water and district heating companies in the Federation. In both Entities,
the cantonal and municipal authorities in charge of district heating and the water companies have
benefited from bilateral support, but comprehensive strategies on how to best modernize the
sector, improve its performrance and prepare for the various steps towards its eventual
privatization have yet to be developed.
- 44 -



Waste disposal and recycling. In the Federation, discussions are underway on how to best
organize the collection and disposal/recycling of waste in the municipalities. The FPA has
requested that funds be made available under the Credit to study the feasibility of various options,
including privatization of the companies or appropriate concession arrangements.
Air Bosna. The Government of the Federation of BiH intends to privatize the state-owned
airline. In a first step, international experts would evaluate the assets of the company, including
the value of its licenses and routes to a potential buyer, and outline alternative privatization
scenarios. The second step would consist of the preparation of the sale of Air Bosna to a
strategic investor. A merchant bank would be recruited which would, as an agent for and on
behalf of the Government, undertake all the necessary preparations for completing the sale of the
company. The Dutch Government and the World Bank are prepared to assist in carrying out
these tasks.
Railways and airport administration. In Republika Srpska, the Minister of Transport and
Communications requested that funds be made available under the Credit for: (a) feasibility
studies in preparation of the restructuring and eventual privatization of the railways; (b) assistance
to improve the administration of the airport in Banja Luka, and (c) support to the airport's
privatization or putting in place suitable options for private sector participation.
Electricity sector. Preparatory work towards the unbundling of BiH power generation and
distribution companies and their sale to strategic investors would be carried out under the
proposed Power III Credit. This work will, therefore, not be covered under the T.A. Credit.
However, the Credit may include some funding for eventual steps/measure towards the
privatization.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.83 million
Technical assistance with unbundling, concessions, and insolvency procedures
While sale of enterprises to strategic investors would be the main activity under the proposed
T.A. Credit, measures and steps to render enterprises privatizable would also be supported.
Specifically, such efforts could aim at (a) unbundling of assets of diversified holding companies,
including extinguishing the legal entity of the holding company; (b) ensuring private sector
participation through concession agreements; and (c) applying insolvency legislation and
accelerated procedures.
Unbundling of enterprises. A small number of the large state-owned enterprises may find it
difficult to attract buyers due to the complex organizational structures that contain numerous
business units of heterogeneous character operating in unrelated markets with unrelated
technologies and with diversified cash flow and risk profiles.
Recognizing that strategic investors tend to be interested in specific lines of business with niche
technologies and markets, streamlined cost structures, flexible supply chains, independent
-45 -



financing potential, it will be necessary to perform selective unbundling of conglomerates and
holding companies and then sell the separated entities as independent enterprises.
Some of this work can be carried out by local experts, particularly the financial/accounting and
legal aspects of unbundling.   Guidance from  intemational experts would focus on the
identification of strategic business units, delineation of core versus non-core assets, securing
approval from stakeholders (e.g. creditors, shareholders, labor unions), and presenting the
economic justification for the reorganization from the perspective of a potential or identified
investor.
The international donor community has been discussing the provision of technical assistance to
the reorganization and unbundling of enterprises, and at least one donor institution (DFID) is in
the process of preparing a program aimed at supporting post-privatization enterprise
restructuring.
Private sector participation through concession agreements. The Credit may also assist in the
transformation of public non-profit, regulated enterprises in water management (including flood
basin control) enterprises.  These public service companies, some of which manage natural
resources, require organizational and technological modernization to achieve greater efficiency
and improved performance in customer service and environmental responsibility. Assistance may
be needed to develop regulatory and organizational environments conducive to private sector
participation through concessions or other forms of private sector participation (e.g. management
contracts, leases, etc.).
Application of insolvency legislation in privatization of enterprises. A number of enterprises to
be tendered to strategic investors, including spin-off units from holding companies, may not be
tenderable unless some financial restructuring is perforned to improve creditworthiness and/or
resolve creditor claims complicating changes in ownership. The following steps may, therefore,
be undertaken in order to facilitate privatization: (i) assess the suitability of existing insolvency
legislation for resolving problem enterprises by analyzing current enforcement practices and
assessing the effectiveness of the institutional framework;  (ii)  develop the most suitable
approaches to taking advantage of the existing insolvency legislation for resolving insolvent,
illiquid state-owned enterprises in preparation for, or during the process of, privatization; (iii)
advise the respective privatization authorities, and the Tender Commissions on strategies for
resolving creditor issues and/or barriers to privatization caused by over-indebtedness of
enterprises, particularly where debt workouts involving equity swaps might result in increased
share blocks to be tendered to strategic investors.
Project Component 4 - US$1.75 million
Capital Market Development
Both RS and FBiH have privatized a substantial portion of the state owned assets through
vouchers. Without a share exit mechanism, investors, worried that their capital might become
stuck if they buy enterprises in BiH, will be overly cautious and refrain from investing in BiH. The
- 46 -



concern about risks may lead to low demand and consequently to lower proceeds from
privatization.
In order to help establish an organized and centralized price competing mechanism, the Credit will
help (i) facilitate the completion of voucher privatization (ii) enhance supervision and enforcement
capacity and a sound regulatory framework for capital market development.
Institutional Support and Contingencies (US$5.9 million): The Credit will provide, in addition
to the four distinct project components, support aimed at strengthening the various institutions
and administrative capacity associated with tender privatization. Specifically, (a) the privatization
agencies will be reinforced by two Senior Privatization Program Advisors; (b) the Tender Bureaus
will be strengthened by two local specialist in each Entity who would help enforce compliance
with environmental audits, supported by one international environmental expert; and (c) the
design of the regulatory frameworks would benefit from advice and guidance from international
and local experts.
- 47 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Privatization Technical Assistance Project
LOCAL             FOREIGN               TOTAL
Project Cost By Component                                US dollars
I. Sale of enterprises ("dealmakers")         793,673               9,766,327        10,560,000
2. Utility privatization (advisors)            50,000                 550,000           600,000
3. Technical assistance on unbundling,
concessions, insolvency, studies
(consultants)                                50,000               1,830,000         1,880,000
4. Capital Market Development
300,000               1,750,000         2,050,000
* Support for regulatory frameworks
150,000              1,610,000         1,760,000
• Institutional support for PlUs
450,000                957,150          1,407 ,150
* Institutional support for Tender Bureaus    600,000                 300,000           900 000
* Institutional support for FPA and DfP
800,000              2,134,000         2,934,000
Total Baseline Cost                          3,193,673              18,897,478        22,091,150
Physical Contingencies
Physical Contingencies  200,000              700,000           900,000
Price Contingencies
100,000                200,000           300,000
Total Baseline Cost                          3,493,673              19,797,478        23,291,150
Interest during construction
Front-end fee
Total Financing Required                     3,493,673              19,797,478        23,291,150
Goods                                            100,000             674,000            774,000
Works                  _
Services                                       2,293,673          16,790,328         19,084,000
Incremental Operating Cost                       800,000            1,433,150         2,233,150
Unallocated                                      300,000             900,000          1,200,000
Total Project Costs                            3,493,673          19,797,478         23,291,150
Interest during construction                             __
Front-end fee
Total Financing                                3,493,673          19,797,478         23,291,150
- 48 -



Estimated Project Costs for Federation of BiH
LOCAL   I  FOREIGN   |-TOTAL
Project Cost By Component                          US dollars -       _
1. Sale of enterprises ("dealmakers")           550,745      6,117,255      6,668,000
2. Utility privatization (advisors)              33,333        366,667        400,000
3. Technical assistance on unbundling,
concessions, insolvency, studies (consultants)  19,574        716,426       736,000
4. Capital Market Development                   150,000        875,000      1,025,000
* Support for regulatory frameworks              81,392        873,608        955,000
* Institutional support for PIUs                235,625        501,175        736,800
* Institutional support for Tender Bureaus      300,000        150,000        450,000
* Institutional support for FPA                 400,000       1,067,000     1,467,000
Total Baseline Cost                            1,770,670      10,667,130    12,437,800
Physical Contingencies                      100 000         400,000       500,000
Price Contingencies
100 000        100,000       200,000
Total Baseline Cost
1,970,670     11,167,130    13,137,800
Interest during construction
Front-end fee
Total Financing Required                       1,970,670      11,167,130    13,137,800
Pi'OIfAct Cost GyCtmy                                S*       a~
Goods                                          50,000          337,000          387,000
Works 
Services                                    1,320,670         9,615,555      10,936,225
Incremental Operating Cost                    400,000          716,575        1,116,575
Unallocated                                   200,000          500,000          700,000
Total Pro ject Costs                        1,970,670        11,167,130      13,137,800
Interest durnn construction__________
Front-end fee                                                        ________
Total Financing                             1,970,670        11,167,130      13,137,800
- 49 -



Estimated Project Costs for Republika Srpska
LOCAL       FOREIGN        TOTAL
Project Cost By Component                            US dollars
1. Sale of enterprises ("dealmakers")                 242 928    3,649,072      3,892,000
2. Utility privatization (advisors)                     16,667      183,333       200,000
3. Technical assistance on unbundling, concessions,
insolvency, studies (consultants)                     30,426    1,113,574      1,144,000
4. Capital Market Development
150,000      875,000     1,025,000
* Support for regulatory frameworks                     68,608      736,392       805,000
* Institutional support for PIUs                      214,375       455,975       670,350
* Institutional support for Tender Bureaus            300 ,000      150,000       450000
* Institutional support for DfP
400,000    1,067,000      1,467,000
Total Baseline Cost                                   1,423,003    8,230,348     9,653,350
Physical Contingencies                             100,000      300,000       400,000
Price Contingencies
I100,000      100,000
Total Baseline Cost
1,523,003    8,630,348    10,153,350
Interest during construction
Front-end fee
Total Financing Required
1,523,003    8,630,348    10,153,350
Goods                                        50,000           337,000           387,000
Works                              _
Services                                    973,003         7,176,773          8,149,775
Incremental Operating Cost                  400,000           716,575          1,116,575
Unallocated                                 100,000           400,000            500,000
Total Project Costs                       1,523,003         8,630,348         10,153,350
Interest during construction
Front-end fee
Total Financing                           1,523,003         8,630,348         10,153,350
- 50 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Privatization Technical Assistance Project
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
1.    The Principles of Economic Evaluation
The economic cost - benefit analysis compares the economic costs and benefits of the project
over the implementation period and over its assumed 15-year period of expected life. The latter
period corresponds to the time that it might take to complete the process of physical and financial
restructuring of successfully privatized enterprises. In order to arrive at a realistic assessment of
the benefits, both the direct and short - term and the indirect and medium and long - term benefits
will need to be taken into account.
2.    Cost and benefits of the transactions supported by the T.A. Credit
The costs associated with the tendering of 45 enterprises ( 27 in the Federation and 18 in RS) has
been estimated at roughly US$ 20 million to be spent over a period of three years (2001 through
2004). The estimated total book value of the 45 enterprises to be sold amounts to KM 11.2 billion
( or US$ 5.6 billion); assuming that the total sales revenue obtained in the tender process may on
average amount to approximately 50 percent of the book value, the privatization revenues from
enterprises to be sold with the help of the PTAC may reach KM 5.6 billion, or US$ 2.8 billion.
The latter amount has been adjusted for the success fee to be paid to the investment companies
out of the sales receipts.
3.    Indirect benefits of tender sales
While The Tender sale of enterprises is likely to generate significant one off revenues for the RS,
Federation and Cantonal budgets, other benefits arising from privatizing the enterprises in
question will turn out to be much more important and lasting. While it may not always be feasible
to quantify them, the indirect benefits are likely to far outweigh the costs and the direct benefits
associated with selling the enterprises. These benefits are as follows:
(i)  Phasing out of budgetary enterprise subsidies and guarantees for bank credits- to
enterprises. Enterprise subsidies, accumulated over many years, represent an enormous
burden to the economy and prevent budgetary funds from being allocated to more
productive purposes. Moreover, such subsidies tend to keep inefficient enterprises in
business which would otherwise have to exit the market. Although the total amount of
subsidies granted to enterprises in BiH is not known, they are likely to be quite high. The
enterprises privatized with the help of the Credit would no longer receive such subsidies; the
funds set free could be used for more productive purposes.
- 51 -



(ii)  Profit taxes from  privatized enterprises. Restructured and economically successful
enterprises will pay profit taxes.
(iii) Lower unemployment compensation. Privatized and restructured enterprises are likely to
operate, generally, at higher production, export and productivity levels compared to when
they were state-owned enterprises. This may lead, after the completion of an adjustment
period, to overall higher employment and, consequently, lower unemployment compensation
payments.
(iv) Improved management skills. Privatized enterprises will benefit from the transfer of
management skills from abroad as well as from the opportunity to learn sound management
techniques on the job. While such benefits are particularly difficult to quantify, they have
undoubtedly a large positive impact on the performance of privatized enterprises and the
economy as a whole.
(v)  Better enterprise governance. State-owned enterprises suffer from poor governance. Private
owners will want to receive high returns on their capital; they will insist on transparent,
accountable and efficient corporate enterprise governance.
(vi) Environmental compliance. State-owned enterprises typically have not been concemed
enough about environmental matters. By making environmental audits and action programs
for remediation of past damage and future compliance with environmental standards and
regulations an integral part of the tender process, environmental concems will be addressed
in a systematic manner. The resulting impact on the environment and the training of
environmental specialist in BiH can not be overestimated.
(vii) Civil society. Private ownership in private enterprises will help promote accountability,
improved governance and values conducive to democratic attitudes and behavior. The
creation of an entrepreneurial class seems to be particularly important in BiH where socialist
production modes and values discouraged accountability associated with risk taking
initiatives.
4.    Benefits - Without Project Scenario
If the Privatization T.A. project were not taking place, BiH's reform efforts would continue and
large enterprises would be privatized, albeit at a slower pace, partly because grant funds would
probably not be made available in sufficient amounts, and partly because best practices may not be
applied, or only to a lesser degree than will be the case with the project. While component (f)
may proceed successfully, though with delays, it is highly unlikely that the components requiring
substantial technical assistance and guidance from the Bank could be implemented with the same
degree of commitment without the project. Over the past decade, the Bank has gained
considerable expertise and experience in the components (2), (3) and (4) of the project. Because
of the importance of the latter components, it is estimated that the benefits of BiH's privatization
programs would amount to only one third at best when compared with the "with project
scenario."
- 52 -



Main Assumptions:
The economic cost - benefit analysis compares the economic costs and benefits of the project
over the implementation period and over its assumed 15-year period of expected life. The latter
period corresponds to the time that it might take to complete the process of physical and financial
restructuring of successfully privatized enterprises. In order to arrive at a realistic assessment of
the benefits, both the direct and short - term and the indirect and medium and long - term benefits
will need to be taken into account.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Not applicable
- 53 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Privatization Technical Assistance Project
(in US dollars)
FY02        FY03        FY04        Total
1. Tender sale of enterprises
("dealmakers")          2,112,000    3,168,000   5,280,000   10,560,000
2. Utility privatization
(advisors)                            300,000     300,000     600,000
3. Technical assistance on
unbundling, concessions,
insolvency, studies
(consultants)            940,000      940,000                1,880,000
4. Capital Market
Development              950,000      650,000     450,000    2,050,000
* Support for regulatory
frameworks               980,000      780,000                1,760,000
* Institutional support for
PIUsa/                   749,050      429,050     229,050    1,407,150
* Institutional support for
Tender Bureausw          400,000      300,000     200,000     900,000
* Institutional support for
FPA and DfPa/            978,000      978,000     978,000    2,934,000
Total Baseline Cost       6,949,050    7,505,050   7,737,050   22,091,150
Physical Contingencies  300,000       300,000    300,000     900,000
Price Contingencies      100,000      100,000    100,000     300,000
Total Financing           7,349,050    7,905,050   8,037,050   23,291,150
Financing:
IBRD/IDA                  6,246,693    6,719,293   6,816,493   19,797,478
Government                1,102,358    1,185,758   1,205,558    3,493,673
Other Donors
Total project Financing   7,349,050    7,905,050   8,037,050   23,291,150
a/ Includes incremental operating costs.
- 54 -



Financial Summary of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
(in US dollars)
FY02        FY03       FY04        Total
1. Estimated Dealmaker Costs   1,333,600    2,000,400  3,334,000   6,668,000
2. Utility privatization
(advisors)                             200,000    200,000    400,000
3. Unbundling, insolvency,
studies (consultants)     368,000      368,000               736,000
4. Capital Market
Development                 475,000      325,000    225,000   1,025,000
Support for regulatory
frameworks                540,000      415,000               955,000
Institutional Support for
Plus                      385,600      225,600    125,600    736,800
Institutional support for
Tender Bureaus            200,000      150,000    100,000    450,000
Institutional support for
FPA                       489,000      489,000    489,000   1,467,000
Unallocated- contingency  140,000      210,000    350,000    700,000
Total Costs for Federation of
BiH                        3,931,200    4,383,000  4,823,600  13,137,800
Less government
contributions                589,680      657,450    723,540   1,970,670
Total PTAC for Federation
Total_PTAC_for_Federation  3,341,520    3,725,550  4,100,060  11,167,130
- 55 -



Financial Summary of Republika Srpska
(in US dollars)
FY02        FY03        FY04         Total
1. Estimated Dealmaker Costs       778,400  1,167,600    1,946,000     3,892,000
2. Utility privatization (advisors)           100,000      100,000       200,000
3. Unbundling, insolvency, studies
(consultants)                    572,000    572,000                  1,144,000
4. Capital Market Development       475,000    325,000     225,000     1,025,000
Support for regulatory frameworks  440,000    365,000                 805,000
Institutional Support for PIUs   363,450    203,450      103,450      670,350
Institutional support for Tender
Bureaus                          200,000    150,000      100,000      450,000
Institutional support for DfP    489.000    489,000      489,000     1,467,000
Unallocated - contingency        100,000    150,000      250,000      500,000
Total Costs for Republika Srpska  3,417,850   3,522,050    3,213,450    10,153,350
Less government contributions      512,678    528,308      482,018     1,523,003
Total PTAC for Republika Srpska   2,905,173   2,993,743    2,731,433   8,630,348
- 56 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Privatization Technical Assistance Project
Procurement
The total value of the Credit is US$23.29 million, of which the IDA Credit will finance US$19.80
million; the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina will finance the balance of US$3.49 million
The IDA Credit will be lent to the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will on-lend
the proceeds of the Credit to the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (FBiH) and Republika
Srpska (RS). The incremental operating costs associated with the implementation of the PTAC
would be covered by IDA Credit and the governments' contributions.
All IDA financed procurement of goods will be carried out in accordance with the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995, and
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999.
Consulting services and training shall be procured in accordance with the "Guidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January
1997, and revised in September 1997 and January 1999. For complex, time-based assignments,
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultant services issued by the
Association.
1.  Goods (US$ 0.77 million)
Goods to be financed under the Credit include: office equipment, computers, off-the-shelf
software, furniture, materials, fax machines, printers, copy machines, stock exchange trading
software, etc.
(i)  International Shopping (IS).   Goods and equipment contracts costing less than
US$100,000 per contract. International Shopping procedures will be based on comparing price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from two different countries in accordance with
Bank Guidelines, estimated aggregate amount US$390,000.
(ii) National Shopping (NS). Goods and equipment contracts estimated to cost US$50,000
equivalent or less per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national
shopping procedures in accordance with the Guidelines, estimated aggregate amount - of
US$380,000.
2.  Consulting Services and Training (US$ 19.08 million)
Consultant services will be procured for the following components: (a) sale of enterprises
("dealmakers"); (b) utility and other monopoly companies privatization advisors; (c) technical
assistance on unbundling, concessions, insolvency, studies (consultants); (d) environmental audit
specialist; (e) Senior Privatization Program Advisors; and, (f) capital market development
- 57 -



specialists. The aggregate value of consulting services to be procured is estimated at US$19.08
million.
Consultants services procured under these components will be selected in accordance with World
Bank Guidelines using methods appropriate to the value and scope of work of the services to be
provided.
All procurement of consultants' services will be subject to the non-objection by the World Bank.
(i)  Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) will be used for procurement of firms when the
estimated value of the contract exceeds US$100,000. Privatization contracts will be invited
based on retainer and success fees in accordance with para. 4.3 of the Guidelines.
(ii) Least Cost Selection (LCS) will be used only for procurement of firms to carry out financial
audits to be financed by the Foundation, aggregate amount US$56,000.
(iii) Consultants' Qualifications (CQ) would be used for contracting firms for which the value
of the assignment is estimated at less than US$100,000. Such contracts would be for
international consultants for small tasks for which the consultants' qualifications are of
paramount importance, aggregate amount cannot be estimated at this time as it is difficult to
indicate which contracts would go under CQ and which might go under IC (see next
paragraph). The total aggregate for CQ and IC would be US$372,000.
(iv) Individual Consultants (IC) would be hired in accordance with Section V of the Guidelines
for assignments for which teams of personnel are not required and the experience and
qualifications of the individual are the paramount requirement. Individuals will be selected
on the basis of their qualifications for the assignment. The value of these individual contracts
is expected to range from US$5,000-50,000 and the aggregate value for all contracts under
IC and CQ procedures is estimated at US$0.37 million.
2.1 Tender sale of enterprises ("Dealmakers") (US$ 10.56 million)
This section highlights details of the components.
In Republika Srpska, some 18 large enterprises have been selected for receiving privatization
support under the Credit, including companies engaged in the production of agricultural
products, machine tools, construction equipment, and etc.
In the Federation, the Credit will support the sale of 27 large enterprises in metal processing,
machine building, electro-mechanical devices, furniture and wood processing, leather,
construction materials and services, and engineering, as well as the country's main steel
production complex.
- 58 -



2.2   Utility company privatization (Advisors) (US$ 0.60 million)
Recognizing the characteristics of utility companies and certain other monopolies, the two Entity
governments have decided to privatize them under special programs. The Credit would assist in
financing both (a) further preparatory work, such as appropriate legislation and regulatory
frameworks, towards the preparation of the divestiture of these companies, and (b) the sale of the
companies to strategic investors.
2.3   Technical assistance on unbundling, concessions, insolvency, studies (Consultants)
(US$1.88 million)
While sale of enterprises to strategic investors would be the main emphasis under the Credit,
programs would also be developed to render enterprises privatizable through: (i) "unbundling"
large enterprises and holding companies and performing similar preparatory steps to attract
potential buyers for the separated entities; (ii) ensuring private sector participation through
concession agreements; and (iii) applying insolvency legislation to affected enterprises.
2.4   Capital Market Development (Consultants) (US$1.35 million)
The capital market component would assist the two Entity governments and the Securities
Commissions in: (i) facilitating the completion of voucher privatization in both Entities; (ii)
creating regulatory frameworks and standards required for an orderly and organized trading of
securities, including the creation or review of a wide range of legislation and degrees (such as the
securities law; stock exchange law; commercial code; accounting law; bankruptcy legislation;
investment fund law; etc.); (iii) building the supervisory capacity of the stock market in each
Entity.
Consultants services will be selected in accordance with World Bank Guidelines using methods
appropriate to the value and scope of work of the services to be provided.
Institutional Support. The remaining US$4.70 million have been earmarked for payment of the
services of (a) two Senior Program Privatization Advisors; (b) five environmental compliance
specialists (2 local specialists in each Tender Bureau and one intemational expert); and (c)
intemational and local experts supporting the regulatory and institutional frameworks for the
telecommunications and gas sectors.
All procurement of consultants' services will be subject to the non-objection by the World Bank.
3.  Incremental operating Costs (US$2.23 million)
The incremental operating costs of the implementing agencies, including staff salaries, rent,
utilities, and intemational procurement specialist salaries, will be fully covered by the IDA Credit
and the governments' contributions to the PTAC.
- 59 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US  million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category
ICB             NCB         Other 8        N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                               0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
12. Goods                              0.00            0.00           0.77          0.00           0.77
(___________________________   0.00)  (0.00)  (0.67)  (0.00)  (0.67)
3. Services                            0.00           0.00           19.08         0.00          19.08
(0.00)         (0.00)        (16.79)        (0.00)        (16.79)
4. Recurrent Costs                     0.00           0.00           2.23          0.00           2.23
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.43)        (0.00)         (1.43)
5. Unallocated                        0.00            0.00           1.20 9        0.00           1.20
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.90)        (0.00)         (0.90)
Total                               0.00            0.00          23.29         0.00          23.29
___       (0.00)          (0.00)        (1(0.00)       0.00)         (19.80)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related
to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Will be pro-rated to other categories.
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant
Services                                    Selection Method                                     Total Cost
Expenditure                                                                                         (including
Categorv                                             .                                          contingencies)
QCBS        QBS         SFB        LCS          CQ         Other    N.B.F.
A. Firms             18.66       0.00       0.00        0.06        0.00        0.00       0.00         18.72
(15.86)     (0.00)     (0.00)      (0.05)      (0.00)      (0.00)    (0.00)        (16.00)
B. Individuals       0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.37       0.00          0.37
1(0.00)    (0.00)    (0. 00)      (0.00)       (0.00)     (0.3 1)    (0.00)        (0.31
(0.0) 8    (60.00)    (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.31)(0.06  0000        19.11
Total               (15.86)     (0.00)      (0.00)     (0.05)       (0.00)     (0.31)    (00) )        (16.23)
Note:    QCBS          Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS          Quality-based Selection
SFB          Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS          Least-Cost Selection
CQ           Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other        Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines).
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F.       Not Bank-financed    **Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 60 -



Table A2: Procurement Plan
(Plan will be uPdated every six months)
Prequalificationt               Bid
Number  Estimat   Procure-           SL                         1. GPN
of     ed cost     ment       1. Invitation     BD/RFP       Announcement
Description        Type  slices/ite  (US$      Method     GPN/SPN/Loeal                   2. Invitation/    Contract    Contract
ms/    million)                2. Opening     1. Preparation   SPN/Loeal      Signing     Completion
sub-                          3. Evaluation &                 3. Opening
packageS                       Recommendation                  4. Evaluation
& Award
Tender sale of             CS       3       5.28       QCBS                       June 2001    1. June 2001    Dec. 2001      Feb. 2004
enterprises ("deal-                                                                             2. July 2001
makers")                                                                                        3. Aug. 2001
4. Sept. 2001
Tender sale of            CS        3        5.28      QCBS                       June 2002      1 July 2002    Oct. 2002     Feb. 2004
enterprises ("deal-                                                                             2. July 2002
makers")                                                                                        3. Aug. 2002
_______________________   ________  ____ _ _  _4.  Sept. 2002
Utility privatization     CS        6        0.60      QCBS                       June 2001        July 2001    Jan. 2002     Feb. 2004
(advisors)                                                                                                                              _|
TA on unbundling          CS        6        1.88      QCBS                       June 2001        July 2001    Jan. 2002     Feb. 2004
concessions, insolvency
(consultants)
Capital Market
Development                                 2-05
* Capital Market
Specialists             CS       2        1.20      QCBS                        June 2001       July 2001    Jan. 2002      Feb. 2004
* Local consultants       CS        4       0.15        IC                        June 2001        July 2001    Sept.2001      Feb. 2004
* Capital market I.T.      G        I       0.20         IS                       Dec. 2001        Mar. 2002    Apr. 2002      Feb. 2004
* Equipment                G        4       0.50       IS/NS                      Dec. 2001        Mar. 2002    Apr. 2002      Feb. 2004
Sub-total                                   15.09
Institutional support for
regulatory agencies                          1.76
* Telecommunications
regulatory agency       CS        1       0.46      QCBS
* Radio & TV broadcast
infrastructure          CS        1       0.25      QCBS
* Gas sector regulatory
agency                  CS        1       0.90      QCBS
* Postal service reforms
study                   CS        1       0.15      QCBS
Institutional support for    CS     2        1.41      QCBS                                                      Dec. 2001     Feb. 2004
PlUs                                                                                                                                      l
Institutional support for    CS     2        0.90      QCBS                                                      Dec. 2001     Feb. 2004
Tender Bureaus'
Institutional support for
FPA and DfP                                  2.93
* Public Awareness
Campaign                CS        I       0.90      QCBS
* Environmental
Compliance
Monitoring Specialists    CS      1       0.63      QCBS                         June 2001      June 2001      Jan. 2002     Feb. 2004
* Senior Privatization
Advisors (2)            CS        2       1.40      QCBS                         June 2001      June 2001     Dec. 2001      Feb. 2004
Contingency                                  1.20
Total                              23.29
It is planned to have 4 our of24 QCBS procedures as a first phase.
Rental of premises, IT/video equipment, translation services, transportation, telecom costs, roadshows. promotion literature, stationary, contingency, etc.
- 61 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Procurement of services will be carried out according to the agreed upon procurement plan
described in table A2 and will be subject to the reviews noted in table B. The Bank's prior review
will cover all procurement of services contract over US$25,000 equivalent, terms of reference for
all consulting assignments; and all consulting contracts with individual consultants. With respect
to prior review, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 of the Guidelines
shall apply.
Con tracts Subject to
Prior Review / E stim ated
Expenditure         Contract V alue          Procurem ent         Total Value Subject to
C ategory           (Threshold)               M ethod               Prior Review
I . W orks                                                                   N A
2. Goods                >  5 0,000                   IS                       A 11
< 100,000                                             A 11
<  50,000                   N S                       All
> I 00,000                 Q C B S                    A 11
3. Services             < 1 00,000                 LC S '                     A 11
< I 00,000                 CQ '                       A 11
<  50,000                    IC                      T O R
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
a/
There are no Works to be procured under the Credit.
LCS method will be used only for procurement of firms to carry out financial audits.
The threshold would be applied only to international consultants.
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High         X
Average
Low
The procurement staff based in the Bank's RM in BiH will provide support to the local
procurement staff in the two PIUs on a regular basis. Additional support to procurement
matters will be provided during project supervision missions every 6 months. During the
first year of project implementation, supervision will take place every 3 months.
- 62 -



Table Bl: Capacity of the Implementing Agencies in Procurement and
Technical Assistance Requirements
Responsibility for project management, including procurement, will initially rest with the Foundation for Sustainable Development
(FSD) in the Federation and the Development and Employment Foundation (DEF) in Republika Srpska. Over time and after
appropriate training, FPA and DfP will assume this function.
The FSD is a new Foundation created through the merger of the existing Employment and Training Foundation, responsible for LIP 1,
and the Foundation for Sustainable Development, responsible for another WB-financed project. FSD's Finance and Administration
unit will have at least one local Procurement Officer; a candidate has already been identified and his capacity will be assessed as part
of the upcoming Procurement Capacity Assessment. The Foundation will also benefit from the experience gained by the LIP staff of
procurement of consulting services under LIP 1, including QCBS contracts jointly tendered with the DEF.
DEF is already well-established, having been in existence since 1997. DEF currently has responsibility for four World Bank-
financed projects, including LIP 1/11. The existing Foundation staff have experience of procurement under LIP I and have been
subject to regular procurement monitoring and audit reviews by the Procurement Monitoring and Audit Unit of RS with no problem
issues identified. DEF has recently hired a local Procurement Officer who has one year's procurement experience from another World
Bank project that has now closed and whose performance and capacity was good.
Strengths and weaknesses of the proposed consolidated PIU structures are commented upon in the Procurement Capacity Assessment
Report, (PCA) which presently is only available in a first draft. A detailed action plan is proposed in the draft PCA and after
clearance by the RPA office of the PCA, its findings need to be discussed during negotiations for all projects handled by the
consolidated PlUs/Foundations.
In addition, the two Entity governments will consider recruiting internationally experienced and reputable procurement advisors,
preferably a firm, which would assist the PlUs in RS and the FBiH in preparing the required documentation and help carry out the
actual procurement under the Credit. In order to economize costs and take advantage of synergies, the two Entity governments would
jointly hire the firm, and either the same expert or two different experts would provide the needed services in RS and the FBiHl.
The procurement staff of both Foundations will benefit from training and oversight to be provided by the international firm hired to
provide procurement support for the Privatization Technical Assistance Credit, also implemented by these Foundations. The Project
will also finance further procurement training to ensure that procurement is carried out in a satisfactory manner.
No approved CPAR exists for BIH, but a draft is under preparation            Are the bidding documentsfor the procurement
actionsfor thefirst year ready by negotiations:
No
Training Informatio  and Development on Procurement
Estimated Date of    Date of publication of      Indicate if there is procurement  Domestic         Domestic Preference
Project Launch        General Procurement        subject to mandatory SPN in      Preference  for  for Works, if
Workshop:            Notice:                     Development Business:            Goods:            applicable:
N.A.
Nov, 2001            June,2001                                 Yes                      N A.
Retroacttve Financtng:       No                                                   Advance Procurement:  No
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
Each Entity will be responsible for its own procurement management of the project.
The Federation Local Development Foundation and the Republika Srpska Development and Employment Foundation will oversec all
procurement activities and ensure that procurement is done in accordance with the World Bank procedures with support from external
consultants as needed.
The Foundations will report on procurement matters in their Quartcrly Progress Reports.
Co-financing: Explain briefly the Procurement arrangements under co-financing:
All co-financing would be subject to the World Bank procurement procedurcs.
Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsiblefor the procurement in the Project:
Name: Lucas Janssens and Nikola Kerlcta                Extension: 5244 + 3037 and 5244 + 3016
Country Office will provide back-up on procurement issues to project team and will bc assisted in that regard by procurcment advisors.
- 63 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
It is expected that the proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed over a period of three years, which
includes six months for completion of accounts and submission of withdrawal applications. As
there is no standard disbursement profile for Bosnia and Herzegovina, the disbursement forecast is
based on the Bank's experience with financing similar projects in other ECA countries, and other
projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Project's Closing Date is estimated to be August 14,
2004.
The Credit amount of $19.80 million funded by the Bank will be allocated to the Federation of
BiH and Republika Srspka as indicated in Table C. Retroactive financing of SDR 200,000 for
Components A & B of the Project was agreed upon during the negotiations for consultant
services after July 2001, but before signing of the Agreement.
Disbursements against categories described in Table C would be made upon receipt by IDA of
fully documented applications, except for contracts valued at: (i) less than US$100,000 for
consulting firms; (ii) less than US$50,000 for individual consultants; (iii) contracts for goods
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each; and (iv) for all incremental operating costs, all of
which would be made against certified statements of expenditures (SOEs). The incremental costs
consist of additional costs associated with the implementation of the PTAC in both PIUs and the
Tender Bureaus.  The minimum size of application for direct withdrawals and issuance of
commitments from the IDA Credit account would be 20 percent of the Authorized Allocation to
the Special Account.
Disbursements from the Credit proceeds would be administered by the respective PIUs, i.e. FSD
in the Federation and DEF in Republika Srspka. FSD and DEF would be responsible for retaining
supporting documentation for SOEs and make them available to IDA supervision missions, as
well as to the auditors. Currently, local banks are not yet fully reliable and financially sound. It is
therefore recommended that banks outside BiH be used for the two special accounts until the
local banking system has sufficiently improved.
Disbursements from the IDA Credit would initially be made on the traditional system
(reimbursements with full documentation and against Statements of Expenditure (SOE), and
direct payments) and would be considered for conversion to the new disbursement procedures
(i.e., based on Project Management Reports - PMRs) after the FMS is operating satisfactory.
The target date for this conversion is around 1 year after the project start date.
Table C below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the Percentage of expenditures
for items so to be financed in each Category:
- 64 -



Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
..~~~~~~~~~ _ i it i
~~~~ e
A.    Part A of the Project (the
Federation of BiH)
100% of foreign
expenditures and
(1)    Goods                                           270,000       80% of local
expenditures
procured locally
(2)    Consultant Services                           7,570,000       90%
90% of expenditures
incurred through
(3)    Incremental operating costs                     570,000       December 31,2002
expenditures
incurred thereafter
(4)    Unallocated                                     390,000
SUBTOTAL                                     8,800,000
B.    Part A of the Project (Republika
Srpska)
100% of foreign
expenditures and
(1)    Goods                                           270,000       80% of local
expenditures
.___________________________________  procured locally
(2)    Consultant Services                           5,650,000       90%
90% of expenditures
incurred through
(3)    Incremental operating costs                     570,000       December 31,2002
expenditures
incurred thereafter
(4)    Unallocated                                     310.000
SUBTOTAL                                     6,800,000    _
- 65 -



Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Replenishment applications should be submitted on a monthly basis and must be fully documented
and supported by statements and reconciliation statements. Disbursements should be made based
on SOE for (i) contracts for individual consultants valued at less than US$50,000; (ii) consulting
firms valued at less than US$100,000; (iii) contracts for goods costing less than US$100,000
equivalent each; and (iv) all incremental operating costs. This documentation will be made
available for the required audit as well as to Bank Supervision Mission, and will be retained by the
FSD and DEF respectively for at least one year receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the last
fiscal year in which disbursement was made.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina will
establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, two separate
Special Accounts, one for the Federation (A) and one for Republika Srpska (B), denominated in
Euros. FBiH authorized allocation is EUR 1,200,000, limited to EUR 500,000 until withdrawal
has reached SDR 1 million. RS authorized allocation is EUR 900,000, limited to EUR 350,000
until withdrawal has reached SDR 700,000. For PMR disbursement: FBiH authorized allocation
should not exceed EUR 2.4 million. RS authorized allocation should not exceed EUR 1.8 million.
Annex 6(b): Review of Financial Management Arrangements
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Privatization Technical Assistance Credit
1.  Introduction
Review of the Financial Management Systems were undertaken between January 2001 and May
2001, to (a) assess the project's capacity and readiness for the implementation of LACI; (b)
review the presence of the necessary elements for sound project financial management system
such as internal controls, project accounting, project staffing and audit arrangements; and (c)
prepare a time-bound action plan for strengthening the financial management system to achieve
Project Management Report (PMR)-based disbursement that would assist the project to move
towards LACI. A report on the Review of Financial Management System is included in the
project files and in the Project Implementation Plan.
2.  Project Management and Coordination
The proposed Credit is a single operation with two parts, one in each Entity (one in Republika
Srpska and the other in Federation of BiH). The IDA Credit will be lent to the Government of
Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will on-lend the proceeds of the Credit to the Federation of
Bosnia and Herzegovina (FBiH) and Republika Srpska (RS). The Directorate for Privatization in
Republika Srpska and the Privatization Agency in the Federation would be responsible for the
- 66 -



overall execution of the Privatization TA Credit.
The Credit would be implemented with the help of two separate Project Implementation Units,
one in Republika Srpska and one in the Federation. In Republika Srpska, the Development and
Employment Fund (DEF) will assist in implementing the project. In the Federation, the
implementation of the Project would be undertaken by the Foundation for Sustainable
Development (FSD) which is a legal entity created for the management of Sustainable
Development Foundation. The DEF and FSD will be charged with managing contracting and
expenditure under the project and co-coordinating project activities.  Each Entity will be
responsible for its own financial management of the project. Both DEF and FSD have the
necessary financial management capacities to implement the PTAC. The FSD and DEF would
closely coordinate and liaise with other government agencies in the Federation and RS, in
particular the FPA, DfP, the Tender Bureaus and the World Bank.
3.  Financial Management System Assessment - Federation of BiH
3.1 Organization of the FSD
The implementation of the Project would be undertaken by the Foundation for Sustainable
Development (FSD), a legal entity created for the management of Sustainable Development
Foundation. The FSD would have the following staffing:
>   General Director
>   Project Directors and project implementation staff for the various projects, including Local
Development Project, Second Local Initiatives Project, Community Development Project,
and Privatization Technical Assistant Credit
>   General corporate support services group, including MIS, procurement,  financial
management, legal, monitoring and evaluation, and general office support
The financial management system and the finance manager of the Emergency Public Works and
Employment Project (LORA) will form the backbone of the financial department of the FSD, as
the former can provide such services. LORA has been assessed by the Bank of meeting the
minimum financial requirements, during the preparation of the Pilot Emergency Labor
Redeployment Project and also SOTAC.
The FSD would be responsible for the implementing of a transparent financial management,
monitoring and evaluation, and all project activities, supervision of executing agencies and
consultants. To facilitate their work, the Project would support the FSD through financing
reasonable operating costs, financing technical assistance (for capacity building and studies), and
carrying out a staff development program.
Discussion was carried out with the Finance Manager of LORA explaining the financial
management requirements, including internal controls, accounting, reporting, staff, budgeting, and
auditing. The financial management and internal organization controls were reviewed by visiting
the proposed FSD to evaluate the presence of capable employees, their educational and
- 67 -



experience levels, existence of written standards and procedures including clear responsibilities
and levels of authority, audit arrangement and financial management and reporting system.
Issues and recommendations
On April 25, 2001, the Federation of BiH agreed on the institutional arrangement for the merger
of the FSD, LORA and LID. By effectiveness date, a fully functioning and operational Foundation
must be in place.
3.2   Staffing of the Accounting/Finance Function
Projects currently managed by the new finance department could include Local Development
Project, Emergency Public Work and Employment Project (finishing in mid-2001), Pilot
Emergency Labor Redeployment Project (contract until early 2001), Social Sector Technical
Assistance Project (contract until early 2001), LIP II (under preparation), Community
Development Project (CDP)(under preparation), and the PTAC. The FSD will have a Finance
Manager and additional financial officers as required. The Finance Manager is familiar with
financial and accounting systems as well as Bank requirements, as she has been involved in several
new projects which comply with LACI requirements. She would be responsible for all aspects of
the financial management and accounting including managing the special accounts, maintaining
books of accounts, reporting, day-to-day transactions and would be the liaison between the
entities under the sub-projects. The Finance manager of the FSD is acceptable to the World Bank.
Issues and recommendations
When the FSD starts implementing the three new projects (including LIP II, CDP, and PTAC), it
will need to recruit additional accountants as required, acceptable to the Bank.
3.3 Accounting and Internal Controls
Project accounting will comply with the International Accounting Standards. The local accounting
standards, which are based on International Accounting Standards, have been adopted by the
Federation from January 1, 1999. Donor agencies are currently providing training to local
accountants to familiarize them with the new standards.
The FSD has extensive experience with World Bank's financed project as its predecessors have
assisted in implementing World Bank's financed project. It has established key internal control
mechanisms for the application and use of funds.
Issues and recommendations
A Financial Manual will be completed prior to Board Presentation; it will include the
establishment of financial policies and procedures, the proper delegation and segregation of
financial authorities, the implementation of proper internal control procedures, and installing
- 68 -



proper budgeting and planning.
3.4 Computerized Accounting Systems
FSD would be responsible for overall project financial management and accounting. It would
maintain books of accounts for the project, prepare and disseminate financial statements and
financial management reports, and ensure timely audit of the financial statements. The accounting
system of LORA has been evaluated and assessed in May and September 2000. Detailed
discussions were carried out with the Financial Manager in the LORA (now FSD). The following
issues were discussed and explained: the financial management and LACI requirements, including
accounting, reporting, internal control, budgeting, auditing, Financial Manual, and accounting
system. It is stressed that proper arrangements will have to be put in place to ensure that the
accounting records generated are accurate and reliable. It was explained that specific books and
records will have to designed and set up as soon as possible. At a minimum, there should be a
general ledger and cash disbursement journal, with account distribution headings corresponding to
the project components and activities, project disbursement categories, project funding source and
project chart of accounts.
The FSD will use the accounting system currently used by LORA. The latter uses an in-house
designed financial management system, which is specifically designed for the World Bank's
project and reporting under non-LACI requirements. This accounting software system, which is
based on Visual Basic Database, appears to be well developed by an external consultant a few
years ago and subsequently enhanced by LORA's MIS staff. It consists of the following modules:
financial, procurement and reporting. The financial modules include 4 sub-modules: Payments la,
Reports I a, Other Categories, and Reports by Other Categories. It appears that the payments are
entered into the system based on the disbursement categories. The reporting sub-modules
currently allows the LORA to print detail reports but not the financial statements. These financial
statements are prepared on Excel, based on the various reports generated under Reports la and
Report by Other categories. The procurement module enables LORA to enter all necessary
information on procurement matters. The financial software has adequate security levels. The
accounting software is capable of producing PMRs but it requires some enhancement. Based on
the initial assessment, FSD's accounting system will meet the Bank's minimum reporting
requirement. However it is currently enhancing the system to incorporate planning and budgeting
module so that it can produce most PMRs reliably.
The FSD was provided with guidelines for the selection of accounting software which could be
able to provide information and reports in compliance with LACI requirements. Software
evaluation checklist was also provided to the FSD.
Issues and recommendations
By March 31, 2001, the FSD had finalized the ownership issue of the accounting software license.
By June 30, 2001, the FSD must strengthen its accounting system to ensure (a) it is in full LACI
compliance and capable of producing reliable and accurate PMRs, and (b) it is able of coping with
multiple projects simultaneously.
- 69 -



3.5 Audited Financial Statements and Management Letters
This review relates to the audited financial statements and management letters for the years ended
December 31,1999 and for the period ended September 30, 2000, in the two projects
implemented by LORA and LID. The auditors gave a clean audit opinion on the audited financial
statements for these projects. No serious control weaknesses were identified by the auditors in the
1999 and 2000 audits.
3.6 Budgeting and Planning
The FSD currently prepares quarterly budgets for all the LDP and PELRP. It has good planning
and budgeting capacity, which would enable them to prepare sound plans and budgets for the
proposed PTAC.
Issues and recommendations
To ensure that the counterpart funding for the projects are available, the FSD will prepare and
deliver in time the required budgets to the Federation Government. These information will have
to be submitted to the Federation MOF in order to be allocated as a separate "line" in the
consolidated annual budget of the MOF.
3.7 Financial Manual
The FSD (LORA) has recently completed an acceptable Financial Manual for the LDP, PELRP,
and SOTAC. These Financial Manuals are reasonably prepared, adequate and comprehensive for
the FSD and LORA. The internal control procedures for their current system were reviewed and
found to be adequate. However it is necessary for the FSD to modify the Financial Manual to
reflect the specifics of this new project.
Issues and recommendations
By April 15, 2001, the FSD completed a draft standard Financial Manual acceptable to the Bank.
3.8 Conclusion
It is concluded that the FSD has a financial management system which meets the Bank's minimum
financial management requirements, because of the following:
*   FSD has a computerized accounting system which meet the Bank's minimum financial
management requirements.
*   FSD has written Financial Manuals describing the accounting policies and procedures,
internal controls, delegation of responsibilities and authorities, transaction flows, for the
PELLIP II. However it needs to be modified to comply with this project.
*   The Finance Manager is acceptable to the Bank.
- 70 -



However, to be eligible for PMR-based disbursement, FSD should implement the following
actions:
*   Finalize organization structure (acceptable to the Bank) of the FSD and of the financial
management/accounting section.
*   Recruitment of possible additional accountant, acceptable to the Bank, when the FSD starts
implement other new projects.
*   Enhance the existing accounting system which will enable FSD to prepare all quarterly
PMRs.
*   Modify the Financial Manual to reflect specifics of this project.
4.  Financial Management System Assessment - Republika Srpska
4.1 Organization of the DEF
The implementation of the Project would be undertaken by DEF, previously known as
Employment and Training Foundation (ETF). The DEF has extensive experience with the Bank's
financed projects, including Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project, Local Initiative
Project, Emergency Public Work and Employment Project, Local Development Project, Pilot
Emergency Labor Redeployment Project, and the new Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit.
The DEF consists of a small group of professional managers and project staff.
The DEF will be charged with managing contracting and expenditure under the project and
co-coordinating project activities. It would be responsible for overall Financial Management
System (FMS), procurement, Management and Information System (MIS), Monitoring and
Evaluation and developing and updating operations manuals. The DEF would also coordinate
and liaise with other govemment agencies in the RS, in particular DFP and the World Bank. It
would maintain and update a database on service providers.
The DEF has met the minimum financial management requirements acceptable to the World Bank
during the implementation of the Local Development Project (LDP) in September 1999, the Pilot
Emergency Labor Redeployment Project (PELRP) in May 2000, and SOTAC in September 2000.
Assuming that the existing staff will be retained for the PTAC, detailed discussions were carried
out with the existing DEF's staff (Director and Financial Manager) explaining the financial
management requirements, including internal controls, accounting, reporting, staff, budgeting, and
auditing. The financial management and internal organization controls were reviewed by visiting
the DEF to evaluate the presence of capable employees, their educational and experience levels,
existence of written standards and procedures including clear responsibilities and levels of
authority, audit arrangement and financial management and reporting system.
Issues and recommendations
The DEF has an effective organizational structure, which manages revenue generating and
non-revenue eaming projects efficiently.
- 71 -



4.2 Staffing of the Accounting/Finance Function
The DEF has an Executive Director, a Finance Manager, and two accountants. The Finance
Manager is familiar with financial and accounting systems as well as Bank requirements. He
would be responsible for all aspects of the financial management and accounting including
managing the special accounts, maintaining books of accounts, reporting, day-to-day transactions
and would be the liaison between the entities under the sub-projects. However, the finance
manager by himself would not be able to carry out all of the above mentioned activities without
assistance. One of the two existing accountants (both of them are considered acceptable to the
Bank) would assist him in carrying out the routine day-to-day activities. The DEF had agreed to
assign one of the two accountants to look after the Privatization T.A. Credit. Additional staff will
be recruited if necessary.
Issues and recommendations
While the finance manager and accountants are acceptable to the Bank, the DEF may need to
recruit additional accounting staff when it starts implementing additional projects, including the
LIP II, the proposed Community Development Project, and PTAC.
4.3 Accounting and Internal Controls
DEF has extensive experience with World Bank's financed projects. It has implemented several
World Bank's financed projects, including Local Initiative Project, Local Development Project,
Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project, Emergency Public Works and Employment
Project, the Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project, and the new SOTAC. It has
established key internal control mechanisms on the application and use of funds. Furthermore, it
has completed Financial Manuals for the Local Development Pilot Project and Pilot Emergency
Labor Redeployment Project describing the internal controls, including adequate authorization
and segregation of duties control checklist, regular reconciliation, etc.
Issues and recommendations
A Financial Manual will be completed prior to Board Presentation; it will include the
establishment of financial policies and procedures, the proper delegation and segregation of
financial authorities, the implementation of proper internal control procedures, and installing
proper budgeting and planning.
4.4   Computerized Accounting Systems
DEF would be responsible for overall project financial management and accounting. DEF would
maintain books of accounts for the project, prepare and disseminate financial statements and
financial management reports, and ensure timely audit of the financial statements. During the
implementation of the LDP, the DEF implemented a computerized accounting system (Scala) that
complies with international accounting standards and meets the PMR-based FMS requirements.
- 72 -



The additional license bought by DEF during the financial management assessment for the
PELRP, complies with the local accounting reporting requirements, especially the chart of
account for the public sector, and also would meet the needs of the Bank. However, the system
currently does not recognize year when producing the PMRs for the first quarter in 2001 and the
DEF is discussing with the provider to correct the problem.
Issues and recommendations
The accounting system meets the minimum reporting requirements of the Bank capable of
producing PMRs in accordance with the LACI requirements.
4.5 Audited Financial Statements and Management Letters
This review relates to the audited financial statements and management letters for the years ended
December 31, 1999 and for the period ended September 30, 2000, in the three projects
implemented by DEF in RS (including Local Initiative Project, Emergency Demobilization and
Reintegration Project, and Emergency Public Works and Employment Project). The auditors gave
a clean audit opinion on the audited financial statements for these projects. There were no serious
accounting issues and controls weaknesses reported by the auditors.
4.6 Planning and Budgeting
DEF has a good capacity in planning and budgeting. DEF has recent experience in planning and
budgeting during the implementation of the Local Development Project and PELRP. The 2000
and 2001 budgets for LDP and PELRP have been properly prepared, in accordance with the PMR
format (disbursement categories, components and activities, financiers, account codes, and by
month) and are in line with the Bank's project requirements.
Issues and recommendations
To ensure that the counterpart funding for the projects are available, the DEF will prepare and
deliver in time the required budgets to the RS Government for the required counterpart
contribution. This inforrnation will have to be submitted to the Ministry of Finance of RS and be
allocated as a separate "line" in the Ministry's consolidated annual budget.
4.7 Financial Manual
The DEF has completed comprehensive and adequate Financial Manuals for LDP and PELRP.
The internal control procedures for their current system were reviewed and found to be adequate.
However it is necessary for the DEF to modify the Financial Manual to reflect the specifics of this
project.
- 73 -



Issues and recommendations
By April 15, 2001, DEF had completed a draft Financial Manual acceptable to the Bank.
4.8 Conclusion
DEF has a financial management system which will meet the Bank's minimum financial
management requirements because:
*   The DEF has implemented computerized accounting system during the implementation of
LDP and PELRP.
*   The DEF has written Financial Manuals describing the accounting policies and procedures,
internal controls, delegation of responsibilities and authorities, transaction flows, for the
LDP and PELRP.
*   The DEF has an accounting/finance department, consisting of a finance manager and two
accountants acceptable to the Bank.
However to be eligible for PMR-based disbursement, DEF should take the following actions:
*   Enhance the existing accounting system to enable the DEF to prepare quarterly PMRs.
*   Modify the Financial Manual to reflect the specifics of this project.
5.    Accounting and Financial Flows
FSD and DEF would generate and maintain vouchers and supporting documentation for
expenditures on all activities of the project. The financial flows for all activities in the PTAC will
be as follows: (a) direct payment from Special Accounts to consulting firms for large contracts;
(b) payments from Special Accounts or local bank accounts to consultants for small contracts; and
(c) payment from local bank accounts for the project's recurrent operating expenses. The FSD
and DEF will document the accounting transaction information flow for accounting purposes:
(i)  The Tender sale of enterprises ("dealmakers'). The dealmaker firms for large contracts will
be paid from Special Accounts on a quarterly basis; the international dealmaker individuals
for smaller contracts will be paid from Special Accounts on a monthly basis. However,
payments for more than [US$ 100,000] in value will be made from the Credit Account. The
payments for these consultant services will be based on approved invoices in accordance
with the payment schedules in the contracts. These invoices must be certified by the
director of the DfP or the FPA, the Senior Privatization Program Advisor in RS or the
FBiH, and then by the project manager in the DEF or the FSD before the financial staff can
process them. The local individual consultants will be paid from local bank accounts on a
monthly basis, and will be based on approved invoices as specified in the contracts. The
- 74 -



authorization must be prepared by the accountant and signed by the Project Director in the
DEF or the FSD.
(ii)  Utility Privatization (advisers). The Credit will make payments from Special Accounts to
consulting firms (Utility Privatization Advisers). The payments for these consultant services
will be based on approved invoices in accordance with the payment schedules in the
contracts. However, payments for more that [US$100,000] in value will be made from
Credit Account. These invoices must be certified by the director of the DfP or the FPA, the
Senior Privatization Program Advisors in RS or the FBiH, and then by the project manager
in the DEF or the FSD before the financial staff can process them. The payments will be
made on a quarterly basis.
(iii) Technical assistance on unbundling, concessions, insolvency and studies (consultants). The
Credit will make payment from Special Accounts to consulting firms for large contracts on a
quarterly basis and to international consulting individuals for smaller contracts on a monthly
basis. The payments for these consultant services will be based on approved invoices in
accordance with the payment schedules in the contracts. However, payments for more than
[US$100,000] in value will be made from the Credit Account. These invoices must be
certified by the director of the DfP or the FPA, the Senior Privatization Program Advisors in
RS or the FBiH, and then by the project manager in the DEF or the FSD before the
financial staff can process them. The local individual consultants will be paid from local bank
accounts on a monthly basis. The payments will be based on approved invoices as specified
in the contracts. The authorization must be prepared by the accountant and signed by the
Project Director in the DEF or the FSD.
(iv) Capital Market Development (consultants). The Credit will make payment from Special
Accounts to two international capital market specialists on a monthly basis. The payments
will be based on approved invoices as specified in the contracts. These invoices of the
payments in RS or the FBiH must be certified by the director of the DfP or the FPA, and
then by the project manager in the DEF or the FSD before the financial staff can process
them. The payments will be on a monthly basis. The four local capital market consultants
will be paid from local bank accounts on monthly basis. The payments will be based on
approved invoices as specified in the contracts. The authorization must be prepared by the
accountant and signed by the Project Director.
The stock market software and equipment will be funded from local bank accounts, payable
to suppliers. The payments will be based on approved invoices as specified in the contracts.
These invoices must be certified by the director of the DfP or the FPA, and then by the
project manager in the DEF or the FSD before the financial staff can process them.
(v)  Institutional support for FPA and DfP. The Credit will make payment from Special
Accounts to two Senior Privatization Program Advisers on a monthly basis. The payments
will be based on approved invoices as specified in the contracts. These invoices of the
payments in RS or the FBiH must be certified by the director of the DfP or the FPA, and
then by the project manager in the DEF or the FSD before the financial staff can process
- 75 -



them.
(vi) One international environment expert who will support and train the two locally recruited
environmental specialists in both DfP and FPA, will be paid from Special Accounts on a
monthly basis. The payments will be based on approved invoices as specified in the
contracts. These invoices must be certified by the director of the DfP or the FPA, the Senior
Privatization Program Advisors in RS or the FBiH, and then by the project manager in the
DEF or the FSD before the financial staff can process them. The local environment
specialists will be paid from local bank accounts on monthly basis. The payments will be
based on approved invoices as specified in the contracts. The authorization must be
prepared by the accountant and signed by the Project Director.
(vii) Public awareness campaign costs will be funded from local bank accounts on a monthly
basis. The payments will be based on approved invoices as specified in the contracts. These
invoices must be certified by the directors of the DfP or the FPA, and then by the project
manager in the DEF or the FSD before the financial staff can process them.
(viii) Tender Bureaus operating costs. The operating costs of the Tender Bureaus (TBs) will be
partly funded from local bank accounts on monthly basis. The payments will be based on
approved invoices as specified in the contracts. These invoices must be certified by the
director of the DfP or the FPA, and then by the project mana,ger in the DEF or the FSD
before the financial staff can process them.
(ix) PIUs operating costs. The Credit will fund the incremental operating costs of the FSD and
DEF. The financial flow for this component is straightforward, including payments of
salaries and associated costs to employees and appropriate authorities, and operational costs
of the FSD and DEF payable to external suppliers.
(x)  Institutional support for regulatory framework. Some training and study fees regarding the
telecommunication and gas regulators will be funded from local bank accounts on monthly
basis. The payments will be based on approved invoices as specified in the contracts. These
invoices must be certified by the director of the DfP or the FPA, and then by the project
manager in the DEF or the FSD before the financial staff can process them.
6.   Financial Management Reports
Both Entities will independently maintain accounts for their part of the Project and will ensure
appropriate accounting of the funds provided. Each Entity will be responsible for designing
appropriate PMRs and preparing PMR on a quarterly basis, and will furnish the PMRs for such
period to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, which:
(i)  sets forth actual sources and application of funds for the project, both cumulatively and for
the period covered by said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the
project for the six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (ii) shows
separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered
- 76 -



by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
during the six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(ii) describes physical progress in project implementation, both cumulatively and for the period
covered by said report; and (ii) explains variances between the actual and previously forecast
implementation targets; and
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the project and expenditures under contracts
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, at the end of the period covered by said report.
A thorough presentation of the PMR requirements has been provided to the project staff. LACI
Implementation Handbook and Draft Project Financial Management Manual were provided to the
DEF in the RS and the FSD in the Federation.
Issues and recommendations
By June 30, 2001, FSD and DEF are to prepare draft sample PMRs incorporating all components,
categories and performance indicators. By February 15, 2002, the FSD and DEF will submit the
first PMRs to the Bank for the quarter ended December 31, 2001.
7.    Financial and Implementation Risks
From the financial management perspective, the Privatization Technical Assistance project is
considered a high-risk project. In addition to the general overall risk associated with trying to sell
a large number of state-owned enterprises to strategic investors in a complex institutional and
organizational environment, the following financial management risks could adversely affect
project implementation: (i) inadequate intemal controls mechanism in FSD and DEF to manage
the flow of information, data, transactions and payments; (ii) delays in preparation of project
management reports; (iii) poor accounting environment and few qualified accountants in BiH, and
(iv) misuse of project funds. In addition to the financial management risks, the Privatization T.A.
project carries considerable implementation risks. These risks, however, are considered
manageable due to the various risk-mitigation measures taken.
In order to manage these risks, both PIUs - FSD and DEF - have established and documented
internal control mechanisms; they will be applied during implementation of the PTAC. The risks
have been further mitigated by completion of the operational and Financial Manual, incorporating
appropriate measures described below, prior to Board presentation. The Financial Manual will
include the establishment of financial policies and procedures, the proper delegation and
segregation of financial authorities, the implementation of proper intemal control procedures, and
installing proper budgeting and planning process.
There is a risk that preparation of the project management reports would be delayed and that the
quality of the reports may be of variable or unsatisfactory quality, especially given that the FSD
has not previously prepared project financial statements or PMRs. Timely preparation and use of
the project management reports, and satisfactory quality of these reports, are essential to facilitate
- 77 -



effective project management. The risk-mitigation factors are the substantial up-front actions
which are being taken on: (i) design of a comprehensive financial management system; (ii)
computerization of the financial management system; (iii) recruitment of key financial staff to
augment financial management capabilities. When there is a scarcity of appropriate software in
BiH, the Bank will advise the borrower to look elsewhere for proven software. Disbursements
from the IDA Credit will not be made on the basis of Project Management Reports (PMRs), but
will rather be made on the traditional reimbursement basis in the first year. Disbursements will be
converted to the PMR-based method, after the financial management system has been operating
satisfactorily.
Since there are only a limited number of qualified accountants in BiH, the Bank has minimized the
risk of employing unsuitable accountants by (a) specifying the required professional profile for the
positions in the FSD and DEF and (b) making his or her employment subject to prior approval by
the Bank. In order to strengthen the accounting capacity within FSD and DEF, the Bank has
created a special project coordination unit - rather than entrusting the Borrower exclusively with
the financial management -  and specified in considerable detail the concrete accounting
requirements, thereby isolating potential mistakes.
Concerning PTAC, the risk of misuse or fraud will be minimized in the following ways: (a) the
contract to be signed between with FSD and DEF and the winning service providers (consultants)
will contain a clause to assure the utilization of funds according to agreed objectives, as well as a
remedies section, which will include the possibility of black-listing a provider which does not
comply with agreed procedures and/or funds utilization; (b) payments linked to performance:
Payments to service delivery providers to be based on verified deliverables as agreed and
stipulated in contracts. These invoices must be certified by the Directors of the DFP and FPA
respectively, the Senior Privatization Program Advisers, and by the project manager before they
can be processed by the financial staff; (c) contracts with service providers to be based on
appraised capacity; (d) close monitoring and supervision by FSD and DEF; (e) supervision of
financial flows will be carried out by the FSD and DEF on a sample basis and by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank on a yearly basis; and (f) intensive supervision by the World
Bank. Overall supervision, including procurement supervision, will be undertaken on a periodic
basis by Bank staff.
There is a risk that a functioning Foundation (merging existing FSD, LID and LORA) in
Federation may not be fully operational. The establishment of a functioning Foundation, especially
the accounting unit, is therefore a condition of negotiation. If this cannot be achieved, a timetable
for establishing a Foundation before effectiveness must be presented. The accounting unit must,
however, be functioning before negotiations.
In addition to the financial management risks, the Privatization T.A. project carries considerable
implementation risks. The main ones are as follows: (i) the facts that (a) many of BiH's
state-owned enterprises have been loss making and/or are heavily indebted and that (b) they have
been operating on small markets, i.e. BiH or even on the two Entity markets, does not augur well
for identifying dominant investors within the country or abroad; (ii) the intention to sell
simultaneously a large number of enterprises puts a heavy administrative burden on the Tender
- 78 -



Bureaus, the "dealmakers", the DfP, FPA, CPAs and the governments, especially since the
institutional arrangements and administrative procedures are still new and have not yet been
tested; (iii) in recent years, the authorities have benefited from advice from the international
community in many reform areas, including privatization of enterprises. Decision and
deal-making, rather than policy advice is, however, at the heart of the PTAC. Project
implementation delays could result from a misunderstanding of these two forms of international
assistance; (iv) the quality of the "dealmakers" and Senior Privatization Program Advisors could
be below intemational standards which would result in unsatisfactory enterprise sales; (v) the
perception of widespread corruption associated with the privatization program in BiH could lead
to a disinterest on the part of potential investors, of a rejection of the tender process by the
population and/ or a withdrawal of support from the international community.
While these risks can not be fully eliminated, the following mitigating measures have been taken
to reduce the implementation risks to manageable levels: (i) assist the authorities in carrying out
debt workouts as an essential prerequisite for preparing enterprises for privatization (see relevant
project component), and treat the tender privatization in the two Entities, as much as currently
feasible, as a process in a single economic space (same tender criteria, same administrative set
ups, same profiles of "dealmakers" and Senior Privatization Program Advisors, etc.); (ii) employ a
sizable number of local and international "dealmakers" coordinated by the Senior Privatization
Program Advisors, and enforce simple and transparent, yet efficient, tender processes; in order to
reduce the number of enterprise sales to manageable tasks they will be grouped together (batch)
whenever this makes good economic sense; (iii) monitorable deadlines for arriving at decisions
required at the various steps towards enterprise sale will be enforced; (iv) proceed with utmost
professional diligence and care in selecting both local and international "dealmakers" and Senior
Privatization Program Advisors; replace them as soon as underperformance becomes apparent; (v)
establish and publish credible anti-corruption devices as an integral part of project
implementation, such as : public relations campaign highlighting transparency of tender process,
including regular announcement and publication of sales proceeds in accounts established
specifically for tender sales; public invalidation of sales in cases of irregular, illegal or other
violations of tender processes; punishment of corrupt persons involved in tender privatization, of
both sellers and buyers.
Issues and recommendations
The overall financial management and implementation risk of this project is high and is reflected in
the PAD, under risk analysis. Adequate measures are to be taken by the FSD and DEF to ensure
all financial management and implementation risks are identified and adequate mitigation measures
are incorporated in the operational and Financial Manuals.
8.    Cost and Financial Performance
The project's financing plan, which includes the Credit from the Bank, and the project's planned
expenditures have been realistically estimated and the project is financially sustainable. In order to
facilitate the implementation of PMRs, the project's cost tables include an appropriate cost
matrix, which adequately shows the relationship between the loan agreement categories and
- 79 -



project components.
Issues and recommendations
Counterpart financing will be agreed during negotiation. The governmnents must assure that the
counterpart funding would be made available when the credit becomes effective. During the
implementation phase, such funding must be incorporated in the Entity budgets. To ensure that
the counterpart funding for the projects are available, the FSD and DEF will prepare and deliver
in time the required financial statements and budgets to the Entities MOFs for the counterpart
contribution. This information will be submitted to the Entities MOFs in order to be allocated as a
separate "line" in the consolidated annual budget of the MOFs.
9.    Auditing Arrangements
Both FSD and DEF will be responsible for ensuring that the financial statements, special account,
and Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) or Project Management Reports (PMRs) are audited by an
independent international auditor, a member of a professional body that is a member of the
International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) and acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with
standards on auditing that are acceptable to the Bank.
The annual audit will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting
and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982). The audit report shall be in
a format in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing promulgated by the
Intemational Federation of Accountants (IFAC). The audit report will include a separate opinion
for SOEs or PMRs against which disbursements have been made or are due to be made from the
Credit and SOEs or PMRs, which will be included in the audit report accompanying the financial
statements. The audited financial statements of the special accounts, and SOEs or PMRs of the
preceding fiscal year, including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements made against
certified statement of expenditures, will be sent to the Bank within six (6) months of the end of
the Government's fiscal year.
The audit of the financial statement will include: (a) an assessment of the adequacy of accounting
and internal control systems to monitor expenditures and other financial transactions and ensure
safe custody of project-financed assets; (b) a determination as to whether the project
implementing entities have maintained adequate documentation on all relevant transactions; and
(c) verification that expenditures submitted to the Bank are eligible for financing, and
identification of any ineligible expenditures.
In addition, the FSD and DEF will be required to have an institutional audit as a revenue-earning
Foundation. By effectiveness, each Foundation will appoint an independent auditing firm,
acceptable to the Association, to perform the annual audits of the its financial statements in
accordance with the TORs to be agreed with the Bank.
Presently the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations (MFTER) signed a 3-year
contract (1998-2000, renewal yearly) with PriceWaterhouseCoopers Netherlands for the audit of
- 80 -



all Bank's financed projects (excluding revenue-earning entities) in BiH. The summary of 1999
project audits include:
*    16 audit reports (representing 100% of the projects audited) were received by June 27,
2000.
*   Except for Investment Guarantee Agency (Emergency Industrial Restart Project) which was
qualified because of the lack of audit in the prior year, the auditors issued unqualified/clean
opinion.
*   No significant financial risks were identified during the audit of the Bank's financed projects.
*   No major weaknesses but some internal control weaknesses were reported in the
management letters.
The weaknesses reported include:
*   Several PIUs did not prepare financial statements in World Bank prescribed format. The
audited financial statements were prepared with the assistance of the auditors.
*   No responsible PIU for the preparation of the consolidated project financial statements. The
consolidated project financial statements were prepared by the auditors, based on the
financial statements of the reporting units.
*   Lack of explicit accounting policies and procedures on project assets when the project is
closed.
*   Lack of explicit accounting policies and procedures on the application of the interest on
local accounts.
*   Only one ZPP/Giro account per PIU - Lack of reconciliation of all bank accounts.
In September 2000, the MFTER signed an annex to the original contract with the same auditing
firm for the audit of closed projects during 2000. In March 2001, the MFTER signed an
additional annex for the 2000 audits, year ended 31 December 2000. This arrangement would be
acceptable to the World Bank. The Ministry of Treasury (MOT), the new ministry responsible for
the audit, is expected to continue with this approach in the foreseeable future.
Issues and recommendations
By April 15, 2001, the FSD and DEF will need to submit a written notification to the Bank from
the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH that the Privatization Technical
Assistance Credit will be included in the global auditing contract. It is expected that the cost of
audit will be partly financed from the Credit. Each Foundation would appoint, by effectiveness, an
independent auditing firm, acceptable to the Association, to perform the annual audits of the its
financial statements.
10.   Conclusion
It is concluded that the FSD and DEF currently satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management
requirements. However, the FSD and DEF do not have in place an adequate project financial
management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information
- 81 -



on the status of the project (Project Management Reports (PMRs)) as required by the Bank/IDA.
An action plan (see section 12 below) was discussed with the DEF in RS and the FSD in the
Federation during appraisal. It will require the FSD and DEF to design and implement
satisfactory financial management systems. Once this time-bound action plan has been carried out
successfully, it is believed that the project will have developed an accounting system that will be
able to produce the required level of financial management reports in a timely fashion.
- 82 -



11.   Agreed Action Plan for the FSD and DEF
In order to ensure that the project will have a sound financial management system in place, the
following time-bound Action Plan has been agreed:
1. Submit a written notification to the Bank by the Ministry of   April 15, 2001 (done)
Treasury (MOT) of BiH that the Privatization Technical
Assistance Credit has been included among other projects to
be audited by the Auditor acceptable to the Bank.
2. The Federation of BiH  is to finalize the institutional   April 24, 2001 (done)
arrangement for the merger of the FSD and ETF and agree on
a time-bound action plan to establish the new Foundation.
3. FSD to finalize the ownership issue of the accounting    April 15, 2001 (done)
software.
4. Complete standard Financial Manuals by FSD and DEF, with    April 15, 2001 (done)
supplementary section for this project.
5. Design reporting requirements (draft PMR template) for        June 30, 2001
review by the Financial Management Specialist.
6. Upgrade accounting system capable of producing PMRs, in       June 30, 2001
accordance with LACI requirements.
7. Each Foundation would appoint an independent auditing firm,    By effectiveness date
acceptable to the Association, to perform the annual audits of
the its financial statements.
8. Finalization of 2001  Budget, including recording and    By effectiveness date
allocation of total budget in the accounting system - by
month, and by year, by activities, by categories, by sources
and by account codes.
9. Finalization of 2002  Budget, including recording and    December 31, 2001
allocation of total budget in the accounting system - by
month, and by year, by activities, by categories, by sources
and by account codes.
10. Reliable PMRs satisfactory to the World Bank.            February 15, 2002
11. Budget and budget revisions are reasonable and accurate    November 15, 2002
when compared against the actual.
12. Satisfactory supervision report, including FM implementation.    November 15, 2002
13. Satisfactory withdrawal applications.                   November 15, 2002
14. Satisfactory audit, especially internal controls.       November 15, 2002
15. Review of the financial management arrangements by the    November 30, 2002
Financial Management Specialist to assess readiness for
PMR-based disbursements.
- 83 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Privatization Technical Assistance Project
oect Schedule                                       Planned                       Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        6                             8
First Bank mission (identification)               09/01/2000                    09/01/2000
Appraisal mission departure                       02/13/2001                    03/12/2001
Negotiations                                      04/15/2001                    05/17/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     07/15/2001                    09/01/2001-
Prepared by:
World Bank
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Speciality
Core Team
Ulrich Hewer                     Team Leader
Yibin Mu                         Financial Economist
Siew Chai Ting                   Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Elly J. Gudmundsdottir           Legal Counsel
Joseph Paul Formoso               Sr. Disbursement Officer
Peter L. Law                      Sr. Gas Specialist
Felix Martin                     Energy Economist
Lucas Janssens                    Sr. Procurement Specialist
Nikola Kerleta                    Procurement Analyst
Anil Markandya                   Lead Environmental Specialist
Lada Stoyanova                    Sr. Operations Officer
Steve Dimitriyev                 Enterprise Privatization and Restructuring Specialist (Consultant)
Gareth Locksley                   Sr. Telecom Specialist
John Oliver Moss                  Sr. Procurement Specialist
Manny F. Santiago                Program Assistant
Nermina Sljivo                    Team Assistant
Peer Reviewers:
Charles E. Woodruff (PSASP)       Lead Private Sector Specialist
John Nellis                       Consultant
Quality Assurance:
Paul J. Siegelbaum                Sector Director
Khaled Sherif                     Sector Manager
John Hegarty                     Regional Financial Management Advisor
Sunil Bhattacharya                Regional Procurement Advisor
- 84 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Privatization Technical Assistance Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
The Project Implementation Plan consists of Terms of References for the implementation
of technical assistance.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Financial Management System Assessment
Procurement Capacity Assessment
Status of Enterprise Privatization in BiH
Additional Unemployment Projection Caused by the Privatization
C. Other
Draft Regulations to Apply to IAGP Privatization and to Replacing the Existing
Regulation
Bosnia and Herzegovina-Staff Report for the 1999 Article IV by the IMF
Bosnia and Herzegovina-Selected Issues and Statistical Appendix by the IMF
*Including electronic files
- 85 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Privatization Technical Assistance Project
May-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                 disbursements
Project to     FY   Purpose                                           IBRD         IDA                            Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P069058        2001 SOSAC I                                               0.00      20.00                              0.00       19.85       0.00       0.00
P070079        2001 TRADE & TRANS FACIL IN SE EUR                         0.00       11.00                             0.00       11.29       0.00       0.00
P070650        2001 SOTAC                                                 0.00       3.55                              0.00        3.63       0.57       0.00
P070146        2000 EMG LABOR REDEPLOYMENT PILOT                          0.00       15.00                             0.00       14 03       3.14       0.00
P058512        2000 EDUC 3                                                0.00       10,60                              0.00       9.14      -0.31       0.00
P057951        2000 MOSTAR WS & SAN                                       0.00       12.00                             0.00       11.28       1.36       0.00
P044523        1999 BASIC HEALTH                                          0.00       10.00                             0.00        7.97       4.06       0.00
P062936        1999 ENT EXP FACIL (BEEF)                                  0.00       12.00                             0.00        8.75       8.62       0.00
P059763        1999 CULTL HERITAGE PILOT                                  0.00       4.00                              0.00        2.89       2.95       0.00
P048461        1999 ENTER & BANKING PRIV                                  0.00      50.00                              0.00       24.39      24.63       0.00
P055432        1999 PFSAC 11                                              0.00      72.00                              0.00       19.15      45.64       0.00
P056192        1999 LOCAL DEVT                                            0.00      15.00                              0.00       13.21       4.35       0.00
P045134        1998 FORESTRY                                              0.00       7.00                              0.00        2.74       3.44       0.00
P045483        1998 ELEC POWER II                                         0.00      25.00                              0.00        5.20       6.12       1.73
P044522        1997 ESSNTL HOSP SERV                                      0.00       15.00                             0.00        0.56       1.48       0.00
Total:        0.00      282.15                              0.00      154.08     106.05        1 73
- 86 -



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
2001               Bosnalijek                      2.36    0.00    0.00     0.00    2.36    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997/99            Bosnia Micro                    0.00    0.27    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.27     0.00    0.00
1985               Energoinvest                    7.57    0.00    0.00     0.00    7.57    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Enterprise Fund                 0.00    1.73    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.73     0.00    0.00
1998               SEF Akova                       1.81    0.00    0.00     0.00     1.81    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               SEF Bosnalijek                  0.00    0.00     1.94    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.94    0.00
1999               SEF Kopex                       1.68    0.00    0.00     0.00     1.68    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               SEF Lignosper                   1.98    0.00    0.00     0.00    1.71    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999               SEF Lijanovici                  2.14    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.14    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997               Sarajevska                      2.46    0.00    0.00     0.00    2.46    0.00     0.00    0.00
1977               TKA Cazin                       3.17    0.00    0.00     0.00    3.17    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998               Wood Agency-AL                  4.25    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998               Wood Inga                       1.50    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.30    0.00     0.00    0.00
0                 Wood Konjuh                    2.14    0.00    0.00      0.00    1.90    0.00     0.00    0.00
0                 Wood Kozara                    1.50    0.00    0.00      0.00    1.26    0.00     0.00    0.00
0                 Wood Podgradci                  1.07    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.88    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998               Wood Vrbas                      1.50    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.30    0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        35.13     2.00    1.94     0.00    27.54    1.00     1.94    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 87 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Privatization Technical Assistance Project
Bosnia  Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                       and    CeCttral   middi-t
Herze9ovWna       Asia  income         Development diamond
t999
Population, mid-vear (rmillons)                             .        475      2,094                  Life expectancy
GNP per csoita (Alias mt7thod. USSJ                         ..     2.150      1.200
GNP (Atlas method LUS$ Sillions)                          4.5      1,022      2,513
Aver3ae annual growth, 1993499
Pooulation (%)                                              *-       0.1        t,1
Labor force (%O .                                                    0.6        1.2      GNP                               Grosrs
per           .         ~~~~~~primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                    capita            .           enrollment
Poverty f% of ppoDilation below national povert  lin.)
Urban Dopulation (% Of total population)                   43         67        43
Life expectancy at birth (years)                           73         69        69
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 live oirths)                  13         22        33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5J                  ..         8         15                Access to safe water
Access to imoroved water source (% of Dooutation)           ..        ..         86
Illiteracy (% of population age 15.)                        -          3         16
Gross Drimary enrollment (% of school-aqo population)      ..        100       114               Bosnia and Herzegovina
Male                                                     ..        101       114               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                    .         99       116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998       1999        - --
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                               .-        ..        4t         4.6
Gross domestic investmenUGOP                                ..      38.0       333                       Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                          ..       33.7       34.0
Gross comestic savinas/GDP                                  ..        .1        9                          T
Gross national savinoslGDP                                  ..      10.9       16.7
Current account balance/GOP                            ..          -27.1      -16.6      Domestic          i _
Interest paymentslGDP                                 ..             1.4        1.4                                    Investment
Total debtlGDP                                                      74.0       67.5
Total debt servicelexports                                 ..        9.6        7.9
Present value of debveGDP                         ..                7425.7      .5       S
Present value of debtGexpt                        ..        .       76.3
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99      1998       1999   1999-03
taveracte annual arowth)
GDP                                      .               12.8       10.0       11.0         -      Bosnia and Herzegovina
GNP per capita                          ..        ..     12,8       10.0       11.1                Lower-middle-income group
Exworts of ooods and servtces           ,,        ..     33.7       11.0       12.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998       1999      Growth of investment and GDP I%)
(% of GDP)                                                                               75 7
Aariculture                                       ..       ..       15.8       15.8
Industrv                                                   ..       27.8       27.8     SD .,.
Manufacturinq                                                         -                25g-
Services                                                    ..      56.4       56.4    o  ;
Private consumDtion                                          ..       ..         9.      -                   6    97   s9   99
General government consumption                     .        .     ..        ..                    -                1  GDOP
Imports of qoods and services                               ..      70.6       57.9
1979-89  1989-99       1998       1999      Growth of exports and imports (b)
(avera,qe annual ,growth)
Agriculture                                       ,,        ,,
Industry                                                    -20
Manufacturinq
Services                                                                                60
Private consumption                                         ..
General aovernment consumption                               ..       ..         ..             9    95   96   97   98   99
Gross domestic investment                                   ..       3.7       -3-5     .0 
Imports of goods and services                               ..       7.8       -9.8              Exporls          0Imports
Gross national product                                     ..       17.3       11.1
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-group averaae. If data are missina. the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 88 -



Bosnia and Herzegovina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989       1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                            20
Consumer prices (in KM, the Federation)          ..        ..55.0                                                     o 10
Implicit GDP deflator                            .
Government finance                                                                                     x    x
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                  -20
Current revenue                                 ..        ..      32.6      29.4    -30
Current budget balance                          ..        ..       -0.6      -3.7              -GDP deflator   OCP
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..        ..      -7.2       -3.0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                         1989       1998      1999      Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                              ..       ..       817       970     3.000 -
n.a.
n.a.                                                                                2.0
Manufactures                                   ..
Total imports (cif)                              ..       ..     2,573     2,399
Food                                                                                1.0~            j j
Fuel and energy V.
Capital goods                                  ..
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..93  94 9.
Import price index (1995=100)                                                                    2a Exports     a Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%
(US$ millions)                                                                         c  curnrent official transfers
Exports of goods and services                   ..        ..     1,367     1,560
Imports of goods and services                   ..        ..     2,864     2,661       0
Resource balance                                 ..        .     -1,498    -1,101    9-
Net income                                       .        ..      -111       -79
Net current transfers                            .        ..       510       417
Current account balance                                          -1,098     -763
Financing items (net)                           ..        ..      1,014    1,347
Changes in net reserves                         ..        ..        85      -583                             _
Memo:                                                                                -30
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..        ..       175       380
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                  .       ..        1.8       1.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1998      1999                       -- -----
(US$ millions)                                                                        Composition of 1998 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             ..        .
IBRD                                          ..        ..       596       596                   G 278
IDA                                            ..       ..       437       373                                 A 596
Total debt service                                                                   I    F 400
IBRD                                                              35        34
IDA2                                                                         3
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                .                 469       735'B43
Official creditors                            ..        ..       181       255
Private creditors                                        .       -75       -74                                    C 77
Foreign direct investment                      ..       ..         0        60
Portfolio equity                              ..        ..         0         0             E: E,.
World Bank program
Commitments                                   ..        ..       100       163      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  .                 135        68      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Pr vate
Principal repayments                          ..        ..         0         0      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                      ..       ..       135        68
Interest payments                             ..        ..        38        36
Net transfers                                 ..        ..        97        32
Development Economics
- 89 -



I
CD



IBRD 28578R
1 6t                xf,trO ~~~~~       ~         ~~Zagreb   1 8          To Osije   
To Zag es                                CROATIA              ,         <To Vinkovci _ 
TOs,jek
CROA  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTN                                                                               GRO)
1,N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ To Gli                                                                           To Belgrad,1e r
45~,2' "eo                                                        De et;cj9
Adiriatic  Sea                                                             X                      <
tU4° o <> < ;reaireJ0 25  507
a                                               Prniov~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Teii.
D4rcwri~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..... (I    '\-|  
ToKILOMETERS
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA                                                                  __________
'1
;i 1^YCZECHA- POLAND /               30K 50 ^
-  DAYTONAGREEMENTUINE5                                                          <'-        0 ERANi, toFREP' _
-sz  RIVERS                                                              3jWITZ-.-\ AUSTRIA,J HUNGARY/*         I\O V
42°                        o   SELECTED CrnES                               rhi, ^ss zs ;>Sgeed f    v       S>OV-ENI            ROMAN Ai<
(9 NATK)NALCAP4,TAL                           the M    60ers P.ig EMiTX^ of The> FEDLVI REP r
_   -  INTERNATIONAL IBOUNDARIES                    001 a0c0  in          <-1w       TA 4l [S'  ,    /MCNT p? BULGARIA   5o
O*ft  E rh0 t000  .   Bo  9                    N                  40m
Or ofly endbo,err,eni or   Js  Syrenon        '.GREEC  AooE9e/>>
160                                 17P                       fooAb,se1° o,,oce                                                TURKEY
OCTOBER 1997



