                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                     Report No:ICR0000356




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                    (IDA-35310)




                                       ON A

                                      CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.60 MILLION
                        (US$19.80 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO

                           BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

                                      FOR A

               PRIVATIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT




                                   March 21, 2007




Private and Financial Sector Development Unit
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                 (Exchange Rate Effective December 1, 2006)
                         Currency Unit = Konvertible Marka
                               KM 1.00 = US$ 0.67
                              US$ 1.00 = 1.49 KM


                                  Fiscal Year
                          January 01 ­ December 31


                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BiH      Bosnia and Herzegovina
BAC      Business Environment Adjustment Credit
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CPA      Cantonal Privatization Agency
DFID     Department for International Development
DfP      Directorate for Privatization
EBPAC    Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment Credit
EC       European Commission
FBiH     Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
FMS      Financial Management System
FPA      Federation Privatization Agency
FSD      Foundation for Sustainable Development
GTZ      Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
IAGP     International Advisory Group on Privatization
IDA      International Development Agency
ISR      Implementation Status Report
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS      Management and Information System
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDPC     Programmatic Development Policy Credit
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PMR      Project Management Report
PSR      Project Status Report
PTAC     Privatization Technical Assistance Credit
QAG      Quality Assessment Group
RS       Republika Srpska
SOE      State-Owned Enterprise
SAAC     Social Assistance Adjustment Credit
SOTAC    Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit


                        Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
                     Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                       Sector Manager: Gerardo M. Corrochano
                 Project Team Leader: Gerardo M. Corrochano

                                       CONTENTS
A. Basic Information                                                       1
B. Key Dates                                                               1
C. Ratings Summary                                                         1
D. Sector and Theme Codes                                                  2
E. Bank Staff                                                              2
F. Results Framework Analysis                                              3
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs                                  4
H. Restructuring                                                           4
I. Disbursement Graph                                                      6
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design                      7
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes                       10
3. Assessment of Outcomes                                                  13
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                               16
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance                             17
6. Lessons Learned                                                         19
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners    20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing                                       21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component                                              22
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis                                   24
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes     27
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Result                                         29
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results                           30
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR                                         31
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders          41
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents                                      42
MAP                                                                        43

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Privatization Technical
Country:                Bosnia and Herz        Project Name:
                                                                     Assistance Project
Project ID:             P070917                L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-35310
ICR Date:               03/27/2007             ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                    Borrower:             BOSNIA AND
                                                                     HERZEGOVINA
Original Total
                        XDR 15.6M              Disbursed Amount:     XDR 3.1M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Finance of BiH
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process        Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        12/19/2000     Effectiveness:        05/28/2002        05/28/2002
Appraisal:             03/12/2001     Restructuring(s):                       12/21/2004
Approval:              06/26/2001     Mid-term Review:      11/08/2004        11/08/2004
                                      Closing:              08/31/2004        08/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory         Government:           Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:      Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank            Moderately             Overall Borrower
Performance:            Unsatisfactory         Performance:          Unsatisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators             (if any)                  Rating

Potential Problem Project No                     Quality at Entry
                                                                       None
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           Yes                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                 88
General energy sector                                              3
General information and communications sector                      3                   2
General public administration sector                                                  98
General transportation sector                                      3
Solid waste management                                             3


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Legal institutions for a market economy                          Primary          Secondary
Regulation and competition policy                                Primary           Primary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization            Primary            Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu                       Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Orsalia Kalantzopoulos             Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:            Gerardo M. Corrochano              Khaled F. Sherif
Project Team Leader:       Gerardo M. Corrochano              Ulrich Albert Hewer
ICR Team Leader:           Hormoz Aghdaey
ICR Primary Author:        Tarik Sahovic




                                                ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Privatization Technical Assistance Credit (PTAC) is to help
accelerate large scale privatization through the tender sale of state-owned enterprises.
Specifically the project would:

  (a) assist in the tender sale of state-owned enterprises;

  (b)    help prepare the legislative and regulatory frameworks required for divesting
utility and other monopoly companies that deliver public services (such as
communications, water, gas, district heating, waste collection and disposal, railways, etc);

  (c) render holding companies and large enterprises privatizable by "unbundling" them
and performing preparatory steps so that they could attract potential buyers as separate
entities; and

  (d) help bring voucher privatization to a successful conclusion by
  assisting them in setting up a transparent and regulated market place for future
shareholders.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
PDO has not been revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
                                                approval          Target       Completion or
                                               documents)         Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Number of large enterprises sold to strategic investors
Value
quantitative or 0                          45                                5
Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/01/2001                   08/31/2006                        12/15/2006
Comments        Achieved 13 percent. These companies are already showing results in increased
(incl. %        assets, reduced losses, increased revenues or investments. RS
achievement)    Telecommunications is not included.
Indicator 2 :   Number of enterprises unbundled
Value
quantitative or 0                          4                                 3
Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/01/2001                   08/31/2006                        12/15/2006
Comments        Percentage achievement: 75 percent. All actions relating to the unbundling were
(incl. %        completed but the tender sales could not commence until legislation was
achievement)    changed in mid-2006.




                                                iii

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value         Values (from                         Achieved at
                                             approval          Revised         Completion or
                                            documents)      Target Values      Target Years

Indicator 1 :  The project went to Board in 2001. The intermediate indicators were not required
               at that time.
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived              DO                         IP                  Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     12/21/2001          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     06/24/2002          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       0.47
  3     12/18/2002          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       0.95
  4     06/17/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       1.22
  5     12/19/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       1.45
  6     06/15/2004          Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                       2.21
  7     12/21/2004          Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                       2.66
  8     04/21/2005          Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                       3.25
  9     06/27/2006          Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                       3.95



H. Restructuring (if any)

                               ISR Ratings at     Amount

 Restructuring      Board      Restructuring Disbursed at       Reason for Restructuring &
     Date(s)      Approved                     Restructuring
                PDO Change                                           Key Changes Made
                                 DO       IP      in USD
                                                  millions
                                                               The project was not formally
                                                               restructured. As part of the
                                                               mid-term review, the project
                                                               team, together with
   12/21/2004           N         U       U           2.66     governments, tried to refocus
                                                               and realign the Project with the
                                                               existing needs at the time. In
                                                               that respect, technical assistance
                                                               on unbundling, concessions,


                                             iv

                       ISR Ratings at  Amount

Restructuring  Board   Restructuring Disbursed at  Reason for Restructuring &
  Date(s)     Approved               Restructuring
             PDO Change                                 Key Changes Made
                        DO     IP      in USD
                                       millions
                                                  and insolvency, procedures and
                                                  studies was increased to
                                                  accommodate more activities as
                                                  the pipeline of privatization
                                                  cases became more complex
                                                  and required more unbundling
                                                  and liquidation work. For the
                                                  same reason of complexity, the
                                                  number of privatization
                                                  transactions during the life of
                                                  the credit was moderately
                                                  reduced, allowing shifting some
                                                  funds from the component 1 ­
                                                  sale of enterprises
                                                  ("dealmakers") to the
                                                  component 3. Furthermore,
                                                  emphasis on assistance to non-
                                                  core utility industry programs,
                                                  such as railways and gas sector
                                                  (component 2 ­ utility
                                                  privatization) was reduced. It
                                                  was also agreed that no further
                                                  support would be provided for
                                                  the capital markets (component
                                                  4), as support was being
                                                  provided by other donors and
                                                  FBiH decided that it did not
                                                  need support from the PTAC.
                                                  Finally, operational expenses
                                                  were increased to accommodate
                                                  the longer implementation
                                                  period. These costs included
                                                  the government contrib




                                    v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and background, rationale for Bank assistance)
Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) had maintained a relatively stable macroeconomic environment
since the 1996-97 successful stabilization process, but the lack of structural reforms prevented a full
economic recovery. The economy continued to be dominated by state (socially) owned enterprises
and banks preparing for privatization. While many laws and regulations needed for privatizing the
economy had been put in place by 2001, long delays in preparing opening balance sheets, clarifying
ownership questions, and installing necessary logistical privatization infrastructure, as well as
insufficient government commitment, resulted in repeated postponements of the start of large
enterprise privatization. Complex and cumbersome (and decentralized in the case of the
Federation of BiH) privatization schemes, and combining the objective of transferring public assets
into private hands with that of absorbing the citizens' financial claims by Entity governments, were
other factors in explaining the slowness of the process. Moreover, not all laws or regulations were
conducive to quick and effective privatization. The problem of restitution in particular had not
been resolved. Unsatisfactory provisions addressing environmental issues could also be expected
to result in further privatization delays.

Managers and workers had few incentives to preserve capital or to ensure healthy profits. On the
contrary, inefficient enterprises continued to benefit from government subsidies, guarantees and
risky bank credits, thereby preventing new enterprises from entering the market or from expanding.
Efficient enterprises often failed to serve as engines of growth because political parties or public
agencies intervened directly in their business activities. Moreover, the generous financial support
from the international community after the war at times obscured the inefficient use and misuse of
resources. Alarmed by the low contribution of private sector to GDP (estimated at some 35
percent), by decelerating economic growth rates and the possibility of reduced external support
from the international community, the Entity governments became aware of the urgent need to
accelerate privatization. The first stage involved rapid privatization of small and medium
enterprises with a mix of cash and vouchers. The second stage was to focus on the privatization of
large enterprises, holding companies and utilities through tenders. Privatization of small
enterprises, after a sluggish start in 1999, was almost completed. There was no track record for
large enterprise privatizations.

The 2000-2002 CAS recognized that structural reforms in BiH had been slow and emphasized the
need to accelerate privatization and create a business-friendly environment. It concluded that over
the coming years, BiH needed to concentrate on fostering private sector development. The Bank
Group supported this objective with activities and projects aimed at: (i) improving the business
enabling environment, including support to private investors and SMEs; (ii) completing small-scale
privatization; (iii) accelerating large-scale enterprise and bank privatizations; and (iv) reforming the
social protection system and labor market. The Privatization Technical Assistance Credit (PTAC)
directly supported these goals. It built on the Enterprise and Bank Privatization Credit (EBPAC)
(FY99) and was closely coordinated with other major donors (USAID, EC, GTZ, DFID) in the
International Advisory Group for Privatization (IAGP) who were actively supporting privatization
through grant-funded technical assistance.

The Bank, broadly recognized as a leader in structural reforms and privatization policy dialogue,
was at the forefront of supporting BiH's structural reforms, both in public finances and private
sector development and banking. The Bank's involvement was expected to provide urgently


                                                   7

needed funds that were not available in sufficient amounts from other (grant) sources and would
help ensure that impartial and efficient privatization advice was provided on a timely basis. The
PTAC was expected to provide, inter alia: concrete "hands-on" support for BiH's privatization
program and would provide access to international best practices that otherwise might not have
been available for a country as small as BiH.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)



The objective of the PTAC was to help accelerate large scale privatization through the tender sale
of state-owned enterprises. Specifically the project would: (a) assist in the tender sale of state-
owned enterprises; (b) help prepare the legislative and regulatory frameworks required for
divesting utility and other monopoly companies that deliver public services (such as
communications, water, gas, district heating, waste collection and disposal, railways, etc);
(c) render holding companies and large enterprises privatizable by "unbundling" them and
performing preparatory steps so that they could attract potential buyers as separate entities; and
(d) help bring voucher privatization to a successful conclusion by assisting in setting up a
transparent and regulated market place for future shareholders.

The key performance indicators were: (i) sale of 45 enterprises to strategic investors through tender
process; (ii) increased Foreign Direct Investment (FDI); (iii) increased budgetary revenues from the
sale of enterprises; (iv) reduced fiscal burden through eliminating direct and indirect subsidies;
(iv) appropriate legislation, regulatory framework, and implementation procedure in place;
(v) investment bank/company recruited and sale of respective utility company completed or near
completion; (vi) "unbundling" and "spinning-off" of holding companies and large enterprises into
privatizable units completed for four enterprises and their sale through tender done or near
completion; and (vii) voucher privatization completed and supervision capability of the market
established.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

PDO have not been revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the PDO, as
well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the project)

Although the PAD did not specifically identify a primary target group, in line with the PDO, it was
expected to be large enterprises, including utilities, selected to receive TA related to privatization.
The main direct beneficiaries of this assistance were the FBiH Privatization Agency (FPA) and
Republika Srpska (RS) Directorate for Privatization (DfP); the two Entity governments, who
represented the owners of the SOEs, as well as the PIUs.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Tender sale of enterprises - US$10.56 million (of which US$9.77 million IDA).
Under this component, specialized and experienced experts in tender privatization ("dealmakers")
were to be hired to assist the governments in selling SOEs to strategic local and foreign investors.



                                                  8

The two Entity governments, represented by their respective privatization agencies, selected the
number and type of enterprises to be privatized to strategic investors, with the help of the IAGP.
Of these enterprises, 18 large enterprises in the RS and 27 in the FBiH were selected for receiving
privatization support under the Credit. In the RS, this included companies engaged in the
production of agricultural products, machine tools, construction equipment and others. In the
FBiH, it included large enterprises in metal processing, machine building, electro-mechanical
devices, furniture and wood processing, leather, construction materials and services, engineering,
and the country's main steel complex.

Component 2: Utility privatization - US$0.60 million (of which US$0.55 million IDA).
Certain public companies (utilities and other monopolies) were to be privatized under special
programs. This component included advisory services for both (a) further preparatory work
towards the preparation of the divestiture of these companies, and (b) the sale of the companies to
strategic investors. Included in this group of companies were telecommunications, gas, water and
district heating, waste disposal, the national airline, electricity and postal services.

Component 3: Technical assistance with unbundling, concessions and insolvency and
insolvency procedures - US$1.88 million (of which US$1.83 million IDA). The Credit was to
provide support for those enterprises that were not likely to attract strategic investors with a view to
making them "privatizable". This component included advisory services on: (a) unbundling large
enterprises and holding companies, (b) attracting private participation through concessions, and
(c) applying insolvency procedures to insolvent companies.

Component 4: Capital Market Development - US$2.05 million (US$ 1.75 million IDA).
The Credit was to provide advisory services and information systems to assist the Entity
Governments and Securities Commissions in (a) facilitating completion of voucher privatization,
(b) creating regulatory framework and standards for orderly and organized trading, and
(c) strengthening the capital market supervisory capacity in each entity.

Component 5: Institutional support - US$7 million (of which US$5 million IDA). In addition to
advisory services and goods for project administration and implementation, this component
included privatization advisers for the privatization agencies, environmental experts for the tender
bureaus and specialists in setting up the required regulatory frameworks.

Components 1 and 2 were directly related to the main PDO. Component 3 would also directly
contribute to accelerating privatization through the unbundling and sale of individual parts of
companies via tender; facilitating market exit by applying modern bankruptcy procedures, and
fostering greater private sector participation and involvement. In this way, tender sale of large
enterprises was to be accelerated and faster exit for non-performing SOEs facilitated, thus reducing
the overall share of SOEs in the economy. Component 4 was expected to contribute to the
objective by helping to set up regulated and transparent trading places for trading the shares of the
privatized enterprises. Component 5 provided needed assistance to facilitate the smooth
implementation and set up appropriate monitoring and evaluation systems for all of the project
components.

1.6 Revised Components

The original components were not revised.




                                                   9

1.7 Other Significant Changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

Some adjustments were made to the project in late 2004, at the request of Entity governments. This
included a 2-year extension of the Closing Date that reflected the almost two-year delay in project
start up. The extension was agreed in two phases (the first for 4 months and the second for 20
months) and permitted the authorities to develop and commit to a revised implementation plan with
a view to accelerating implementation of the privatization agenda. The changes took into account
the CAS objectives (the CAS for 2004-2007) that was then under preparation (main objective of the
new CAS was to be job creation and growth) and reflected the changing situation in the field. The
totals earmarked for each of the components were changed, so that additional attention would be
paid to the unbundling of enterprises and improving regulations. The Capital Markets component
was also reduced. No changes to the disbursement category allocations were necessary. In line
with the new CAS, the Bank was also discussing a possible policy-based operation (Programmatic
Development Policy Credit - PDPC) that would incorporate conditionality relating to enterprise
privatization and restructuring, and corporate governance. This operation would have provided the
policy linkage needed for the PTAC.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The main lessons learned from previous projects were that success of the privatization program
required: a strong political will; a clear and functioning legal framework and policies in place to
allow for privatization, and the transparency of the process itself. Although the PAD clearly
identified these lessons, it appears that the assessment of these factors and the readiness to proceed
with the project was over-optimistic. The lack of political will and government commitment were
constantly raised as issues during implementation. It also became apparent during implementation
that there were major gaps in the legal and regulatory framework. For example, provisions in the
law on privatization did not foresee unbundling; the regulatory framework and provisions for utility
privatization were not fully in place and the law on privatization agencies limited the autonomy of
the privatization agencies to effectively fulfill their mandate. These deficiencies, combined with a
lack of capacity, emerged as serious problems for the project.

The risks were, in general, adequately identified and the project was rated as high risk. Individual
risk components were clearly rated. However, the level of risks was in some cases under-estimated
and the measures suggested to mitigate these risks were ineffective or not always followed. In
particular the PAD under-estimated the risk of reduced political will and governments'
commitment to tender privatization and to adequately deal with the anticipated social impact; as
well as the resistance of SOE managers and other stakeholders to the program.

Although there was active participation by the Government in the design and preparation of the
project, the international community took the lead in the design of the privatization reforms. Thus,
there was good donor coordination. However, since it was likely that major changes would result
from the general elections planned for mid-2002, it would have been useful to obtain the buy-in to
the project and its objectives of other major stakeholders. There is little record of any participation
by other stakeholders.




                                                   10

The project was narrowly focused and targeted on privatization, but the design was overly
ambitious in terms of outcomes and expected impact. The PAD was misleading in this respect,
particularly regarding preparations for privatization of the different utilities. It might realistically
have been expected that the project could have had some impact on improving the enabling
environment. However, the stated outcome of completing the sale of utilities was beyond the scope
of the project. More flexibility in the design of Component 2 would have been desirable to allow
for selected inclusion of different utilities at the appropriate time. The fragmentation of powers and
authorities (not just between the state and entity governments, but also in respect to the cantonal
and entity privatization agencies in the FBiH) should have been identified as a high risk to the
success of the Project and more effective measures incorporated in the design to mitigate this risk.
The design had unrealistic expectations of how much could be achieved in only three years,
especially in an environment where institutions and implementing capacity were weak. In fact, the
agenda would have been over-ambitious, even in a country without the special nature of the BiH
political landscape.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

The Project was subject to, first, a one-year delay in effectiveness due to BiH's reluctance to ratify
the Credit, and, second, a delay of almost another year because of reluctance by the Entity
Parliaments to approve the project, in part because of objections to financing "foreign consultants
to sell prime assets of BiH". The lack of commitment to privatization within ministries and
government agencies, especially following the 2002 general elections, contributed to the slowness
of implementation. This was compounded by the lack of a coherent government policy on the
speed, target group and modes of privatization. In addition, the different competencies of the
federation and cantonal privatization agencies in FBiH were not clear and the privatization agencies
had insufficient autonomy to implement the privatization agenda without seeking high-level
government approvals before issuing tenders and continuing the process. Progress was also
hampered by weaknesses in the legal/regulatory framework and the institutional capacity to realize
fast large-scale privatizations. Furthermore, in 2003 several donors (DFID, GTZ, EC) stopped
providing assistance, and by 2004 all donor assistance to privatization stopped. At that time, the
donor-assisted programs had been completed with limited success. Donors such as the EC and
DFID decided that the emphasis of their subsequent assistance would shift to other sectors. Lack of
action/commitment by the governments contributed to decision of other donors to pull out. In spite
of the identified issues and slow pace of implementation, the project was not flagged at risk and not
downgraded to unsatisfactory until mid-2004.

In early 2004, consideration was given to canceling the project. However, both the governments
and the Bank were reluctant to take this step as the divestiture of SOEs remained a high priority for
the governments and a cancellation would have been a serious loss of IDA resources for the
country. The mid-term review was delayed until October/November 2004, although an extensive
review took place in mid-2004 because of the approaching Closing Date of the Credit. Originally
expected to be completed by August 2004, as a result of the continuing delays, it was assessed that
a minimum of two additional years would be needed if the project was to meet its development
objectives.

The Bank worked closely with the authorities to agree on an action plan that would address the
issues and speed up implementation. In the first instance, a four month closing date extension was
agreed during which time the government was to provide concrete evidence of its renewed
commitment to accelerate privatization and intention to carry out the project through the adoption


                                                    11

of an agreed action plan. The action plan specified steps to: (i) implement certain legislative
changes allowing for faster and more efficient privatization (such as changes to the Privatization
Law to permit unbundling); (ii) increase the powers of the privatization agencies; (iii) resolve the
issue in the FBiH of which agency had competencies over strategic enterprises; and (iv) speed up
privatization in the RS and appoint a new director of the DfP. As shown in the following table, by
the time of the mid-term review, there had been some improvement in the FBiH in the pace of the
large enterprise tender privatization in 2004, but this was not sustained. In RS, the improvement
coincided with the change in management of the DfP.

              Number of Enterprises Privatized by Open Tender to Strategic Investors
                   2001        2002        2003         2004        2005        2006       Total
    FBiH             2           7           4           10           1           2          26
    RS               1           3           1            3           4           10         22
         Source: RS DfP, FBiH FPA

It was also agreed to refocus the PTAC to the reflect changing situation on the ground by reducing
the emphasis on the use of "dealmakers" and paying more attention on the unbundling of
enterprises, including using bankruptcy mechanisms. In addition, there was to be no further
involvement in the Capital Markets Component because of the lack of interest of the stakeholders
and because some support was being provided by other donors. Importantly, it was also expected
that the PTAC would be linked to a policy-based operation (PDPC). Thus, privatization was
escalated as part of the Bank/Borrower policy dialogue and a further incentive provided in the form
of monetary rewards if the Government moved ahead with this politically sensitive reform agenda.
At that time, the Bank team also recommended that if the proposed PDPC, as projected in the new
CAS, did not go forward, consideration should be given to closing the Credit.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E was carried out as part of normal project supervision. Only two quantified indicators were
identified to monitor progress (the PAD was prepared using the earlier logistical framework,
without baseline and annual targets). Information measuring progress against these indicators was
effectively collected and reported by the two privatization agencies and was closely monitored
during project supervision. The PSR/ISRs reported in detail on progress. Other indicators were
not quantified but progress in meeting them was tracked as part of supervision.

M&E units were set up in both privatization agencies, with support from the project. These
systems are reliable and continue to be used monitor overall progress with the overall privatization
agenda, not only to provide project-related data. Thus, the privatization agencies have in place
effective systems to monitor the progress of the newly privatized enterprises and to continue to
monitor privatization progress.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

No safeguard issues were identified for this project. However, during project preparation, special
attention was paid to assessing the potential social and environmental impact of privatization large
SOEs. The social aspects were beyond the scope of this project and were expected to be addressed
through other Bank-supported operations (such as the Social Assistance Adjustment Credit - SAAC
and the Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit ­ SOTAC). In terms of the environment, the
Bank's program in BiH recognized that privatization should be accompanied by appropriate



                                                12

attention to assessing and correcting ongoing and past environmental problems. The Information
Memoranda produced for tenders under the project contained some environmental information
about the companies. Some progress was also made on environmental audits. No major problems
have been identified in the privatized enterprises in terms of the environment.

There were no special financial management, procurement or disbursement requirements under the
project. Fiduciary compliance was good throughout the project and there were no issues raised
during implementation. No issues were raised in the project audit reports and financial
management reports were produced regularly. In regard to procurement, as the PIUs lacked the in-
house expertise, consultants were hired to provide support in the preparation of documents. No
procurement issues arose during project implementation.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by present
operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity,
and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

There is currently a renewed public impetus for accelerating privatization. Legislative changes
made in 2006 empowered the FPA and DfP to issue tenders without seeking additional
authorization. These two privatization agencies have adequate capacity and know-how to complete
the tenders and will continue to operate in the future. In the RS, in particular, the number of
strategic enterprises privatized in 2006 is more than the total of the previous two years (see Annex
5). The first group of companies in FBiH that were privatized under the PTAC are operating as
private entities; companies from the second group are now being tendered. Furthermore, the
unbundled companies are expected to be candidates for tender privatization in the near future. In
the RS, based on project-funded support, the tender for the telecommunications company and IAT
group of companies have been completed and purchase agreements finalized. However, although
the institutions have been strengthened, much more remains to be done and enterprise restructuring
and corporate governance in BiH remains weak in comparison to neighboring countries. FBIH still
needs to accelerate privatization of remaining SOEs. The need continues for external expertise to
assist in the preparations for privatization, and privatization of large, strategic enterprises.
Attention needs to be paid to ensuring that an appropriate regulatory framework is in place for
oversight of utilities and their subsequent privatization, as well as ensuring that the social concerns
that may have hindered privatization in the past are addressed.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The Project Objective remains highly relevant. The Project Development Objective responded to
the priority of Entity governments to shift attention from the smaller enterprises to the larger ones.
This objective is in line with the current (2004-2007) CAS. It is also expected to be consistent with
the objectives of the new CAS (2008-2011), which is under preparation. In 2001 there were almost
2000 large SOEs in BiH. Since 2001, over 1,400 enterprises have been privatized, mostly by
vouchers. In addition, 336 were expected to be divested through tender privatization. By August
2006, 57 enterprises in the RS and 30 enterprises in the FBiH had been divested through tender
privatization. However, the remaining SOEs include many of the largest and most important, as
well as several loss-making, enterprises. The need to accelerate divestiture of these enterprises
(through privatization or liquidation) is still a high priority for both the central and Entity
governments. Recent experience indicates that there is renewed commitment and increased overall


                                                   13

acceptance of the value of proceeding with competitive and transparent privatization practices.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs Annex 4)

The PDO to accelerate tender-based large enterprise privatization was not met.

Some progress was made with SOE privatizations using the tender procedure (in accordance with
the provisions of the Privatization Law). Prior to 2001, privatization focused more on smaller
enterprises that were privatized through the small privatization and voucher privatization program;
there was no track record for large enterprise privatization. Between 2002 and 2006, 87 large
SOEs (about 26 percent of the total) were privatized. However, only 5 of the planned 45 SOEs (all
in the FBiH) were privatized through the PTAC. No PTAC-financed privatizations were
completed in the RS, although a winning bidder has recently been selected for the
telecommunications company.

In regard to preparing utilities for privatization, some preparatory and diagnostic work was carried
out in both Entities but little progress was made in the selected sectors in terms of legislation or in
improving the regulatory environment, which remains weak. Only in the RS, was legislation
passed to enable telecommunications privatization to proceed. The sale of the telecommunications
company started in mid-2006. This tender (started under the PTAC) was completed in December
2006, with the winning bidder offering significantly over book value. Negotiations are currently
ongoing to finalize the purchase agreement, which would be the largest sale in BiH. Under the
project, achievements in the other sectors were limited.

Although with substantial delays and after the PTAC closed, the unbundling of three enterprises
was completed (2 in FBiH and 1 in RS). All preparatory work for this was carried out under the
project. However, the formal process could not be completed until specific changes to permit this
were incorporated in the Privatization Law. These changes were not introduced until mid-2006,
opening the way for the sale of the unbundled assets. Thus the revenues from these privatizations
have not yet been realized.

Stock markets and Security and Exchange Commissions exist in both entities but little was done
under the project to strengthen the capital markets. The regulatory framework remains weak,
especially in regard to corporate governance. The FBiH did not use any Credit funds for this
component as other donor funding was available. The RS used PTAC funds to strengthen its stock
exchange and Securities Commission.

The project had major shortcomings in meeting most of its objectives. It did, nevertheless, have a
positive institutional development impact. There are now core of experienced and trained people in
both Privatization Agencies and PIUs that can handle complex operations in terms of preparation of
tender documents, financial management and daily project implementation activities. IT systems
provided under the project have contributed to the effective functioning of these Agencies as well
as to improving reporting/information systems for the RS capital market.

The outputs would all have contributed to the successful outcome and to the overall project
development objective. The failure to accelerate the privatization program was the major factor in
not achieving the outcome. However, shortcomings in realizing other outputs compounded the
poor overall performance of the project.



                                                   14

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

It was not appropriate to attempt to perform a cost/benefit analysis (as was presented in the PAD)
for a technical assistance project of this nature. Nonetheless, it is evident that the operation would
be rated poorly in terms of efficiency, if consideration is given to the level of supervision effort, of
time and of money spent. This would, however, not take into account the value of the Bank
maintaining its presence in this sector. Although most of the benefits were not manifested during
implementation, indications are that the overall environment is changing. The advice and example
provided under the PTAC have been important contributors to this apparent change in culture. It is,
nevertheless, too early to judge whether the recent positive movements will continue.

In terms of revenues, these were substantially below the PAD estimates, which anticipated
revenues through tender to amount to about 50 percent of book value. These book values could not
be maintained as most SOEs continued to make losses. To date, total revenues have averaged only
about 10 percent of the book value at the time of privatization, not taking into account undertakings
to make major investments to increase the competitiveness of the newly privatized entities.

FDI has increased (from US$118 million in 2001 to US$298 million in 2005). Although the
increase is not solely attributed to PTAC or enterprise privatization, there was a spike in the FDI to
US$613 million in 2004, reflecting the sale of BH Steel, one of the PTAC enterprises.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: UNSATISFACTORY

Although activities were carried out for each of the five project components, they had varying
degrees of success and most of the indicators (which, as previously discussed, were unrealistic)
were not fully met. The use of the Credit funds was slow and on Credit Closing only 20 percent
(SDR 2.9 million) of the original Credit of SDR 15.6 million was disbursed. The balance of SDR
12.7 million was canceled. Taking into account duration, costs, overall progress in meeting the
PDO and outcome indicators, meeting the overall outcome was unsatisfactory.

In spite of the unsatisfactory rating, the objective and themes of the project were and continue to be
relevant. Deals completed under the project provided positive economic results, and the other
activities, such as capacity building, enabled authorities to continue privatization activities outside
of the project.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

During project preparation, attention was paid to the potential social impact of the privatization of
large SOEs. However, the social impact of the program was under-estimated. Resistance to
privatization, because of the fear of labor redundancies or loss of benefits, transpired to be one of
the key factors attributed to sluggish privatization. Section 7.4 highlights that the resolution of
these issues was beyond the scope of this project. They were expected to be addressed through
other Bank-supported operations (SAAC and SOTAC).



                                                  15

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The skills and experience built up in the Privatization Agencies will be important factors in their
future activities.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
None

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: MODERATE
Address the question: the risk at the time of the ICR that the development outcomes will not be maintained or realized


The Project was designed to foster private sector development in BiH focusing on individual
privatization transactions, a transparent privatization process and institution building. The risk to
development objective is moderate, since significant institutional strengthening still needs to be
made at the central level of administration, as well as at the Entity level, and the degree of
government commitment and ownership, although apparently strengthening in recent months,
cannot be taken for granted. The RS has moved forward with privatizations in the last year and it
plans to continue with divestiture of state-owned assets. In the FBiH, the government commitment
remains to be tested as a new government is currently being formed. In addition, the Project had
some institutional impact and capacity was improved. The institutions and the know-how to
proceed with privatization are in place, provided that there is political will. As privatization
remained the core objective the overall rating is based on the sustainability of that objective.

Important institutional changes (such as further strengthening the privatization agencies to
effectively and efficiently carry out their role) are still needed for open tenders and large-scale
privatization to continue. Technical assistance is need for enterprise privatization, particularly in
the case of utilities and for effective unbundling. Attention should focus on the strengthening of
the regulatory framework to ensure that there is good governance and oversight of the privatized
utilities or monopolies that fall in this category.

In mid-2006, changes were introduced to the Privatization Laws to allow for joint ventures and
direct negotiations as main methods for privatization (together with open tenders). These changes
are a cause for concern as experience shows that such approaches could lead to non-transparent
practices, bring into question the integrity of the process and lead to loss of public support for the
divestiture program.




                                                           16

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: UNSATISFACTORY

Although the PAD is well-written and issues, in general, well described, it under-estimated the
difficulties in implementing such a program in the complex BiH environment. The project design
and outcome indicators were over-optimistic; several output indicators were inappropriate. The
number of SOEs targeted for tendering and the speed with which this could be done were
unrealistic. Also unrealistic was the expectation that privatization preparations could proceed
simultaneously for a large number of utilities in the absence of an effective regulatory framework.

There was no track record of large privatizations and capacity would need to be developed to
implement such a comprehensive and ambitious privatization program. Although project
envisioned capacity building, it failed to fully recognize the importance of the legal framework
(legal and regulatory instruments were not in place to support large scale strategic privatization)
and to fully take into account the weak institutions in BiH. Furthermore, the public was not ready
for large scale privatization and its consequences. Moreover, the social impact was under-
estimated. Other Bank programs were expected to contribute to strengthening the social safety net,
but they would not have an immediate effect.

The nature of the project and the need to systematically develop a track record for privatizations
and to improve the regulatory framework would have made the operation suitable for a phased
approach or a series of operations. This would, however, have had implications for the IDA
allocations and may not have been acceptable due to country considerations. At the very least,
more flexibility should have been incorporated into the design, especially in regard to the content of
the "utility privatization" component. Although both Entities included a large number of utilities
on their list of SOEs for privatization, it was not realistic to expect progress to be made in this area
before the appropriate legal and regulatory framework was in place.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: MODERATELY SATISFACTORY

The project was subject to an intensive and exceptional supervision effort, especially from project
staff located in the field. In particular, a privatization specialist was based in the field for most of
the implementation period. Throughout the implementation period, extensive contacts with the
governments and implementing agencies were maintained. The project encountered
implementation problems from the outset, including an effectiveness delay of one year. From the
early stages of the project supervision, the Bank, faced with the evident decreasing ownership for
the project, tried diligently but unsuccessfully to re-establish the Borrower's commitment.
Supervision missions, including Bank experts and local staff, visited the country several times a
year and the team closely monitored project activities. Comprehensive Project Status
Reports/Implementation Status Reports (PSRs/ISRs) were prepared regularly until mid-2005. A
back-to-office report was issued at end-2005 instead of an ISR. Given all the reported problems
and lack of results, the Bank should have been more proactive and acted faster to address the
problems. The project was, however, never flagged at risk and was not downgraded to


                                                    17

unsatisfactory until mid-2004. It remained in unsatisfactory status until its closure. Financial
management and procurement were handled satisfactorily.

A mid-term review took place only in October/November 2004, as part of an ongoing dialogue to
refocus the Project and extend the Closing Date. As a pre-condition for justifying a two-year
extension of the Closing Date, the governments and government agencies agreed to an action plan
designed to demonstrate their increased commitment and speed up implementation. At the same
time, the Bank team emphasized the importance of the linkage of this project to the planned PDPC
and proposed closing the PTAC if that policy-based operation did not go forward. The Bank's team
at the time provided for realistic and appropriate assessment of the situation, and proposed
alternatives on the project's future that depended on Government's commitment and the overall
situation. While some progress was achieved and disbursements improved for a short time, the
improvement was not sustained. As a result, management decided that there should be no further
extension of the Closing Date.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: MODERATELY UNSATISFACTORY

There were five different task managers for this project, a fact that resulted in some loss of
continuity and consistency in supervision. Shortcomings in project design and delays in
downgrading the operation contributed to the overall performance rating. This was, however,
countered by intensive presence on the ground, good relations with stakeholders and efforts to
refocus a stalled operation.

5.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: UNSATISFACTORY

The Borrower worked closely with the Bank in the preparation phase but was strongly influenced
by the international community (particularly the IAGP) and heavily relied on the Bank for project
preparation. Borrower ownership of the project had diminished by end 2001, when leadership
changed hands following the general elections. Throughout implementation, the project suffered
from the lack of political will and ownership of the project.

The Borrower: (i) did not put in place an adequate legal and regulatory framework in a timely
manner to enable the preparation of privatization programs for utilities or for the unbundling of
enterprises; (ii) introduced cumbersome approval procedures that virtually stopped implementation
of activities under Components 1 and 3, and limited the power of the privatization agencies to carry
out their mandate; and (iii) did not demonstrate coherent and consistent support to large-scale
privatization; and (iv) delayed the provision of counterpart funding for project activities (this was
resolved in late 2004 and since then there were fewer, if any, delays) and was slow in making
payments to high cost consultants. In spite of these shortcomings, the Borrower and the Project
agencies remained in compliance with the legal covenants.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: MODERATELY SATISFACTORY

The performance of privatization agencies and implementation units was moderately satisfactory.
Although the privatization agencies and PIUs performed adequately for the most part, they relied



                                                 18

heavily on the Bank to help push the political agenda forward. They could, in spite of their limited
mandate and capacity, have been more proactive in resolving sensitive questions with government
officials and agencies. The privatization agencies and the PIUs kept good records, monitored
project progress satisfactorily, and handled all procurement and financial management matters
without any major problems. Coordination among the privatization agencies and the PIUs was
good.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: UNSATISFACTORY

The overall Borrower performance was unsatisfactory for the reasons mentioned above, especially
the lack of political will and ownership. These undermined the achievement of the objectives of the
project and reduced the overall effectiveness of the implementing agencies.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

The project design could have been improved by broader discussions with and involvement of key
parliamentary figures, as well as by subsequent systematic communication with parliament at
both state and entity levels, especially in an environment where there were frequent changes in
government composition and reshuffling of officials who participated in the project. This could
facilitate the ratification process, which in BiH in general, is extremely lengthy.

Strong government commitment is essential in carrying out what can be politically sensitive
changes.    Bank teams need to be realistic when assessing government commitment and, if
possible, avoid operations dealing with an excessive number of government agencies.
Furthermore, it is important to incorporate flexibility into the design of the technical assistance
projects so that modifications during implementation can be introduced to address emerging
circumstances and changing priorities.

Technical assistance projects of this kind have a greater chance of success if they complement
policy-based operations and the leverage that these provide. The PTAC's chances of success
would have been strengthened by an ongoing policy dialogue that was linked with a specific
reform agenda and program, and if reform interventions in sensitive areas, such as privatization,
included measures to address the social concerns of the stakeholders to the extent possible.

Legislation central to successful project implementation, particularly in regard to technical
assistance projects where the Bank has limited leverage, should be in place before project
implementation begins. In the PTAC, the lack of legislative framework, particularly for the
unbundling of enterprises, prevented any movement on this component until quite late in the
project life. However, the complexity of the constitutional setup and the sensitivity to reform
make it advisable to consider making the legislative framework a precondition to any future
project.

The presence of the task manager in the field facilitates smooth project implementation. For the
PTAC, this presence contributed to improved coordination and interaction with the
representatives of the Client. It kept the policy dialogue alive, helped keep the privatization
agenda at the forefront of the debate and contributed to the strengthening of the institutions. It
also helped identify problems, although their resolution proved difficult, facilitated project
progress, limited though it was, and laid the groundwork for future cooperation.


                                                  19

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners


    (a) Borrower/implementing agencies


    The following comments were received from the BiH Minister of Finance, in a letter to
    the Country Manager dated March 7, 2007.



Thank you for submitting draft Implementation Completion Report for Credit 3531 BOS ­
Privatization Technical Assistance Project (PTAC).

We find that reasons for poor results in implementation of the project are related to the elements of
the privatization process in BiH, and overly optimistic appraisal of the project at the inception. As
a consequence of insufficient political capacity and institutional strength, extended parliamentary
proceedings in adopting related legislations, as well as procedures of the entity governments,
positive results in projects implementation are seriously undermined. However, positive effects
and experiences from this project will help in designing future projects.

We are sorry because goals of this project didn't materialize, but we are convinced that the World
Bank will continue its assistance in reform process in BiH.

With respect,


                                                                     Ms. Dragan Vrankic
                                                                           Minister



(b) Cofinanciers


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                20

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                     Appraisal                Revised                  Actual/
        Components                    Estimate               Estimate            Latest Estimate         Percentage of

                                     (USD M)                 (USD M)                  (USD M)              Appraisal

1. Sale of Enterprises
("dealmakers")                          10.56                   7.93                      1.83                23%

2. Utility Privatization                 0.60                   0.90                      0.65                72%
3. Technical assistance
on unbundling,
concessions, insolvency,                 1.88                   7.76                      0.24                3%
studies
4. Capital Market
Development                              2.05                   0.40                      0.10                25%

5. Institutional support
Support for regulatory
framework                                1.76                   0.26                      0.00                0%

Institutional support to
PIUs                                     1.40                   2.21                      2.07                94%

Institutional support for
Tender bureaus of the                    0.90                   0.90                      0.29                32%
Privatization Agencies
Institutional support for
Privatization agencies                   2.93                   2.27                      0.67                30%

      Total Baseline Cost               22.09                  22.64                      5.85                26%
Physical Contingencies                   1.20                   0.65                      0.00                0%
Price Contingencies                      0.00                   0.00                      0.00
       Total Project Costs              23.29                  23.29                      5.85                25%
Front-end fee PPF                        0.00                   0.00                      0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                       0.00                   0.00                      0.00
            Total Financing
                   Required             23.29                  23.29                      5.85                25%


Please note that due to conversion and exchange rate fluctuations, it is not possible to reconcile the US$ amounts with the
SDR amount.

(b) Financing


  Source of              Type of        Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate                       Percentage of
    Funds             Cofinancing             (US$ M)                          (US$ M)                    Appraisal
  Borrower                                        3.49                            1.50                       43%
  IDA                                            19.80                            4.35                       22%




                                                          21

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

   Output from each
        component                          Output Indicators             Actual        Rating

  1. Sale of large               Some 45 large enterprises sold to         5*
  enterprises                    strategic investors                                 Unsatisfactory

  2. Divestiture of utility       o Appropriate legislation, regulatory
  companies and other                 framework, and implementation      Partially
  monopolies requiring                procedures in place                 done
  intensive preparatory           o Investment Bank/company                          Moderately

  steps, regulatory                   recruited and sale of respective               Unsatisfactory

  frameworks, and sales               utility company completed or near     1
  arrangements                        completion
  3.Unbundling of large          Four "unbundling" and "spinning off"
  enterprises or holding         holding companies and large
  companies comprising           enterprises into privatizable units        3        Moderately

  many business                  completed and their sale through tender             Satisfactory

  activities                     done or near completion
                                  o Completion of voucher
                                      privatization;                     Not done

  4. Capital Market               o Setting up stock market;              under

  Development                     o Building supervision capability on   PTAC         Not rated
                                      the stock market, and
                                  o Setting up minimum capital
                                      market regulations
*Excludes one utility company from Component 2

Project Component 1 ­ Tender sale of enterprises. The Credit supported privatization of only five
large enterprises, and all of them are in Federation of BiH. The Credit financed:
     · One dealmaker for the sale of four companies ("Bira", "Enker", Metalno", and "Granit")
     · A team of privatization advisers for BH Steel.
     · Three dealmakers for the sale of three companies ("Krivaja", "KTK Visoko", and "IAT
          Trebinje"). These dealmakers first had to complete "unbundling" (Component 3). The
          PTAC had closed before they were able to move to the second phase of their contracts.
     · In RS, preparatory work for the privatization of "Energoinvest" and "Irce" through data
          collection and gathering that served RS Directorate as a basis for preparation of
          privatization plan.
     · A public awareness campaign in RS, to raise awareness for privatization.

Project Component 2 ­ Utility privatization ­ Outputs included:
    · Several seminars in the gas, telecommunications, water, postal services, air transport, and
         railway sectors.
    · Preparation of a BiH State Telecommunications Policy paper; Gas sector study; Air Bosna
         and RS Banja Luka airport diagnostic viability study; Entity railway sector study, and two
         RS Water Supply Diagnostic Studies ­ one for Banja Luka sewer system and one regional
         study on privatization and restructuring of the water sector in the region
    · Dealmaker for the tendering and sale of RS Telecom.

Project Component 3 ­ Technical assistance with unbundling, concessions and insolvency
procedures. Outputs included:
     · Advisory services for the "unbundling" of two enterprises in FBiH ("Krivaja" and "KTK
          Visoko")


                                                         22

    · Advisory services for the "unbundling of one enterprise in RS ("IAT Trebinje").
    · Legal expertise and forensic audits to help resolve ownership issues in "Aluminij" and
         "Agrokomerc" in FBIH, to pave the way for "unbundling" and subsequently sale of
         enterprises.
    · Forensic audit of "FBIH Investment Bank".
    · Preparation of privatization plan for "Agrokomerc". However, company "unbundling" is
         still needed before any privatization can start.
    · Preparation of report on off-balance sheet items for SOEs in FBiH.
    · One study on the bankruptcy process in RS and another on a development strategy for the
         Pension fund's portfolio, aiming at promotion of the privatization process in RS.

Project Component 4 ­ Capital Market Development ­ This component was not implemented,
except as listed below, as support was provided by other donors. Outputs were limited to:
    · Development and supply of hardware and software for the information portal in the RS
         Stock Exchange.
    · IT equipment for the RS Securities and Exchange Commission and Securities Registrar.

Project Component 5 ­ Institutional support and Project Implementation ­
Outputs included:
    · Equipping FPA (and Cantonal agencies) and DfP and PIUs with equipment, software and
         hardware, as well as web page designs.
    · Legal advisors assisting FPA and some cantonal agencies.
    · Procurement advisor and training within PIUs and FPS and DfP (tender bureaus);

Although output indicators show that progress has been made, the overall rating for meeting the
outcome is unsatisfactory, as the primary focus of the project was the tender sale of large
enterprises, where not much was done through the Credit.




                                                23

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

It is not appropriate to perform a cost/benefit analysis for a technical assistance operation of this nature. The
comparison with the original 45 target enterprises to be supported under PTAC is not possible because both
entity governments frequently changed the lists of strategic enterprises to be privatized by tender. In addition,
comparisons based on book value have to be used with caution because: a) assets were originally overstated;
and b) companies accumulated loses over time and reduced book value. In the text below some general
comparisons are made and basic information provided on tender privatization and PTAC supported
privatization.

Costs and benefits of the transactions supported by the Credit

The PAD identified a total of 336 companies to be privatized by tender, out of which 138 were to be done with
the support of IAGP. Out of these 138 companies, PTAC support was intended for 45 companies. In total, 48
enterprises had been privatized throughout BiH by tender (out of 336) by the end of 2006, and PTAC supported
sale of 5 companies in both Entities (RS Telecom not included) out of 45.

The PAD envisioned sales revenues through tender proceeds for 45 enterprises supported under the PTAC to
amount to some 50 percent of book value (or a total of KM 5.6 billion in revenues). In reality, all enterprises
actually sold in tender privatization in BiH, sold for only 9.8 percent in cash revenues with respect to book
value. For PTAC supported enterprises, cash revenues were 10.1 percent of book value.

If cash revenues and investment commitments are taken into account, the situation changes significantly, as
presented in table below.
Tender privatization in BiH (in million KM)
               Large                                                                  Price +
 Entity     enterprises         Book value at        Selling price   Contracted     investments
                sold*            time of sale                        investments       (3 + 4)
    RS            22                  787                  39            107             146
  FBiH            26                  640                  71            524             595
* Source: RS DfP: Large privatizations as of December 6, 2006; FPA: 56 Strategic Firms for Tender Privatization
including BH Steel, excluding utility and veterinary stations in RS.

The above table has one significant outlier: BH Steel (supported under PTAC). This company was sold for 1
KM, but with Mittal Steel agreeing to invest KM 120 million in new share capital, KM 100 million in working
capital and a further KM 200 million on new plant and equipment over ten years. The effects of this investment
are already visible through the increase in sales and assets of the company, as well as in the overall economic
effect this had on the Zenica region. The table above does not include sale of RS Telecom (also supported
under PTAC) that is in process, for an estimated value of KM 1,270 million.

FDI has increased (from KM 236 million in 2001 to KM 450 million in 2005). Although the increase is not
solely attributable to the PTAC or enterprise privatization, there was a spike in the FDI to KM 950 million in
2004, reflecting the sale of BH Steel.

DfP and FPA track the privatized enterprises for three years. The data in the tables to follow show that the
overall effect of privatization is positive. All FBiH-based SoEs privatized with PTAC significantly increased
their export orientation and improved their performance.

PTAC supported privatizations (in million KM)




                                                     24

  Company          Sales         Assets        Profit/loss       Sales      Assets      Profit/loss
                    2002          2002           2002            2005       2005           2005

    Enker             8            21            (0.7)              5        21            0.005
     Bira            20            25            (0.2)             24        37              (4)
   Metalno            7            19            0.003              5        24             0.01
    Granit            5            13             0.5               7        21               1
   BH Steel          122           324           (9.5)            225        450             n/a
Source: FBiH FPA and company statements; excluding RS Telecom

At the same time, companies that were privatized outside of the PTAC are also doing relatively well. In the RS,
six of eight selected large firms increased their sales, and seven improved their profitability over the past two
years (table below).

Other selected large company privatization by tender in RS (in `000 KM)
                                                     Total                                             Total
 Company        Sales    Expenses   Profit/Loss                     Sales   Expenses    Profit/Loss
                2004     2004       2004             Liabilities                                       Liabilities
                                                     2004           2005    2005        2005           2005
 Birac          98,784   102,202    (3,417)          128,513        101,426 134,440     (33,013)       143,061

 Celex          49,800   51,326     (1,525)          26,544         54,863  55,324      (461)          35,574

 Vitaminka      17,554   17,491     63               11,245         22,631  22,466      164            25,302

 Unis           26,370   26,357     12               12,913         36,923  36,907      16             26,624

 Fruktona       7,898    7,782      115              19,439         5,816   5,774       42             19,592
 Govedarska
 Farma          513      1,992      (1,479)          8,431          4,611   4,588       22             11,095

 Livnica        7,085    9,395      (2,309)          11,037         11,175  11,755      (579)          12,860
 Unis       ­
 speciajne      9,622    9,316      305              426            11,947  11,832      115            2,158
 cijevi
Source: RS DfP



Indirect benefits of tender sales

Subsidies
As of July 2006, over 200 large SOEs remained in FBiH and some 300 in RS, many of which are loss-making
and should be liquidated. No information is available on the fiscal cost.

Tax revenues
The data on how much each company pays in taxes was not available for BiH. From some preliminary
information in FBiH revenue generation has been increasing since 2001-2002 after the majority of voucher
privatization was completed and subsequently when large privatizations started. Again this is not directly
related to the PTAC.

Lower unemployment compensation
Set by law, beyond the scope of the project

Improved management skills
Too early to see results of improved management skills

Environmental compliance
Although not directly related to the PTAC, a 2005 Environmental report (Environmental
Implications of Planned Development Policy Lending in BiH ­ A Strategic Environment Assessment), noted that


                                                  25

privatization of some larger companies where environmental problems had been identified included major
capital investments to reduce pollutions from operations. It is also assumed that more efficient production
technologies in privatized companies should have positive results. Even after the closure of the PTAC, the
governments and privatization agencies are likely to retain this requirement in future privatizations.

Intangible benefits of this project were primarily improved institutions, better acceptance of the privatization
agenda and growing public awareness of the importance of transparency.




                                                 26

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


         Names                   Title               Unit    Responsibility/Specialty
Lending

Hewer, Ulrich          Sr. Financial Sect. Sp. ECSPF         TTL
Mu, Yibin             Financial Economist     ECSPF          Economist
                       Sr. Fin. Management
Ting, Siew Chai        Specialist             ECSPS          FMS

Gudmundsdottir, Elly   Legal Counsel          LEGPS          Legal
                       Sr. Disbursement
Formoso, Joseph        Officer                LOAG1          Disbursement

Law, Peter             Sr. Gas Specialist     CINDR          Gas sector

Martin, Felix         Consultant              ECSIE          Energy Economist

Janssens, Lucas        Sr. Procurement
                       Specialist             ECSPS          Procurement

Kerleta, Nikola        Procurement analyst    ECSPS          Procurement

Markandya, Anil        Lead Environmental
                       Specialist             ENV            Environment

Stoyanova, Lada        Sr. Operations Officer ECSPF          Operations
Dimitriyev, R. Steven  Consultant             ECSPF          Privatization
Locksley, Gareth       Sr. Telecom Specialist CITPO          Telecom privatization

Moss, John Oliver      Sr. Procurement
                       specialist             ECSPS          Procurement

Manny F. Santiago      Program Assistant      ECSPF          Program Assistant

Nermina Sljivo         Program Assistant      ECABA          Program assistant

Supervision/ICR

Vladimir G. Kreacic    Lead Technical
                       Specialist             ECSPF          TTL

Slough, R. Martin      Sr. Financ. Specialist  ECSPF         TTL

Gourley, Robert        Lead Technical
                       Specialist             ECSPF          TTL

Genis, Paula           Operations Officer      ECSPF         Operations
Mu, Yibin             Financial Economist     ECSPF          Economist
Peterson, Vicki Diane  Sr Financ. Sector Spec ECSPF          Operations
Haris Mesinovic        E T Consultant         ECSPF          Field officer/ICR
Lewis, Svitlana        ET Consultant           ECSPF         Operations
Sahovic, Tarik         ET Consultant           ECSPF         Field officer/ICR
Manny F. Santiago      Program Assistant      ECSPF          Program Assistant
Hilton, Rochelle       Consultant             ECSPF          ICR
Drees-Gross, Alexandra Operations Officer     ECSPF          Water specialist
Welch, James Richard   Consultant             ECSPF          Privatization/Restruct. Spec
Dimitriyev, R. Steven  Consultant             ECSPF          TTL/Privatization specialist
Louis Stanley Thompson Consultant             DECRG          Railways specialist
Janssens, Lucas        Sr. Procurement Spec. ECSPS           Procurement



                                               27

Kerleta, Nikola        Procurement Specialist ECSPS                 Procurement
Renzoli, Jesus         Procurement Specialist ECSPS                 Procurement

Vani, N. Sanjay        Sr. Financial
                       Management Specialist  ECSPS                 FMS

Christensen, Olav Rex  Sr. Financial
                       Management Specialist  ECSPS                 FMS

Locksley, Gareth       Sr. Telecom Specialist CITPO                 Telecom privatization
Burtin, Yann           Sr. Operations Officer CITPO                 Telecom Privatization
Satola, David          Sr. Counsel           LEGPS                  Legal
Mestnik, Jasna         Finance analyst        LOAG1                 Disbursement



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

             Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands
                                                  No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                         consultant costs)
Lending
                     FY00                                           1                    2.55
                     FY01                                          59                  240.62
                                          Total:                   76                  243.10
Supervision/ICR
                     FY01                                                               31.65
                     FY02                                          34                  329.29
                     FY03                                          33                  321.60
                     FY04                                          27                  198.88
                     FY05                                          41                  166.06
                     FY06                                          28                  108.36
                     FY07                                          11                   25.18
                                          Total:                  174                 1181.80




                                              28

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

Not applicable




                                       29

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

Not applicable




                                  30

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR


BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND TREASURY


                                                                            Sarajevo, January 9th 2007
                                                                                  No. 01-06-70- /07

The World Bank
Resident Mission to BiH
Attn. Mr. Dirk Reinermann, Country Manager
Sarajevo



Subject:        Implementation Completion Report ­ Credit 3531 BOS
                Privatization Technical Assistance Project



Please find attached the Implementation Completion Report for Credit 3531 BOS ­ Privatization
Technical Assistance Project (PTAC)

As the process of privatization is under responsibility of the entities, the materials provided by the
Federation Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Finance of the Republika Srpska, Foundation for
Sustainable Development of FBiH and Development and Employment Foundation of the
Republika Srpska were used in compiling this report.

With respect,


                                                                        Ms. Ljerka Maric
                                                                             Minister


Attachments:




                                               31

                       Implementation Completion Report ­ Credit 3531 BOS
                             (Privatization Technical Assistance Project)

Introduction

Development Credit Agreement No. 3531 BOS (Privatization Technical Assistance Project)
between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association (IDA) was signed
on November 19th 2001. The Project was expected to provide assistance in accelerating large scale
privatization through tender sale of state owned enterprises and through preparation of legislative
and regulatory frameworks required for the sale.

The loan amounted to 15,600,000 SDR. One part of credit proceeds, amounting to SDR 8,800,000,
was passed by BiH onto FBiH, while the other part, amounting to SDR 6,800,000, was transferred
to the Republika Srpska. Two Subsidiary Credit Agreements were concluded with the two entities.
In accordance with the Project Agreements that were concluded between the International
Development Association and FBiH and the International Development Association and the
Republika Srpska, Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska were supposed to implement Part A
and Part D of the Project respectively, in accordance with the Implementation Program.

At the state level, the credit was ratified on May 16th 2002 on the basis of Decision on Ratification
adopted by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina that was in turn based upon previously
obtained consent of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH ("Official Gazette of BiH" No. 10/02).
The World Bank declared the credit effective on May 28th 2002.

Goals
The purpose of the Credit was to provide support to BiH in speeding up the large scale privatization
through tender sale of strategic companies, what was to be implemented through the following
components/activities:

1. Providing support to tender sale of state owned enterprises,
2. Providing support in preparation of legislative and regulatory framework for involvement of
    private sector in public enterprises (e.g. telecommunications, water, gas, district heating, solid
    waste collection and management, railways, etc.),
3. Providing technical assistance in processes of unbundling, giving concessions, etc. of large
    companies with the aim of attracting potential buyers,
4. Providing technical support in completion of voucher privatization by establishing capital
    markets.

The credit was also expected to finance selection and hiring of international and national
privatization experts, what was to be executed by the entity governments.

Conditions under which the privatization went on
The process of privatization of state owned capital during the Project implementation took place in
unfavorable conditions that had affected the overall results of privatization.
The determining factors that have influenced the course and results of privatization were:

a) Investment-unfriendly overall economic and political environment
    Insufficient interest in privatization in BiH, because the investors felt that investing in BiH was
    risky and insecure due to:
    -   Legal insecurity, shown as inexistence or inadequate/incomplete legislative solutions,



                                                 32

        slowness in resolving court disputes, lack of updated land books and slowness in
        implementation of land transactions, undefined labor legislation, lack of harmonization of
        the other legislation with the EU regulations, etc.;
    -   Social tensions and absence of social policy that would resolve social issues of the workers
        that are laid off in the process of privatization;
    -   Disincentive effects of tax and fiscal policy, with significant share of the "grey" economy;
    -   Division of economic space in Bosnia and Herzegovina.

b) Uncompetitive privatization offers
Privatization offers from Bosnia and Herzegovina were, as a rule, lacking in competitiveness
compared to offers made to other transition countries or neighboring countries due to the following
reasons:
        -    War destruction, inexistence of production, loss of traditional markets, lack of
             investments and, related to this, very low level of technical equipment;
        -    Bad economic and financial situation of companies that have accumulated debts to the
             social funds, tax arrears, debts to workers and suppliers;
        -    Surplus workforce resulting with ineffectiveness and increased price of products. This
             is accompanied with rather bad qualification and age structure of the employees;
        -    Bosnia and Herzegovina is a country where the process of transition of ownership
             started after the other countries in Europe or neighboring countries had already largely
             completed their privatization, what, of course, had influence on the amount of interest
             in privatization in Bosnia and Herzegovina.

c) Inappropriate concept of privatization process
It is believed that the privatization concept that was implemented and adjusted during
implementation had significantly influenced the success of privatization.

Through the process of small privatization, the companies were expected to sell out the property
that was not in the function of their core business, or had not been used over a long period of time.
The proceeds from this process were to be used in dealing with excessive workforce and to obtain
some turnover funds and capital for modernization. This has not happened because of insisting on
speedy and massive privatization of the state owned capital.

Massive privatization through the Public Offer of Shares (POS) has indeed sped up the process of
change in ownership; however, except for few examples, its results were poor. The expected post-
privatization restructuring and critical influence of privatization-investment funds has failed.
Insisting on changing the concept and adjusting it to the market (tender sale) was justified, but it
happened at a rather late stage. Many companies that used to have a significant market value and
good potentials to attract strategic investors had already been privatized through the POS.

d) Decentralization and poor coordination of the privatization process
Concept of entity privatization and decentralization of privatization, particularly in the Federation
of BiH (10 cantonal agencies and Agency for Privatization of the Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina) was not the best way to implement a speedy and successful privatization in BiH.
There is no sufficiently clear hierarchy between the Agency and cantonal agencies; therefore, there
is no single policy, criteria, rationale, etc.

e) Inadequate legislative solutions
The partial changes to privatization regulations that were initiated in 2004 were altered during the
parliamentary procedure, so the end result has introduced additional confusion in terms of
responsibilities of the Privatization Agency in the Federation of BiH and possibility of participation


                                                  33

of foreign companies in privatization in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, what was an
additional restriction in implementation of the privatization process.

Some changes to the privatization regulations, initiated by the Agency as early as 2003, and
supported by international community, have not yet been fully implemented. The most important
prerequisites for successful privatization of the remaining state owned capital (organizational and
financial restructuring and tender sale of parts of companies prior to privatization) were adopted
recently in form of amendments to the Privatization Law, at the end of mandate of the current
Parliament of Federation of BiH.

Improvement of the overall climate for privatization and investment and overcoming resistance in
implementation is an important project that requires reforms in several sectors in BiH. Because of
importance of production and privatization for total economic and other courses in Bosnia and
Herzegovina, the international community, lead by the World Bank, has started broad,
simultaneous and multilayered reforms.

The planned reforms in the area of company restructuring, labor market reforms and social sector
financing reforms have the most immediate implications on the privatization and investment
processes in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In a large extent, the above mentioned reforms have not
been implemented in 2005 and 2006. One should expect speedy implementation of reforms during
2007.

Assessment of goals attained and results achieved
The credit was closed on August 31st, 2006. Total sum withdrawn from the credit account was
SDR 3,102,456.65 (19.89%), of which the Federation BiH used SDR 1,911,370.61 (21.72%), and
the Republika Srpska SDR 1,191,086.65 (17.52%).

Being aware of the progress Bosnia and Herzegovina achieves thanks to, among others, the active
role of the World Bank, we must point at the fact that the implementation of the PTAC has not
produced the expected results in achieving the development objectives. We think that this is a
consequence of insufficiently realistic understanding of the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina at
the stage of project designing, as well as the unrealistic expectations of progress in economic and
political field in terms of creating a better environment for the privatization process to go on. The
project design was too optimistic also in terms of improvement of legislative and regulatory
environment.
At the stage of project design, insufficient attention was paid to social aspect; the possible
consequences of privatization were not adequately taken into account.

At the very beginning, the project was faced with implementation problems. Namely, the credit
was signed on November 19th 2001, and ratified at the state level in May 2002. The FBiH
Parliament ratified it in May 2003, partly due to unwillingness on the part of the Parliament to
accept financing of expensive international consultants in the process. The responsible agencies in
privatization process included parliaments and governments of both entities, line ministries,
Agency for Privatization of Federation of BiH, Directorate for Privatization of the Republika
Srpska, Development and Employment Fund of the Republika Srpska, Foundation for Sustainable
Development (ODRAZ), and this has partially resulted with a slow-down in project
implementation.

Furthermore, as a consequence of project implementation over a period that was longer than
originally expected, with extremely slow implementation of the main project components, the
operational expenditures became relatively very high, and their share in the total costs of the


                                                  34

Project increased significantly.         Slow project implementation caused unexpectedly large
commitment fees in 2004 and 2005, without appropriate justification in terms of effects and results.

Unfortunately, some of the key problems in the privatization process on in terms of the general
climate are still there, and this first of all applies to slow progress of reforms, unfavorable business
climate and fragmented economic space in Bosnia and Herzegovina, poor company management
and their inadequate preparation for privatization.

However, besides the described shortcomings, the Project has also had some positive effects in
terms of improvement of institutional capacities for conducting the process. Namely, now we have
experienced and trained staff of the Privatization Agencies and Implementation Units who have
been trained to implement even the most complex operations in this process. The credit proceeds
were used for financing many activities, and an overview of implemented activities, prepared by
the Project Implementation Units, is given here as an attachment to the report.

Lastly, having in mind all the above, there are lessons to be learned from this Project to be used in
preparation of future projects. Considering that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a country with many
particularities in terms of war heritage and asymmetrical and disharmonic legal-regulatory
framework, this primarily applies to the necessity of having more active involvement of local
experts in project design. In addition, if in future a project should come up that can not meet the set
goals, it would be necessary to exercise some increased flexibility in project re-designing, in which
process the comments and suggestions made by local experts must be taken into account when
making decisions.


                                             ATTACHMENT


Activities implemented in the Federation BiH

COMPONENT 1 ­ TENDER PRIVATIZATION OF COMPANIES (sale contractors)
The number of companies to be sold in the tender privatization under the PTAC was relatively low,
considering that the credit had provided support only in privatization of large companies the
Federation of BiH intended to privatize by tenders. In connection with this, a significant influence
of the Project in speeding up privatization and transition of our country, as well as in establishing
market economy was planned, having in mind that it foresaw:

    -    That the new dominant investors would restructure companies, expand production and
         increase exports, open new jobs and employ new workers, as opposed to majority state
         owned companies that will be privatized for vouchers ("certificates"), i.e. into diffused
         ownership, which is not easy to organized and does not typically lead to above described
         restructuring;
    -    The companies selected for tender sale are the ones that have better assets than the average,
         and thus better chances to attract buyers;
    -    The PTAC was expected to provide support to almost 70% of assets of state owned
         enterprises to be privatized with the assistance of international community (IAGP), and
         more than half (58%) of assets that have been designated for tender sale.

Under this project component, the "sale contractors", specialized in tender sale of companies and
experienced in the process, would help the sale of the state owned companies that have not been
selected for privatization to the national and international investors under a special program. The


                                                    35

"sale contractors" shall actively seek and identify investors that will be professionally qualified and
in possession of capital required for modernization of the privatized companies. In the beginning,
the PTAC was expected to provide assistance to the Federation of BiH in sale of 27 large
companies in metal processing, machine production and production of electric and mechanical
equipment, furniture, wood processing, leather processing, construction materials and services,
engineering, as well as the complex of the largest steel mill in the country.


COMPONENT 2 ­ PRIVATIZATION OF PUBLIC, INFRASTRUCTURE COMPANIES
Governments of the two entities have decided to privatize specific public companies (utility
companies and other monopolies) in accordance by special programs. In its initial design, the
project had proposed assistance in financing both (a) further preparatory activities, such as the
appropriate legislative and regulatory framework, in direction of transfer of ownership over such
companies, and (b) actual sale of the companies to strategic investors.

Evaluation: This activity may be evaluated as failed because, for a number of reasons, the
Government of the Federation of BiH has never made a decision to use the proceeds of this credit
and start preparations for privatization in this area.

COMPONENT 3 ­ TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN PROCEDURES OF UNBUNDLING,
CONCESSIONS AND INSOLVENCY STUDIES (consultants)
There are companies that can not attract strategic investors because they include, as holding
companies or large companies, a combination of many various and mutually unconnected business
operations, large debts or are insolvent. Although the PTAC was oriented on sale of companies in
their present form through tenders, the plan was that the Project would also take appropriate steps
towards facilitating privatization of companies through:          (i) unbundling large companies and
holding companies and taking similar preparatory activities to attract potential buyers for so
unbundled entities; (ii) enabling involvement of private sector through concession arrangements;
and (iii) implementing legislation on insolvency and speedy procedures on effected companies.

A. AUDITS
Specific audits have been implemented as a part of the project activities.

B. PRE-PRIVATIZATION ACTIVITIES
At the stage of Project completion, at the occasion of redesigning, some activities were included
that are mostly related to preparation of Privatization Program and Opening Balance in accordance
with the applicable regulations.

C. SUPPORT TO POST-PRIVATIZATION ACTIVITIES
By special decision of the World Bank management, some additional financing of audit costs was
approved in cases of cancelling the unfulfilled purchase and sale contracts as support to the
activities of the cantonal agencies.


COMPONENT 4 ­ CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT (consultants)

Although the primary focus of the project was tender privatization of companies, the project was
also expected to provide assistance to successful completion of voucher privatization by helping
establish a regulated and transparent place of sale for the citizens who become the shareholders.

Evaluation: Activity that was not realized. In spite of intensive contacts with the Securities
Commission in the Federation of BiH, not a single element of this activity was implemented, what
can be partially interpreted as lack of interest in institutions of capital market.


                                                  36

* INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT

Besides the four distinctive components listed above, the Credit was also supposed to help
institutional building and increase administrative capacity to manage the Project in key areas. In
the beginning, some Higher Advisors were suggested for the privatization program in two
privatization agencies, as well as the environment specialists in the Tender Bureaus, supported by
international experts; and experts in regulatory agencies. Later during implementation, the advisors
were given up and activities were taken to hire domestic experts and sector specialists.

Activities implemented in the Republika Srpska

Under this component, the Directorate for Privatization has identified three priority groups ­
companies in need of special privatization programs: First priority group1:
1. MDP IAT Trebinje

             -   IAT Fabrika steznih glava, Nevesinje,
             -   IAT Fabrika masina i odlivaka, Trebinje, (machines and casts factory)
             -   IAT Fabrika specijalnih alata, Trebinje, (special tools factory)
             -   IAT Fabrika alata sa tvrdim metalom, Trebinje, (hard metal tools factory)
             -   IAT Fabrika alata za navoj, Trebinje (threading tools factory)
             -   IAT Fabrika alata za busenje, Trebinje (drilling tools factory)

2. "Unis" tvornica kotrljajuih lezajeva, Sokolac (ball bearing factory)
3. "Unis" ZDP Valjaonica hladno valjane trake, Banja Luka (cold-rolled band factory)
4. "Energoinvest" rasklopna oprema, Srpsko Sarajevo,
5. "Energoinvest" Trudbenik, Doboj,
6.   MDP "Famos" Lukavica, Srpska Ilidza.

II priority group:

7. "Telekom Srpske", Banja Luka, (Telecom)
8. "Srpske poste," Banja Luka, (Serbian Post)
9. "Gas promet", Srpsko Sarajevo (gas trade)
10. "ODP "Aerodromi Republike Srpske", Banja Luka, (airports)
11. JOP Zeljeznica, Doboj (Railways)
12. ODP "Luka", Samac (River Port).

III priority group:
13. ODP Lignite mine, Stanari Doboj,
14. ODP Brown coal mine, Miljevina Srbinje,
15. "Energoinvest" SASE, Srebrenica,
16. "Energoinvest" bauxite, Srebrenica,
17. PS RMK RZR Ljubija, Prijedor.


1In accordance with the agreement between the GTZ and the World Bank, special program for the company
"Trudbenik" from Doboj shall be made by the GTZ on grant basis.




                                                 37

Implemented activities are shown bellow:
1. Training in the World Bank procedures
2. Tools industry Trebinje
   The consultant has produced the following reports:

            o    Diagnostic report for all companies from the group G1(MDP IAT Trebinje,
                Fabrika steznih glava Nevesinje, Fabrika masina i odlivaka Trebinje, Fabrika
                specijalnih alata Trebinje, Fabrika alata sa tvrdim metalom Trebinje, Fabrika alata
                za navoj Trebinje, Fabrika alata za busenje Trebinje i UNIS Tvornica kotrljajuih
                lezajeva Sokolac),
            o    Market assessment for all companies in the IAT,
            o    Evaluation of capital.

According to the reports submitted and approved, USD 213.250 was paid to the RIAG by
December 31st 2004.     On March 21st 2006, the Government of the Republika Srpska accepted a
Report on Activities Concerning Organization of Companies from the old business system IA
Trebinje into one form provided by the Law. The Government of the Republika Srpska adopted a
decision on approving the required privatization program for privatization of the state owned
capital in companies of business system Industrija alata (Tools Industry) from Trebinje ("Official
Gazette of Republika Srpska" No 30, dated April 05, 2006).

3. Legislative and regulative framework for involvement of private sector in water supply and
   utility companies ­ pilot project Water Supply Banja Luka

   In addition to the final report, the consultant has organized a presentation for the stakeholders
   (Ministry of Agriculture, Vodovod Banja Luka, Municipality Banja Luka, Directorate for
   Privatization and Development and Employment Fund) of the proposed solutions in terms of
   the form of involvement of private sector in water supply. The proposed solutions were sent
   for insight and use to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Resources, Municipality
   of Banja Luka and to the company Vodovod Banja Luka.

4. Public information campaign
   The consultant came up with a number of proposals how to improve the public relations,
   primarily in the Directorate for Privatization, in terms of necessary introduction of press
   conferences where the general public could get informed about the activities of the Directorate
   for Privatization of State Owned Capital. The proposal was made to introduce the same
   practice in the work of the Government of the Republika Srpska and all other participants in the
   process, such as the Banja Luka Stock Exchange, Securities Commission, Central Registry, etc.

5. G3 Mines:
            -       Lignite mine Stanari, Doboj;
            -       Brown coal mine, Miljevina, Srbinje,
            -       Lead and zinc mine SASE, Srebrenica,
            -       Bauxite mine, Srebrenica,
            -       Iron mine Ljubija, Prijedor

   Procedure for selection of consultants was conducted in accordance with the World Bank
   regulations, but the winning company, N masl from Spain decided to withdraw. All further
   activities on this project were stopped. The iron ore mine Ljubija has made individual Contract


                                                38

    with Indian-British company LNM on establishing a new company as a joint venture, thus
    changing the conditions for submitting bids, both technical and financial, for continued work
    on this project or for renewal of the process. The remaining mines from this group have been
    dealt with on individual basis within the Directorate for Privatization.

6. Telecom of the Republika Srpska
    Upon having implemented procedure as prescribed in the World Bank rulebooks, a selection
    was made of privatization advisor for privatization of the Telecom of the Republika Srpska.
    The selected privatization advisor, the Raiffeisen Invesment AD Vienna has started the
    activities under the Contract which was signed on January 1, 2006. Financial advisor has
    submitted all prescribed reports. On August 4, 2006, the Direction for Privatization issued
    public invitation for participation on international tender for the purpose of selling the state
    owned capital in the Telecom Srpske a.d. Banja Luka. The bid opening was held on November
    20th, 2006.

7. Strategic study for supporting privatization of the Airport Banja Luka
    After having conducted the necessary research, analysis and other methods, the consultant
    provided in their final report their vision of development of the Airport Banja Luka. This
    document was submitted to the Ministry of Transport and Communications that had been
    actively involved in developing this project for the purpose of using it in planning their future
    activities.

8. Experiences and results in privatization and restructuring of water supply companies in Central,
Eastern and Southeastern Europe.

    The purpose of this Project was to provide assistance in finding the best model for involvement
    of private sector in water supply programs on the basis of proposal made by the consultant
    Stone & Webster, as well as the best way of organizing companies in the area of water supply.

9. Designing and making software application for the information portal for the capital market in
Republika Srpska

    In accordance with a decision made by the RS Government, the Development and Employment
    Fund had hired a consultant to develop a single information system for the Banja Luka stock
    exchange, the Securities Commission and the Central Registry for the purpose of providing
    complete information to the listed companies.

10. Project "Reorganization through liquidation and/or reorganization through bankruptcy"
    The purpose of this project was to provide an analysis and present opportunities to reorganize
    state owned companies through use of the Law on Bankruptcy, with the explanation of the
    work procedures in the liquidation process, work of the receiver and court procedures.

11. Project "Portfolio Development Strategy for the Pension and Disability Fund of the Republika
Srpska, with the goal of promoting the privatization process in the RS"

   The purpose of this project was to provide an analysis of situation and evaluation of portfolio of
   the PIO Fund, its organizational structure, and influence of the Fund on privatization process in
   the Republika Srpska. The Consultant provided a comprehensive analysis of the situation in the
   PIO RS and it offered a number of suggestions as to how to improve organization and work of
   the PIO Fund.      The final document was submitted to the Ministry of Finances and the
   Directorate for Privatization for overview and use.


                                                39

12. Procurement of computer equipment for the Directorate for Privatization

13. Developing information data base for privatization of the "Energoinvest rasklopna oprema" and
the RICE inc. Eastern Sarajevo

    The consultant provided a comprehensive overview of the company, from its establishment to
    this date, including a description of the company's range of products and services (an overview
    of market, buyers, suppliers, accounting statements of the company). The final document was
    submitted to the Directorate for Privatization to serve as a basis for developing a special
    privatization program for the Energoinvest.

14. Procurement of equipment for capital market, Banja Luka stock exchange, Securities
Commission and the Central Registry.

15. Procurement of software for office operations in the Development and Employment Fund of
the RS

16. Procurement of servers for the Development and Employment Fund

17. Procurement of computer equipment for the RS Privatization Directorate




                                                40

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    41

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
Project Documents: PCN Review Meeting Minutes, Project Appraisal Document, Credit
Agreements, Project Agreements.
Mission documents: Aide Memoire September 2000, Back-to-Office-Reports March 2001,
December 2001, January 2002, April 2002, June 2002, December 2002, May 2003, December
2003, June 2004, December 2004, December 2005; Project Status Reports/ISR June 2004,
December 2004, June 2006; PTAC ICR Mission Aide Memoire December 2006; Project
Implementation Units Progress and Financial reports 2002 ­ 2006, Project extension packages
July 2004 and November 2004, WB Environmental report - Environmental Implications of
Planned Development Policy Lending in BiH ­ A Strategic Environment Assessment ­ 2005;
Other documents: BiH CAS FY00-2002, BiH CAS FY05-2007; IRIS e-mail archive of project
correspondence 2002 ­ 2006; Country Economic Memorandum May 2005.




                                             42

MAP




       43

