Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3531 BOS
Project Agreement
(Privatization Technical Assistance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
Dated October 19, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3531 BOS
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of October 19, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (the 
Federation).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
fifteen million, six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights                                 
(SDR 15,600,000) (the Credit), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Federation agrees to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary credit agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and the Federation (the Federation Subsidiary Credit Agreement), the Borrower will 
make available to the Federation a portion of the proceeds of the Credit provided for 
under the Development Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Federation, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part A of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Federation declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall, carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for said Part A of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and the Federation shall otherwise agree, the Federation 
shall carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for Part A of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) The Federation shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of Part A of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Federation shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and the Federation, a plan for the 
future operation of Part A of the Project; 
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Federation on said plan; and
(iii)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency 
and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account 
the Association’s comment thereon.
Section 2.04. The Federation shall exercise its rights under the Federation 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Federation and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Federation Subsidiary Credit Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) The Federation shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part A of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Federation Subsidiary Credit Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of 
the Credit.
(b) 
The Federation shall promptly inform the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the Federation of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Federation Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Federation shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in a format 
Page  3
acceptable to the Association adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures in connection with the carrying out of Part A of the Project.
(b)
The Federation shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
as the Association may from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Federation shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 3.01 in order to enable the Federation, not later than 
February 15, 2002, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the  
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for Part A 
of the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the period 
covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under Part A of the Project 
and expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Federation shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable 
to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45 days) 
after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
the Federation thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
Page  4
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify the Federation of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina:
Federation Ministry of Finance
Mehmeda Spahe 5
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Facsimile:
387 33 203 152
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the 
Federation, or by the Federation on behalf of the Borrower under the Development 
Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by its Minister of Finance or such other 
person or persons as the Federation shall designate in writing, and the Federation 
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Joseph Ingram
Authorized Representative
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Page  5
By /s/ Karlo Filipovic
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
1.
The Federation shall carry out Part A of the Project through the FPA and with 
the assistance of the Federation PIU in accordance with the Operational Manual and 
satisfactory to the Association.
2.
The Federation shall during the execution of Part A of the Project, ensure the 
maintenance of the Federation PIU with such staff and resources as shall be required 
for the Federation PIU to perform its procurement, financial management and accounting 
duties related to the implementation of the Project, in accordance with the 
Operational Manual and satisfactory to the Association.
3.
The Federation shall maintain the Operational Manual until the completion of the 
Project and, unless the Association may otherwise agree, not amend, repeal or waive 
the Operational Manual or any provision thereof.
4.
The Federation shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators agreed upon between the 
Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of Part A of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, by November 30, 2002, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part A of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended 
to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part A of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by February 28, 2002, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of Part A of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s 
views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Page  6
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $195,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $190,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract procured under Part B of this Section I and 
the first two contracts procured under Part C.1. and C.2. of this Section I, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to contracts procured under Part C.1 and C.2 of this Section 
I, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract 
under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Page  7
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for financial audits estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval in accordance with paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
Page  8
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
