Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3531 BOS
Development Credit Agreement
(Privatization Technical Assistance Project)
between
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 19, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3531 BOS
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 19, 2001, between BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Federation of Bosnia and 
Herzegovina (the Federation) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as a part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Federation a part of the proceeds 
of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
(C)
Part B of the Project will be carried out by Republika Srpska with the 
Borrower’s assistance, and as a part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to Republika Srpska a part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this 
Agreement.
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreements of even date herewith between the Association 
and the Federation  and the Association and Republika Srpska;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) to this Agreement (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Directorate for Privatization" or "DfP" means the Directorate for 
Privatization of Republika Srpska (hereinafter defined) established on November 28, 
1998, through Government Decision  No. 02/1020-1954/98;
(b)
"Eligible Categories" means, in respect of the Federation Special Account 
for Part A of the Project, Categories A(1) through A(3) set forth in the table in Part 
A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and in respect of the Republika Srpska Special 
Account for Part B of the Project, Categories B(1) through B(3) set forth in said 
table;
(c)
"Eligible Expenditures" means, in respect of the Federation Special 
Account for Part A of the Project, the expenditures for goods, services and 
incremental operating costs referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to said Special 
Account’s respective Eligible Categories; and in respect of the Republika Srpska 
Special Account for Part B of the Project, the expenditures for goods, services and 
incremental operating costs referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to said Special 
Account’s respective Eligible Categories;
(d)
"Entity" means either the Federation (hereinafter defined) or Republika 
Srpska as the case may be, and "Entities" means the Federation and Republika Srpska, 
collectively;
(e)
"Euro" and "EUR" each mean the lawful currency of the member states of 
the European Union that adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty 
Establishing the European Community, as amended by the Treaty of European Union;
(f)
"Federation" means the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a political 
subdivision of the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereto;
(g)
"Federation Privatization Agency" or "FPA" means the Privatization Agency 
of the Federation established through the Law on agency for Privatization, No. 
US-01-500/96, dated September 19, 1996;
(h)
"Federation Project Agreement" means the agreement between the 
Association and the Federation of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Federation Project Agreement;
(i)
"Federation Subsidiary Credit Agreement" means the agreement to be 
Page  3
entered into between the Borrower and the Federation pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules to the Federation Subsidiary Credit Agreement, and "Federation 
Subsidiary Credit" means the credit provided under the Federation Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement;
(j)
 "Federation PIU"  means the Project implementation unit, a legal entity 
established through Government Decree 14/1996, dated August 16, 1996, which will 
become a division of the Foundation for Sustainable Development, a legal entity to be 
established as referred to in paragraph 3(c) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and such 
term includes any successor or successors thereto satisfactory to the Association;
(k)
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement and paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreements, to be adopted by 
the Federation and Republika Srpska setting out the operational and administrative 
procedures for the implementation of the Project satisfactory to the Association;
(l)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 3.02 (a) of the Federation Project Agreement and Republika Srpska Project 
Agreement, respectively;
(m)
"Republika Srpska PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established 
within the Development and Employment Foundation of Republika Srpska established 
through Government Decision No. 02/1-020-861/00, dated September 5, 2000;
(n)
"Republika Srpska Project Agreement" means the agreement between the 
Association and Republika Srpska of even date herewith, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to 
the Republika Srpska Project Agreement;
(o)
"Republika Srpska Subsidiary Credit Agreement" means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and Republika Srpska pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules to the Republika Srpska Subsidiary Credit Agreement and "RS Subsidiary 
Credit" means the credit provided under the RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement;
(p)
"Republika Srpska" means Republika Srpska, a political subdivision of the 
Borrower, and such term includes any successor or successors thereto; and
(q)
"Subsidiary Credit Agreement" means either agreement entered or to be 
entered into between the Borrower and each Entity pursuant to Section 3.01(b) or (c) 
of this Agreement, as the same agreement may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules, supplemental to each Subsidiary Credit Agreement:  
"Subsidiary Credit Agreements" means said agreements, collectively; and "Subsidiary 
Credit" means a credit to be made out of the proceeds of the Credit provided to each 
Entity under a Subsidiary Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to fifteen million, six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
15,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, services and incremental operational costs required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 2004, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i)  from the date sixty (60) days 
Page  4
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 15 and July 15 commencing on July 15, 2011, and ending on January 15, 
2036.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2021, 
shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Association shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not charge the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08.  Euro is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause the Federation and Republika Srpska to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Federation Project Agreement and Republika 
Srpska Project Agreement all the obligations of the Federation and Republika Srpska, 
Page  5
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable the Federation and Republika Srpska to perform such obligations, and shall 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
For the purposes of Part A of the Project the Borrower shall enter into a 
subsidiary credit agreement with the Federation (Federation Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement) under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, such terms and 
conditions shall include the following:
(i)
the Borrower shall relend to the Federation an amount in Euros 
equivalent to the amount of the Credit allocated from time to time 
to Categories A(1) through A(4) set forth in the table in 
paragraph A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(ii)
the term of the Federation Subsidiary Credit shall be 35 years, 
including a 10-year grace period;
(iii)
the Borrower shall charge the Federation a commitment charge at a 
rate equal to the rate payable under Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement, on the principal amount of the Federation Subsidiary 
Credit not withdrawn from time to time;
(iv)
the Borrower shall charge the Federation a service charge on the 
principal amount of the Federation Subsidiary Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate payable 
under Section 2.05 of this Agreement;
(v)
the principal amount of the Federation Subsidiary Credit shall be 
repayable in Euros and shall be the equivalent in Euros 
(determined as of the date or respective dates of repayment) of 
the value of currency or currencies withdrawn from the Credit 
Account on account of expenditures for Part A of the Project; and
(vi)
the Borrower shall have the right to require modification in the 
repayment terms of the Federation Subsidiary Credit in conformity 
with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of this Agreement. 
(c)
For the purposes of Part B of the Project the Borrower shall enter into a 
subsidiary credit agreement with Republika Srpska (Republika Srpska Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement) under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, such terms and 
conditions shall include the following:
(i)
the Borrower shall relend to Republika Srpska an amount in Euros 
equivalent to the amount of the Credit allocated from time to time 
to Categories B(1) through B(4) set forth in the table in 
paragraph A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(ii)
the term of the Republika Srpska Subsidiary Credit shall be 35 
years, including a 10-year grace period;
(iii)
the Borrower shall charge Republika Srpska a commitment charge at 
a rate equal to the rate payable under Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement, on the principal amount of the Republika Srpska 
Subsidiary Credit not withdrawn from time to time;
(iv) the Borrower shall charge Republika Srpska a service charge on the 
principal amount of the Republika Srpska Subsidiary Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the 
rate payable under Section 2.05 of this Agreement;
(v)
the principal amount of the subsidiary credit shall be repayable 
in Euros and shall be the equivalent in Euros (determined as of 
the date or respective dates of repayment) of the value of 
currency or currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account on 
account of expenditures for Part B of the Project; and
(vi)
the Borrower shall have the right to require modification in the 
repayment terms of the subsidiary credit in conformity with the 
Page  6
provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Federation Subsidiary 
Credit Agreement and Republika Srpska Subsidiary Credit Agreement in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Federation Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement or Republika Srpska Subsidiary Credit Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and services required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the 
Federation Project Agreement and procurement of the goods and services required for 
Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Republika Srpska Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the 
Project shall be carried out by the Federation pursuant to Section 2.03(a) of the 
Federation Project Agreement and in respect of Part B of the Project shall be carried 
out by Republika Srpska pursuant to Section 2.03(a) of the Republika Srpska Project 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements 
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section including those for the Special Accounts for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
Page  7
following additional event is specified:
(a)
either Entity shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
its respective Project Agreement or Subsidiary Credit Agreement; and
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that either Entity shall be able to perform its obligations under its respective 
Project Agreement or Subsidiary Credit Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the events specified in Section 
5.01 (a) and (b) of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
a  Project Agreement has been executed on behalf of  the Association and 
an Entity on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
for the Entity referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 6.01:
(i)
Operational Manual has been adopted satisfactory to the 
Association;
(ii)
a Subsidiary Credit Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
the Borrower and said Entity on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association; and
(iii)
auditor referred to in Section 3.01(b) of the Project Agreement 
has been appointed.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Entity concerned, and is legally binding upon the said Entity in accordance with its 
terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Credit Agreement referred to in Section 6.01 (b) (ii) 
has been duly authorized or ratified by and is legally binding upon the Borrower and 
said Entity in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the 
Minister of Treasury of Institutions of the Borrower are severally designated as 
representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  8
Ministry of Treasury of Institutions
Crg BiH 1
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Facsimile:   
387 33 471822
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or     
1 (202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina as of the day and year first above written.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ Azra Hadziahmetovic
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Joseph Ingram
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.  
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
  Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
 (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
A.
Part A of the Project 
(the Federation)
(1)
Goods
    270,000
 
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 
80% of local 
expenditures
procured locally
(2)
Consultants’
  7,570,000
90% 
services
(3)
Incremental operating
    570,000
90% of expenditures 
costs
incurred through 
Page  9
December 31, 2002 and 60% of 
expenditures incurred thereafter
(4)
Unallocated
    390,000
SUBTOTAL
8,800,000
B.
Part B of the Project 
(Republika Srpska)
(1)
Goods
    270,000
 
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 
80% of local
expenditures
procured locally
(2)
Consultants’
  5,650,000
90%
services
(3)
Incremental operating
    570,000
90% of expenditures 
costs
incurred through 
December 31, 2002 
and 60% of 
expenditures incurred
thereafter
(4)
Unallocated
    310,000
  SUBTOTAL
6,800,000
TOTAL
15,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country 
from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such 
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures";
(c)
the term "incremental operation costs" means  salaries (except salaries 
of civil servants) for the Federation PIU, FPA, Republika Srpska PIU and DfP, travel 
costs, office rent, audits, office and vehicle maintenance, utilities, office supplies 
and advertising costs.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 100,000, may be made in respect of Category A(2) and in an aggregate 
amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 100,000, may be made in respect of Category 
B (2) set forth in the table in paragraph A.1 of this Schedule on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after July 1, 2001; (b) under the 
Categories allocated to Part A or Part B of the Project unless: (i) a Project 
Agreement between the Association and the Entity responsible for implementing Part A 
or Part B of the Project, as the case may be, has been executed; (ii) a Subsidiary 
Credit Agreement between the Borrower and such Entity has been executed with terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association; (iii) the respective Operational Manual 
has been adopted satisfactory to the Association; (iv) the auditor referred to in 
Section 3.01(b) of the Project Agreements has been appointed; and (v) an opinion has 
been furnished to the Association stating that such Project Agreement and Subsidiary 
Credit Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by the parties thereto and is 
legally binding upon them in accordance with its terms; and (c) under the Categories 
allocated to Part A of the Project unless the Foundation for Sustainable Development 
has been legally established and provided with staff satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) contracts for consulting firms costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each; (ii) contracts for individual consultants costing  
Page  10
less than $50,000 equivalent each; (iii) contracts for goods costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; and (iv) incremental operating costs; all under such terms 
and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Accounts
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Euros two special deposit accounts, 
namely the Federation Special Account and the Republika Srpska Special Account, in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Accounts have been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of the Federation Project Agreement 
and the Republika Srpska Project Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 3.02 (b) of the Federation Project Agreement and Republika Srpska Project 
Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of 
Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with 
the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of each Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of each Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 3.02 
of the Project Agreements;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 3.01(b)(ii) of the Project Agreements, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for any Special Account, or 
(B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into any 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into said Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
 (b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
any Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
Page  11
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraphs (a), (b) or 
(c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i)  in respect of the Federation 
Special Account for Part A of the Project, an amount equal to EUR 1,200,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to 
EUR 500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account of 
amounts allocated to said Special Account’s Eligible Categories, plus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall be equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 
1,000,000; and (ii) in respect of the Republika Srpska Special Account for Part B of 
the Project, an amount equal to EUR 900,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; 
provided, however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the said 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to EUR 350,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts allocated to said 
Special Account’s Eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions, shall be equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 700,000.
2.
Withdrawals of said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into said 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed said 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into said Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into said Special Account at such intervals as 
the Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments 
in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into said Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
said Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into said Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or 
more of said Special Account’s  Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into said Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the 
Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in said Special Account as 
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Page  12
Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
respective Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. Each such deposit into a Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the said Special Account’s 
Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into a 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in said Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of EUR 2,400,000 in respect of the Federation 
Special Account for Part A of the Project and EUR 1,800,000 in respect of Republika 
Srpska Special Account for Part B of the Project.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to accelerate large scale 
privatization through the tender sale of strategic enterprises.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
The Federation
1.
Tender sale of state owned enterprises
Provision of services to assist with the tender sale of state owned enterprises, 
other than enterprises undergoing special privatization programs, to strategic local 
and foreign investors. 
2.
Supporting the privatization of state owned enterprises undergoing special 
privatization programs
a.
Provision of services to support the development of a business 
environment enabling the privatization of state owned enterprises undergoing special 
privatization programs, including review and revision of the relevant legislation and 
regulatory framework. 
b.
Provision of services to assist with the sale of state owned enterprises 
undergoing special privatization programs.
3.
Supporting measures to enable privatization of state owned enterprises
a.
Provision of services to support the unbundling of assets of diversified 
holding companies.
b.
Provision of services to enable the participation of the private sector 
through concession agreements.
c.
Provision of services to assist with the review and implementation of  
insolvency legislation and to assess the effectiveness of relevant institutional 
framework.
Page  13
d.
Provision of services to support effective restructuring of enterprises 
following their sale to private entities.
4.
Capital market Development
a.
Provision of goods and services to facilitate the completion of voucher 
privatization.
b.
Provision of goods and services to enhance supervision and enforcement 
capacity, regulatory framework, standards and rules related to capital market 
development.
5.
Institutional Support and Project implementation
Provision of goods, services and incremental operating costs to the FPA and the 
Federation PIU in the course of Project implementation and for the purposes of audits. 
Part B:
Republika Srpska.
1.
Tender sale of state owned enterprises
Provision of services to assist with the tender sale of state owned enterprises, 
other than enterprises undergoing special privatization programs, to strategic local 
and foreign investors. 
2.
Supporting the privatization of state owned enterprises undergoing special 
privatization programs
a.
Provision of services to support the development of a business 
environment enabling the privatization of state owned enterprises undergoing special 
privatization programs, including review and revision of the relevant legislation and 
regulatory framework. 
b.
Provision of services to assist with the sale of state owned enterprises 
undergoing special privatization programs.
3.
Supporting measures to enable privatization of state owned enterprises
a.
Provision of services to support the unbundling of assets of diversified 
holding companies.
b.
Provision of services to enable the participation of the private sector 
through concession agreements.
c.
Provision of services to assist with the review and implementation of  
insolvency legislation and to assess the effectiveness of relevant institutional 
framework.
d.
Provision of services to support effective restructuring of enterprises 
following their sale to private entities.
4.
Capital Market Development
a.
Provision of goods and services to facilitate the completion of voucher 
privatization.
b.
Provision of goods and services to enhance supervision and enforcement 
capacity, regulatory framework, standards and rules related to capital market 
development.
5.
Institutional Support and Project implementation
Provision of goods and services, and incremental operating costs to the DfP and 
the Republika Srpska PIU and in the course of Project implementation and for purposes 
of audits.
***
The Project is expected to be completed by February 28, 2004. 
Page  14
