Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23489
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION KELI'UK
(CPL-35440; COFN-03220; TF-20339; IDA-24490; TF-28633)
ONA
IBRD LOAN/IDA CREDIT/GEF GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 75 MILLION, $115 MILLION and $26 MILLION, RESPECTIVELY
TO
MDIA
FOR THE
RENEWABLE RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 21, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 1992)
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs.)
Rs.1,000,000 = US$ 38,462
US$ 1.00 = Rs. 26
Exchange Rate Effective December 2000
Rs. 1,000,000 = US$ 22,222
US$ 1.00 =Rs. 45
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIEC        Average Incremental Energy Cost                LCB                Local Competitive Bidding
BDA         Business Development Associates                LIB                Limited International Bidding
CUF         Capacity Utilization Factor                     LRMC              Long Run Marginal Cost
DANIDA      Danish International Development Agency         MNES              Ministry of Nonconventional Energy
Sources
DEA         Department of Economic Affairs                  MW                Megawatt
DFL          Dutch Guilders                                 MWp               Megawatt Peak
EIRR        Economic Internal Rate of Return                NABARD            National Bank for Agriculture and
Rural Development
ESMAP        Energy Sector Management Assistance Program    NCB               National Competitive Bidding
FIRR        Financial Internal Rate of Return               NGO               Non-governmental organization
FY          Fiscal Year                                     NPA               Non-Performing Assets
GEF         Global Environment Facility                     NPV               Net Present Value
GOI         Government of India                             OPS               Operational Policy Statement
GON         Government of Netherlands                       PFC               Power Finance Corporation
HUDCO       Housing and Urban Development Corp. of India    PV                Photovoltaics
IBRD         Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and       RBI               Reserve Bank of India
Development
ICB          International Competitive Bidding - -          Rs.               Rupees
ICICI       Industrial Credit and Investment Corp. of India  SCF              Standard Conversion Factor
ICR         Implementation Completion Report                SDC               Swiss Development Cooperation
IDA          International Development Assocation           SEB               State Electricity Board
IDBI        Industrial Development Bank of India            SERC              State Energy Regulatory
Commission
IDFC        Infrastructure Development Finance Corporation  SFr               Swiss Francs
IFCI        Industrial Finance Corporation of India         SLA               Subsidiary Loan Agreement
IREDA       Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency      SPV               SolarPhotovoltaics
JBIC        Japan Bank for Intemational Cooperation         TAP               Technical Assistance Program
KfW         Kreditanstalt flur Wiederaufbau                 TNPL              Tamilnadu Newsprint & Papers Ltd
kW          Kilowatt                                        US$               US Dollars
kWp         Kilowatt Peak                                   Wp                Watt Peak
Vice President:     Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:        Edwin Lim
Sector Manager/Director:       Penelope Brook/Vincent Gouarne
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Magdalena Manzo



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
RENEWABLE RESOURCES
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               2
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 8
6. Sustainability                                                                    11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   14
9. Partner Comments                                                                  15
10. Additional Information                                                           17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                37
Annex 8. Legal Convenants                                                            38
Annex 9. Examples of Projects Financed under the India Renewable Resources           39
Development Project
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P010410                                      Project Name: RENEWABLE RESOURCES
Team Leader: Magdalena V. Manzo                          TL Unit: SASEI
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 21, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: RENEWABLE RESOURCES                           L/C/TF Number: CPL-35440;
COFN-03220;
TF-20339; IDA-24490;
TF-28633
Country/Department: INDIA                                               Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: PY - Other Power & Energy Conversion
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   10/31/90                               Effective: 04/06/93          04/06/93
Appraisal:  06/29/92                                 MTR: 10/01/95             11/01/95
Approval:  12/17/92                               Closing: 12/31/99            12/31/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: Government of India /Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency Limited
Other Partners:  Private Sector, NGO
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                          D. Joseph Wood
Country Manager:     Edwin Lim                                Heinz Vergin
Sector Manager:      Penelope J. Brook                        Jean-Francois Bauer
Team Leader at ICR:  Magdalena V. Manzo                       Magdalena V. Manzo
ICR Primary Author:  Anil Cabraal
Note: This ICR is for the components implemented by Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency (IREDA)
supporting renewable energy investments and associated technical assistance. The TNPL Papermill component was
completed within the original timetable. Loan 3544-IN was fully disbursed and closed on December 31, 1995;
with a separate ICR issued (Report No. 15619), dated May 9, 1996.
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Project Development Objectives: (a) Promote commercialization of renewable resources technologies by
strengthening the Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency's (IREDA) capacity to promote and
finance entrepreneurial investments in altemate energy; (b) create marketing and financing mechanisms for
the sale and delivery of alternate energy systems based on cost-recovery principles; (c) strengthen the
institutional framework for encouraging entry of private sector investments in non-conventional power
generation; and (d) promote environmentally sound investments to reduce the energy sector's dependence on
fossil fuels.
The project objectives were in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy which provides for
encouraging private participation in the power sector, and promoting environmental benefits including from
feasible renewable energy alternatives. They were likewise supportive of India's national environmental
action plan under which promotion of renewable energy was a key element. The project objectives were
achievable, albeit a longer lead time for market development was required as well as a longer timeframe for
project implementation. Several areas of project risks, ranging from technological, institutional to
affordability issues, were identified at the outset and were duly addressed. However, the credit and
collection risks associated with rural markets for solar PV applications were underestimated, but
nevertheless successfully mitigated through innovative partnerships between energy service enterprises and
self-help groups, farmers' cooperatives, NGOs and micro-finance institutions, among others.
Global Development Objectives. GEF's objectives were to demonstrate commercialization and catalyze
wind energy and solar photovoltaic (PV) investments by strengthening IREDA's capacity to promote
private investments in the sector. The GEF grant was to help reduce the project cost comparable to that of
conventional altematives and equivalent to displacing carbon dioxide emissions at a cost of about US$30
per ton.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
Investments: Financed through IREDA were the following: (i) irrigation-based small hydro projects with an
aggregate capacity of 100 MW; (ii) aggregate capacity of 85 MW of wind farms; and (iii) a marketing and
financing program to support the solar photovoltaic (PV) market and installation of 2.5 to 3.0 MWp of PV
systems.
Technical assistance: to strengthen IREDA's capacity to promote renewable energy technologies and attract
private sector interest; provide technical support and training for IREDA staff, investors and other
stakeholders engaged in renewable energy market development and investment.
The project components were directly supportive of the development objectives. The small hydro and wind
generation components involved similar policy frameworks and power delivery arrangements, although
some operational and grid-interface issues differed. The solar PV component helped achieve the second
development objective particularly in the context of improving rural access to alternate energy services.
The investment components involved a significant expansion of IREDA's business portfolio consisting of
loans to relatively new entrepreneurs investing in emerging technologies, while at the same time requiring
that IREDA's finances remain sound. The technical assistance component supported improvements in
IREDA's corporate administrative and financial management systems, enabling IREDA to creditably
handle this business risk as evidence by its sustained, albeit modest, profit margins, and exponential growth
- 2 -



in asset base (from Rs. 862 million in FY1993 to Rs.23,918 million by FY2002).
3.4 Revised Components:
Project components were not revised. However, co-financing allocated to project components and the
project implementation period were changed.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is considered satisfactory. The policy framework for grid-based small hydro and
windfarm programs were suitably in place in participating states in Southern India, and the investment
pipelines based on identified schemes and investors were available. In contrast, the PV component did not
have an indicative investment pipeline ready at time of project start-up, precisely due to the need to first
develop alternative marketing and financing mechanisms particularly for those PV systems which would
have to be retailed to end-users as consumer durables in the more difficult rural and peri-urban markets.
The technical assistance program was thus designed to support market development activities for PV
applications including training of technicians and entrepreneurs. However, the lead time needed for market
development of solar PV especially in the rural areas, took longer than envisaged.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's set of development objectives was fully achieved and overall project outcome is satisfactory.
(a)    Promote commercialization of renewable resources technologies by strengthening IREDA 's
capacity to promote andfinance entrepreneurial investments in alternate energy. Highly satisfactory.
The project has led to substantial capacity enhancement of IREDA in undertaking its dual mandate of
technology promotions and financing on several fronts. IREDA is now a mature financing institution
specializing in lending for renewable energy and energy efficiency. Its staff has grown from about 20 in
1993 to 134 today, to support a growing and diverse portfolio. Its employee productivity has improved
four-fold from Rs.18 million in loans sanctioned per employee in 1992-93, to Rs.80 million per employee
today. It has committed financing for nearly 1,500 projects developed by the private sector and NGOs
accounting for 1,720 MW. By FY 2002, IREDA's annual loan disbursement level reached $134 million
compared to less than $4 million posted in 1993. To increase its outreach and client support, IREDA
established a cadre of business development associates in selected business centers of the country and is
now piloting five regional representative offices . IREDA has now attracted other international support
including that from the Government of Netherlands, ADB, KfW, World Bank, and GEF in excess of $350
million.
Aside from the increase in capacity installation and number of private investments,
commercialization of the three renewable energy technologies supported under the project is evidenced by
significant reductions in gestation period and in equipment and installation costs (refer to section 4.2).
Commercialization has been fully achieved in the small hydro sector with installed capacity rising to over
1,423 MW over the past 10 years with the vast majority of new installations being owned and operated by
private sector companies for sale of power to the grid, captive generation or third party sale. India is now
the tenth largest user of small hydro power. Similarly, commercialization has advanced rapidly in the wind
power sector with over 90 per cent of the installed capacity of 1,507 MW implemented by the private
sector, compared to 40 MW of state-owned facilities in 1992. IREDA's strong catalytic influence is
evident as other financiers began to support wind farm investments after observing IREDA's experiences.
India is now the fifth largest wind power generating nation. Finally, commercial market development has
advanced in solar photovoltaic, as evidenced by: (i) the large private sector-led manufacturing base; (ii) a
competitive market place where product costs are now among the lowest in the world; (iii) established retail
-3 -



sales and service networks; and (iv) emerging participation of financial intermediaries. But as with
traditional grid-based rural electrification, the rural PV market will continue to depend on the availability of
affordable funding. India is now the fifth largest PV producer in the world with annual outputs of 20 MWp
in 2000 with an installed capacity of 82 MWp.
(b) Create marketing andfinancing mechanisms for the sale and delivery of alternate energy systems
based on cost-recovery principles. Satisfactory. IREDA's role in financing renewable energy
investments has helped reduce their perceived risks, thus encouraging other lenders to support the sector.
Now renewable energy project financing is available from a larger number of national and local banks,
non-bank financial institutions, cooperatives, foundations/trusts as well as government-owned financial
institutions, including ICICI, IDBI, IDFC, IFCI, HUDCO, PFC, Sundaram Finance, Tata Finance,
Syndicate Bank, and State Bank of Hyderabad, compared to nil in 1993. IREDA has financed about 80
percent of private sector small hydro projects, 30 percent of wind projects and the major part of solar PV
schemes outside of the more commnercial PV applications in state-run sectors of telecommunications,
railway, oil and gas, and defense.
Successful marketing and service delivery business models that IREDA has helped launch and nurture
include renewable energy service companies; retail companies selling renewable energy products and
services to consumers; private power developers selling to captive consumers, third parties and to SEBs;
consumer financing offered through rural banks, saving and trading cooperatives, etc. The project has
helped identify innovative approaches to addressing rural credit risks faced by PV energy entrepreneurs
thus opening avenues for PV and other energy supply to penetrate the rural market. Participation of
cooperatives or micro/rural financing entities has been a key to making the systems accessible to rural/poor
consumers.
(c)    Strengthen the institutionalframeworkfor encouraging entry ofprivate sector investments in
non-conventional power generation. Satisfactory. The project helped promote a critical shift in the
Government's approach to renewable energy development from one that was largely state-administered to a
more demand and market-driven approach with active involvement from the private sector.
Entrepreneurial, technician and business development training services sponsored by IREDA has catalyzed
new business formation and enhanced the capacity of renewable energy businesses. Today there are over
100 firms actively involved in renewable energy business (see Section 4.5). During the course of project
implementation, IREDA's role in promoting policy and regulatory changes was through organization of
business meetings in various states during which entrepreneurs were able to interface with policy makers.
Policymakers became aware of renewable energy business as a means to help meet growing local power
supply needs . Accordingly, in addition to the four states that initially participated in the project, i.e.,
Kamataka, Tamil Nadu,Andhra Pradesh, and Kerala, other states started to set up enabling policy
frameworks in support of renewable energy investments. These encouraged the private sector to invest in
renewable energy infrastructure and service delivery systems, expand modem energy services to
under-served rual communities, and support local and global environmental improvement. Over 3400
MW of wind, small hydro, biomass, solar photovoltaic and other renewable energy power systems were in
operation by December 2001, compared to about 100 MW in 1992, with the vast majority of these
investments developed by the private sector/NGOs. IREDA has played a direct and catalytic role in
successfully commercializing renewable energy by financing about half of these capacity additions with
loans to private sector or NGOs.
(d)    Promote environmentally sound investments to reduce the energy sector's dependence on fossil
fuels. Satisfactory. The project helped catalyze an unprecedented growth in the renewable energy
investments and industry such that the share of renewable energy in India's power generation capacity grew
from a mere 0.13 percent in 1992 to nearly 3.4 percent by 2001.
- 4 -



Global Development Objective: Demonstrate commercialization and catalyze wind energy and solar
photovoltaic (PV) investments by strengthening IREDA 's capacity to promote private investments in the
sector. Satisfactory. India is now the fifth largest producer of wind and PV worldwide, with the vast
majority of investments made by the private sector and NGOs. In 1993, India was a minor producer with
nearly 100 percent of the investments being made by the government. Indian products are now price
competitive worldwide and companies are exporting wind and PV technology. In terms of greenhouse gas
mitigation objective of the GEF, carbon emissions avoided as a direct result of the project are estimated at
about 6.6. million tons, i.e., 5.4 million, 1.1 million and 94,000 tons over the lifetime of the small hydro,
wind and PV sub-projects financed, respectively. Cost to GEF of carbon emissions avoided are $4/ton of
carbon, or $19/ton of carbon if only wind and PV investments are included. The estimate at appraisal was
about $30/ton of carbon avoided from solar PV and wind investments.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Small Hydro. An aggregate of 117.9 MW of small hydro capacity involving 35 projects were
commissioned and financed under the project, exceeding the target of 100 MW. In addition, development
of 17 more small hydro schemes (over 35 MW), commenced under this project, and will be completed
under Credit 3396 and IBRD Loan 4571. During this period, IREDA financed an additional 155 MW
using other resources, including domestic market borrowings. The small hydro schemes commissioned
under this project produced an aggregate annual energy output of 485 million kWh at an average plant
factor of 47% (range: 27% to 76%). The median value of unit cost is $1270/kW (range: $550-1760 per
kW) while average cost is $990/kW. (All unit costs are given in year 2000 constant dollar terms.)
Estimated average cost at appraisal was $1030/kW. By international standards, the unit cost of these
low-head projects is low. It represents a significant reduction in cost from earlier public sector experiences
in India which then generally exceeded $3,000/kW. Importantly, project cash flows have improved as time
from ground-breaking to commissioning have decreased from 20-54 months in 1997, to 11-20 months
today. A study commissioned by IREDA found that positive impacts of small hydro projects range from
improved power supply to adjacent villages, increased employment opportunities, boosting of tourism
potential, to improvement in agricultural production and small-scale industrial sector in the rural areas.
Wind Farms. Wind farm capacity financed under the project was 87.2 MW in 27 projects compared to 85
MW envisaged at the time of project appraisal. During this period, IREDA financed an additional 184 MW
using other locally mobilized resources. Actual plant factors of wind farms established in 1993-1996
period, were below predicted levels due to limited experience in wind farm development and poor grid
reliability. Overall performance has now improved with 27 wind farms generating 144 million kWh per
year with an average capacity factor of 18.8 percent. Capacity factors of wind farms are now slightly more
than estimated. Real average cost has remained at about $1,150/kW (range: $950-$1520 per kW), despite
incurring additional investments to improve power evacuation. Unit costs compare favorably with
international experience. Appraisal estimate was $1 600/kW. A socioeconomic survey in Tamil Nadu
commissioned by IREDA showed that rural employment, involving 7,000-9,000 jobs, resulted from the 800
MW wind farms installed in the State. Land price increases, improved quality and availability of power in
the vicinity of the wind farms, and some infrastructure development, such as improved roads, are other
benefits cited by the rural communities.
Solar Photovoltaic. PV capacity financed was 2.145 MWp in 78 projects, slightly below the target of 2.5
MWp. Products financed ranged from 5 Wp solar lanterns, 900 Wp PV irrigation pumps, 500-2500 Wp
solar power packs, and 25 kWp village power schemes to a 200 kWp grid tied system. In addition, IREDA
financed an additional 4 MWp of PV irrigation pumps with MES assistance. IREDA stopped sanctioning
new loans for an aggregate capacity of 578 kWp in May 2001, as completion of these investments before
December 31, 2001 (project closing date), was doubtful. The 2,145 kWp of PV commissioned under this
- 5-



project generates approximately 3 million kWh annually. Unit costs are $4.8-$14.2/Wp for various
product types compared to average costs at appraisal of $16.5-$25.8/Wp. Time for commissioning from
loan registration has decreased from about 20 months in 1997, to 10 months today. Evidence of positive
development impacts from PV use among the poorer consumers are emerging. They include five-fold
income increase among farmers using PV pumps (NABARD survey, Andhra Pradesh), 50 percent increase
in net income by some traders using solar instead of kerosene lighting (Maharashtra); income of some rural
households rising by about 15 to 30 percent, due to increased home industry output (Andhra Pradesh); and
longer study hours for children under better lighting conditions. A more comprehensive development impact
survey is needed to substantiate these field observations.
Technical Assistance Program (TAP). The TAP supported 51 activities that included technology
promotion campaigns, training of IREDA staff and various stakeholders, upgrading IREDA computer
facilities, improving its financial management systems, conducting business meetings, technical reviews of
sub-projects, and a comprehensive review of IREDA's loan portfolio that included a financial audit of its
operations by independent consultants.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The results of the economic analysis and a comparison with estimates made at appraisal are shown below
with details provided in Annex 3. The results are based on an evaluation of 13 representative small hydro
sub-projects including the best, worst and average projects; 27 wind sub-projects and a representative
sarnple of solar PV projects drawn from among the 78 PV sub-projects that were financed.
The completed small hydro projects had EIRRs comparable to those estimated at appraisal, and in excess
of the 12 per cent hurdle rate required under IREDA's Operational Policy Statement (OPS). The EIRRs
estimated at appraisal for the wind farm projects were achieved on average. Some of the early wind
projects did not exceed the 12 per cent rate due to lower than expected capacity utilization factors (CUF),
but the later wind projects with good CUF were able to better the hurdle rate. The solar PV applications
had EIRRs in excess of 12 per cent and better than estimated at appraisal when global environmental
benefits were included. The significantly higher EIRR for PV compared to appraisal is mainly due to the
large unit cost reductions experienced by PV. The results indicate that the grant support for global
environmental benefits could be moderated for some applications.
- 6 -



Comparison of Actual and Appraised Economic Internal Rates of Return
Excluding Global Environmental Benefits Including Global Environmental Benefits l
Investments                                                                   I
At Appraisal        Actual 2/       At Appraisal        Actual a
Small Hydro (Dam-toe)       19 to 65%           28%         GEF support not provided for small hydro
Small Hydro (Canal and      12 to 29%           33%
Run of River)
Wind Farrns                 5 to 10%             9%                12%               14%
Solar PV Lanterns                               19%                                  33%
Solar PV Home System                            30%                                 108%
Solar PV Power Packs       1.5 to 3.3%         -23%            14 to 14.6%           21%
Solar PV Village Power                          -3%                                  14%
Solar PV Water Pumping X                         6%                                  43%
I Economic benefits including global environmental benefits, in the case of wind and PV include the GEF grant, which is
$ 155IkW (10% of initial capital cost at appraisal) for wind, and $4.2/Wp (19% of initial capital cost at appraisal) for PV.
Z/ Wind farm average EIRR is weighted by annual energy output. Similar weighting is not done for small hydro as one large
successful sub-project skews the results. Solar lighting benefits include the consumer surplus from improved lighting.
Benefits from PV pumping for irrigation includes additional income gained from irrigated crops. Wind and small hydro
economic benefits taken as economic cost of avoided diesel generation as this was the basis of the economic analysis in
appraisal report.
I/ With respect to solar PV water pumping, only the community drinking water option was considered at appraisal. The
application financed was for irrigation.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
IREDA Financial Performance. Audited results for the 2000-01 fiscal year show IREDA's total income at
Rs. 534 million, and its post-tax net profit increased to Rs. 163 million, compared to the previous year.
Loan approval and disbursement levels in FY2001 were Rs.10.4 billion and Rs. 5.6 billion, respectively.
IREDA remains in compliance with the Credit covenants. IREDA has met all provisions and financial
performance targets under its Operational Policy Statement (OPS). Specifically, the OPS provides that
IREDA should earn a positive return in real terms on net worth, maintain a debt service coverage ratio of
more than 1.3, and a maximum debt to equity (including grants) ratio of 5:1. These requirements were met,
except in FY 1998 when IREDA had a negative real return on net worth. At the end of March 30, 2001,
non-performing loan assets (NPA) accounted for 14.9 % of all outstanding loans. While this reflects a
considerable improvement over the levels posted in the previous three years (i.e., 21.6% in FY1997-98 and
to over 17% in FY1999 and FY2000), the NPAs involved have increased to Rs. 2.2 billion. Provisional
financial results for FY2002 indicate that the NPA level was further reduced to 12.4%.
Financial Performance of Sub-projects. Representative financial performance of sub-projects financed by
IREDA are given below with details in Annex 3. The financial rates of return for wind farms are generally
high as they incorporate several incentives: (a) a 100% depreciation benefit in year 1 at national level; and
(b) generous state-level incentives in some states, especially the deferral of sales tax payments. For PV
systems, the financial analysis was done from the point of view of the end user. The significantly higher
NPV compared to appraisal is mainly due to the large unit cost reductions experienced by PV. Many PV
end- users also benefited from: (a) 100% depreciation allowance taken by intermediary or end user; and (b)
direct subsidy from MNES. As noted in Section 4.6, such generous incentives which are not uncommon in
the early years of renewable energy promotion, are being moderated.
-7 -



Comparison of Financial Rates of Return and Financial Net Present Value of Investments
Investment uL                Evaluation Criteria  Estimated at Appraisal     Actual
Small Hydro               FIRR on equity before tax  45 to 75%       35% (range: 25% to 67%)
Wind farm projects         FIRR on equity after tax   6 to 23%      94% (range: 5% to >100%)
2/
Solar PV Lanterns                                   -378 to -147          Rs. 776/Wp
Solar PV Home Systems                               -293 to +457          Rs. 226 /Wp
Solar PV Power Packs      Net Present Value at 12%  Not computed           Rs. 17/Wp
Solar PV Village Power     (Year 2000 Rs per Wp)    -585 to +119           Rs. O. l/Wp
schemes
Solar PV Water Pumping l/                              -148                Rs. 20/Wp
i/ Solar PV applications are evaluated from the point of view of the end user. Because of the wide variety of projects
financed, they should be considered as examples.
2/ Wind farm average FIRR is weighted by annual energy output. Similar weighting is not done for small hydro as one large
successful sub-project skews the results.
/ With respect to solar PV water pumping, only the community drinking water option was considered at appraisal. The
application financed was for irrigation.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
India now has a robust and growing renewable energy manufacturing, design and engineering, operation
and maintenance capability compared to the conditions in 1993. This is attributable to the major shift in
Government policy towards promoting private sector investments in renewable energy, backed up by
IREDA's role in renewable energy financing for private sector schemes. The project requirement for
competition in procurement to ensure access to state of the art products has fostered development of
intemational joint ventures. The increased manufacturing capability is also due to the opening up of the
Indian economy, renewable energy industry maturation, technology improvement and cost reduction. The
industrial and business capacity includes:
*   16 small hydro equipment manufacturers, including intemational joint ventures (compared to 10
inactive firms in 1991). The small hydro design, engineering and construction capacity is even stronger.
About 65 percent of the small hydro electromechanical equipment was sourced locally.
*   15 wind equipment manufacturers (compared to three assemblers in 1992); six are intemational joint
ventures. Local content has risen from 15% in 1992 up to 80% today. Wind turbines as large as 1,000
kW are manufactured locally. Indian companies are exporting generators and blades. Specialized
O&M companies have been set up indicating a maturation of the sector.
*   Strong PV manufacturing base with a module/cell production capacity of 20 MWp/year, (over 20
companies compared to four companies in 1991). There are 45 companies that manufacture
balance-of-systems components. India exports 40 percent of its PV output to Asia, the USA and
Europe. Retail sales and service networks have been set up in 12 states and territories, compared to
none in 1992. India has an intemationally accredited PV testing center.
*   IREDA's efforts to promote businesses owned by women and scheduled tribes and castes are bearing
fruit as evidenced by several women-owned businesses (e.g., Dastkar Society for Crafts and
Craftpeople (Gujarat), solar lantern leasing by self-help groups (Andhra Pradesh), Sagar Solar Shop
(Vadodara), and Prakritik Lighting & Urja Systems Ltd., perhaps the first woman-owned PV module
manufacturer).
*   Local and intemational training offered through the technical assistance component has significantly
influenced the growth of consultancy industry on wind power and solar PV. Establishment by IREDA
of knowledge and information networks among technical consultant firms in the various regions has led
- 8 -



to increased awareness of business opportunities in renewable energy.
4.6 Policy Impacts
Beginning in 1991, economic liberalization and MNES success in getting states to adopt supportive
renewable energy policies and incentives, set the stage for this project to have a significant impact. As the
power sector opened up to private investments, several southern states, namely Tamil Nadu, Kamataka,
Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat announced policies for licensing, power purchase pricing as well as
alternative power sales arrangements for renewable energy-based generation. Although fiscal incentives for
selected renewable energy investments such as wind generation and solar PV were already in place, e.g.,
availing of 100 per cent depreciation in the initial year of commissioning, the investment community was
not aware of the technologies nor of their commercial applications.
With support from the project, IREDA launched awareness and promotional campaigns as well as series of
regional business development meetings which helped spread the word on emerging investment
opportunities in renewable energy. Renewable energy investments began to take off with funds provided
through the project. Moreover, progressive removal and/or reduction of import duties and introduction of
policies to facilitate foreign investment and joint venture formation helped transfer advanced renewable
energy technology to India to take advantage of India's low cost, highly skilled technical capacity. In recent
years, additional states issued policies to actively promote private sector investments in renewable energy,
i.e., Maharashtra, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, West
Bengal, and Rajasthan. Today, the private and nongovernmental sectors are undertaking the vast majority
of renewable energy investments in India, with the government increasingly playing a market-enabling role.
In contrast, the market in 1992 was mainly government administered and financed.
To attract more investors, some states supplemented the incentives offered at the national level, with
generous state-specific incentive packages, including deferral of sales tax payments. The net result was
high financial yields to those investors who were in a position to avail of the incentives. As the market
matured, the national and state-level incentives are being moderated. For example, the introduction of the
minimum alternative tax has moderated the impact of accelerated depreciation benefit. Some states have
started to reduce/withdraw some of the incentives as part of their ongoing power sector reforms, such as
increase in wheeling fees, removal of sales tax deferments, limitations on captive power sales.
Today, investor interest in renewable energy remains sufficiently strong as the demand for power continues
to outstrip supply in many states. Renewable energy-based generation has become increasingly competitive
in cost. Levels of investment required are manageable from the local entrepreneurs' perspective,
encouraging some to go for increasingly larger projects. The continued interest of the business community
is evidenced by the robust investment pipeline for small hydro under the Bank-financed Second Renewable
Energy Project, as well as the many privately operated biomass and wind power plants that are being
installed in the country. To further boost renewable energy use, particularly to meet niral energy needs, the
government is considering the adoption of new mandatory market share policies similar to those being
adopted in Europe, Australia and some US States.
Ultimately, for a fuller development of the renewable energy market in India, power sector reforms and
good governance are essential. Tariff rationalization, adoption of appropriate performance efficiency
benchmarks and opening up of the distribution business to service providers other than the SEBs will
enable the cost-effective renewable energy systems to compete in the power market. At the time of
appraisal, however, neither the Government nor the Bank had a clear vision of how sector reform would be
carried out during the life of the project. Hence, in the last two years, as reforms started to take off in some
states, the Project was buffeted by unanticipated and sometimes ad hoc state regulatory changes. Except for
Rajasthan which had explicitly provided for renewable energy development in their reform agenda, other
states did not address the renewable energy dimension of the sector. Incorporation of renewable energy
-9-



development in reform planning and ex-ante analyses of the value-added or otherwise of such a program
will enable champions of renewable energy to have a place at the table in the sector reform dialogue.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The economic slowdown caused by the Asian financial crisis in 1997 hurt IREDA's financial performance,
as many of IREDA's borrowers' core businesses suffered. This is reflected in IREDA posting for the first
(and only) time, a negative real return on net worth in 1998 and NPAs rising to 21.6 percent in 1997-98.
The wind farm investment target was reduced to 30.5 MW in 1997 when DANIDA withdrew its $50
million equivalent in parallel co-financing after disbursing $3.94 million when it decided to finance wind
turbines through its direct lending window. In 1996, the Government of the Netherlands provided DFL 0.8
million ($0.40 million) to strengthen the technical assistance program. SDC co-funding was reduced to SFr
3.75 million from SFr 6 million in FY1999-00. The SDC plans to make up the shortfall through a separate
project for which a planning mission was fielded in February 2001, and a proposal submitted by IREDA in
July 2001.
Implementation delays for the PV component occurred as a number of financial intermediaries earlier
accredited by IREDA to access the credit lines were unable to comply with the Reserve Bank of India's
(RBI) new prudential norms for non-banking financial institutions.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
MNES subsidy programs sometimes conflicted with the market-oriented approach of IREDA-financed
programs. For example, the MNES subsidy for solar lanterns directly competed with the more commercial
approaches being fostered by IREDA. With respect to the small hydro component, implementation delays
occurred when MNES announced subsidy support prompting some developers to pull out of IREDA's
program, only to later return when the subsidy program did not fully materialize. In contrast, MNES and
IREDA partnership in financing PV pumps has been effective in making such pumps affordable to farmers.
In the more recent years, in order to leverage more investments with its limited budget, MNES has
progressively shifted from extending subsidy grants to providing concessional financing through IREDA.
This shift has increased the effectiveness of both MNES and IREDA support.
The Government of India (GOI) and IREDA did not sign a revised Subsidiary Loan Agreemnet (SLA),
whereby instead of a fixed on-lending rate from GOI to IREDA, IDA's concessional terms would have
been extended to IREDA with the latter bearing the foreign exchange risk. This hurt IREDA's financial
position in the face of lower lending rates in the market and after the GEF grant for PV was exhausted. By
year 2000, IREDA relent IDA funds (obtained at 14 percent interest up to August 2000 and 13.5 percent
thereafter), at 2.5 to 5 percent for PV and 13.5 percent for small hydro. However, the SLA signed for the
Second Renewable Energy Project (Cr3396-IN) did provide for passing on the IDA concessional terms to
IREDA.
Efforts led by MNES in making comprehensive and reliable renewable resource information publicly
available have contributed directly to India's success in renewable energy resource development.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
During project implementation, in discussions between IREDA and the Bank conceming procurement
methods, both parties agreed that modification of the original procedures defined in the legal agreement
should be made to better match private sector approaches and characteristics of the PV investments. This
helped accelerate the implementation of the PV component. IREDA also obtained the Bank's clearance to
make small hydro civil works an eligible expenditure as higher civil works costs were making it difficult for
- 10 -



developers to raise the necessary funds.
Solar PV investments began only after the on-lending rates were reduced from 10.3 per cent to 2.5 percent
for rural applications and 5 percent for other sectors. IREDA was able to reduce this interest rate while
meeting its financial covenant of achieving a net positive real rate of return on net worth.
Staff retention has been difficult for IREDA as its government-specified salary structures are below private
banking sector levels. This has led to staff attrition, with trained staff being lured to better-paying
companies and banks. Repeated representations by IREDA to the Government for upgrading of its payscale
has not been acted upon.
Following the mid-term review, IREDA established a Monitoring and Evaluation Cell. The Cell has been
primarily responsible for ensuring that the financed investments had been made and the projects were
functioning as expected. IREDA plans to expand the Cell's responsibilities to include assessment of
development impacts of its projects.
IREDA's proactive reach-out to potential investors through its Best Practices publications, business
meetings and the Business Development Associates (BDA) have been essential to business development,
particularly for PV market development as the PV promoters were relatively smaller and less experienced.
A Bank review of the small hydro projects found that few adverse environmental or social impacts are
caused by these projects. But two issues, land acquisition and relations with other water users, require
early assessment and careful management to prevent project delays and avoid impacts (e.g., a project in
Kuthungal, Kerala highlighted these concerns where land acquisition took three years due to strikes and
court stay orders). While all landowners have received compensation and other entitlements, IREDA has
started to document the impacts of all such projects. In this connection, a study commissioned by IREDA
found that on the whole, no major land acquisition is involved in small hydro projects, and land acquisition
matters are normally solved amicably between the promoter and the private land owners through mutual
agreement and discussions. IREDA has trained its staff on social impact assessment of small hydro
projects, and improved its social and environmental screening process.
The level of non-performing assets, although progressively reduced to 12.4 per cent, needs to be closely
monitored. The proposed RBI plan to issue stricter norms for loss provision and write-off may increase the
NPA in the portfolios. Accordingly, IREDA has taken actions to clean-up its portfolio following the
recommendations in the Portfolio Audit and Diagnostic Study completed in mid-2001. They have increased
their one-time recoveries, conducted more rigorous appraisals, allowed more flexibility to their loan officers
in negotiating settlements, have appointed regional collection agents, and established tighter exposure
limits.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Total project cost was $284 million (estimated to end of project) compared to $280 million at appraisal and
resulted in 207 MW of capacity additions compared to 188 MW expected at appraisal. The IDA Credit
($115 millon, equivalent) and GEF Grant ($26 million, equivalent) were both fully utilized. Financing
from DANIDA was reduced from $50 million to $3.9 million, SDC funding was reduced from $4 to $2.3
million equivalent. These shortfalls were made up by additional funding of $0.4 million from GON, and
IREDA ($40.7 million vs. $17 million at appraisal), promoter/consumer contributions ($87.7 million vs. 68
million), and other loans ($12.5 million).
Small hydro: Actual costs for this component reached $166.0 million compared to $93.5 million at
appraisal. A major reason for the higher cost of the small hydro component is due to the financing of more
hydro capacity, i.e., compared to the 100 MW envisaged at appraisal, the project financed schemes
involving an aggregate of 153 MW of which 117.9 MW was commissioned by project closing date.
- 1 1 -



Increased cost of the small hydro component is also attributable to the higher cost of civil works compared
to appraisal estimate due to the following factors: (a) dam-toe projects which have lower civil costs than
canal-based projects accounted for only 20 percent of the schemes compared to an estimated 40 percent at
appraisal; (b) some low-cost technical solutions proposed in the ESMAP study were not practical to
implement or were not adopted due to increased construction time; (d) irrigation departments required the
developer to build additional canal lining upstream and downstream of the power plant; (e)
under-estimation of civil works costs in the ESMAP study; and (f) higher than expected inflation. The
higher civil works costs created a financing gap of approximately 25 percent as the IDA Credit Agreement
had permitted only financing of equipment costs. In 1996, at mid-term, the Credit Agreement was amended
to permit financing of civil works costs.
Wind: Actual costs for the windfarm component was $87.7 million compared to $125.3 million estimated
at appraisal. The lower cost was due to equipment cost reductions resulting from significantly greater local
content than envisaged at appraisal.
Solar PV: Actual costs for this component was $23.8 million compared to $54.9 rnillion at appraisal. The
lower cost of the PV component was primarily attributable to cost reductions due in part to improved cost
efficiencies, reduction in import duties and worldwide PV price reductions. Further the aggregate capacity
of PV systems actually financed under the project of 2.145 MWp was lower than the 2.5 to 3 MWp
targetted at time of appraisal.
In November 1999 IREDA requested a two year extension in the closing date of the Credit citing the need
to sustain the small hydro program to permit a smooth transition to the Second Renewable Energy Project
(although negotiated in April 1998 this project was approved only in June 2000 due to sanctions). The
Bank granted two, one-year extensions in 1999 and 2000, respectively. As a result of the extensions,
development of over 35 MW of small hydro schemes were initiated under this project to be completed
under the follow-up project. The extension also pernitted the PV component to substantially achieve its
targets.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Sustainability is highly likely for IREDA as an institution. IREDA is now a mature financial institution. It
has mobilized considerable additional financial resources and plans to broad base its equity with national
and intemational participation. IREDA is also taking proactive steps to further reduce NPAs.
On-going power sector reform can help create a competitive investment environment resulting in an equal
level playing field among energy sources and thus promote steady and sustainable development of
renewable energy resources. The small hydro market is commercially sustainable. Similar to other
countries, sustainability of wind farm market yet requires incentives to make the investment attractive
vis-a-vis alternative investment opportunities. These incentives are being moderated as investor experience
increases, and technology costs and performance improves.
Sustainability of PV industry is likely because of the increasing demand intemationally and demand from
the Indian infrastructure sector (e.g., telecommunications, railway). Sustainability of rural PV market will
continue to depend on availability of affordable financing for some time to come. Although for some
applications for which prices have significantly come down, even concessional financing may no longer be
required provided appropriate collection and service delivery systems are already well in place. With the
end of this project, grant or concessional financing for PV is available through the govemment. In addition,
IREDA has flexibility to use the new KfW credit line to continue to offer concessionial funding for PV, with
the cost of funds partly shared by IREDA's more profitable loan windows. Additional affordable financial
resources will be required to ensure that the capacity built and the market momentum created in the rural
- 12 -



areas will not stagnate; othewise, the positive developments that have occurred to date under the project
would be negated. This would be especially unfortunate as the rural market is least able to afford to lose
access to this modem energy source.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
IREDA has been able to carry out its dual mandate as a financing institution as well as a technology
promotion agency, and continues to generate modest profits. It maintains a sufficient cadre of qualified
staff whose growth has matched the increase in its business. Due to its creditable performance as a
development financing institution, IREDA has been able to mobilize funds from multiple national and
international sources. There will however, be a need to expand its equity base to support its growing
business operations. Given the budgetary constraints faced by the Government, IREDA is currently
exploring alternative sources of equity, including from other financial institutions and private investors.
Broad-basing of IREDA's shareholders equity would help ensure adoption of commercial business
practices as well as pave the way for upgrading staff compensation and thus reduce the loss of qualified
staff.
Prospects for sustained growth of the small hydro and wind power industries are high, though the wind
industry may continue to require fiscal incentives, albeit lower than in the past. Except for some niche
markets, the PV industry serving the rural areas will continue to depend on government and donors for
concessional funding support, but less reliance on full grant funding. Active and broad participation by
other financial institutions will be necessary if the government plan of adding up to 10,000 more MW of
renewable energy generation and use of renewable energy to electrify 18,000 villages by 2012, is to be
realized. The estimated costs are likely to be of the order of Rs.500 billion ($10 billion) over ten years, far
greater than renewable energy investments made today. Such financial requirements may be beyond the
capacity of IREDA and MNES. Introducing competition among financial institutions will be important for
commercial development of the renewable energy sector at the scale envisaged. In addition, a more certain
and conducive policy and regulatory environment, removal of energy pricing and market distortions,
multiple product/service delivery agents as well as technology improvements will be necessary if this
ambitious program is to be realized.
There remain two concerns with respect to the sustained regular operations. The first is the likely
dissipation of infrastructure built to serve rural PV market and loss of PV market development momentum
if adequate affordable financing is not available. The second concern is the uncertainty faced by private
sector investors in grid-tied projects with respect to volatile and inconsistent changes in regulations and
tariffs.
The Monitoring and Evaluation Cell of IREDA needs to continue to assess the performance and
development impacts of investments financed under this project. Key indicators are energy performance of
projects vis-a-vis estimates, unit costs and time to completion, global benefits, rural income and welfare
improvement, and industry development. The financial performance of IREDA would be tracked through
its annual audited financial statements. The Bank's involvement with IREDA will continue through the
Second Renewable Energy Project.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Lending is rated satisfactory. The project formulation is based on three ESMAP-funded studies on
non-conventional energy systems, mini-hydro development and wind farms. The components were identified
and detailed in subsequent studies funded by GEF and PHRD. The project design was consistent with the
- 13 -



government's energy sector strategy, trade and industrial policy reforms, and complied with the Bank's
country assistance strategy. The project implementation approach was based on consultations with the
government, financial sector as well as private sector investors. The decision to use IREDA as the
implementation agency was taken after an assessment of the interest and capability of other financial
institutions. At appraisal, the project had a robust pipeline of mini-hydro and wind farm projects. Most
technical and financial risks were recognized and mitigation mechanisms were set up. However, the
regulatory and policy risks with respect to wind and small hydro, such as those experienced during last two
years of project implementation, were underestimated. The Bank recognized that implementation risks were
highest for the PV component as it departed significantly from the business-as-usual approach of
government tendering that existed in 1992. Capacity building was recognized as a key requirement to
mitigate some of these risks and significant funds were mobilized (supplemented later by GON funds).
Considerable resources were also allocated to strengthening IREDA's institutional capability. Agreement
was reached on an Operational Policy Statement (OPS) which described IREDA's operating philosophy,
objectives, programs and procedures and financial performance benchmarks. The co-financing partners,
DANIDA and SDC, were closely involved in all aspects of project design and appraisal.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision is rated satisfactory. Further, the project was reviewed by QAG under the "quality of
supervision assessment" in October 2000, and the overall supervision effort was rated as "satisfactory".
The Task Team Leader who prepared the project, continued to supervise the project. Typically two to three
supervision missions per year were undertaken which included field visits and consultations with
beneficiaries and business communities. The supervision teams consisted of fmancialVeconomic, technical,
socialVenvironmental, and procurement specialists, as needed. Technical specialists from outside the Bank
who were directly involved in windpower, solar PV and small-hydro power developement, respectively,
participated in some missions and were asked to provide independent review of the respective programs.
The aide memoire and project supervision reports are comprehensive and realistic. When issues arose the
team took timely corrective actions, including revising procurement rules and amending legal agreements.
Procurement supervision based at the Bank's New Delhi Office was particularly useful in timely resolution
of problems and in advising IREDA on procurement matters. Considerable attention was paid to achieving
the physical targets and ensuring IREDA's financial health. However, more attention could have been paid
to monitoring of project outcomes and post-installation performance. Before recommending extensions of
the closing date, the supervision team outlined specific measures needed to be taken by IREDA, including
the conduct of a comprehensive financial and portfolio audit. As the project drew to a close, an independent
study to document the lessons learned and emerging best practices was conducted. The cofinanciers, in
particular, SDC participated in supervision. SDC, Government of Netherlands and DANIDA joined the
mid-term review. As a consequence, GON, which had been an early supporter of IREDA, contributed an
additional $0.4 million to strengthen the IREDA technical assistance program.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall Bank performance is satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower preparation was satisfactory. The borrower (represented by MNES and IREDA) facilitated
consultations with key stakeholders, supported the preparation of the components and established policies
to ensure that IREDA had the operational independence to undertake its responsibilities.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance was satisfactory. During the course of the project, as part of the
- 14 -



overall opening up of the Indian economy, import duties and other barriers were substantially removed
allowing greater private sector participation in the sector. The GOI provided equity contributions and
pennitted IREDA to access the domestic financial markets (37 percent or Rs.4.9 billion of funds are
sourced through tax free bonds and local bank loans). MNES proactively convinced state governments to
give incentives and permit private firms to invest in renewable energy generators and sell electricity to the
SEBs or other customers.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
IREDA's performance is deemed highly satisfactory. Despite its innately risky business portfolio, IREDA
has exceeded the goals set under this project while meeting or exceeding the performance requirements
established under the OPS. Follow-on financial support in excess of $350 million provided by other
international financial institutions and coursed through IREDA for renewable energy and energy efficiency,
testifies to its success. It has effectively used technical assistance to not only strengthen its own
capabilities, but also to develop the overall sector, reach out to rural and disadvantaged communities, and
to assess its performance and correct deficiencies. The project is in full compliance of covenants (Annex 8).
IREDA issued their audited annual financial statements in a timely fashion and prepared comprehensive
quarterly progress reports to aid project supervision. IREDA was proactive in engaging the Bank on
discussions for introducing procurement methods which seem a better match for the private sector approach
of the project. These discussions eventually resulted in modifications being made to the legal agreements
that had been constraining achievement of the project objectives. Project implementation has benefited from
the continuity of the IREDA Managing Director who has remained in the position for the duration of the
project.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall performance is highly satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
As one of the first renewable energy projects financed by the Bank, the project provides invaluable
experience and knowledge on development of market-based approaches to promoting renewable energy
through public-private sector partnership. The key lessons leamed from the project are presented below.
The increased investments in small hydro, wind generation and solar PV have helped make these
technologies more cost effective and their scale and modularity lend themselves well to addressing energy
needs of the rural poor. Based on the satisfactory outcome of the project, a follow-up operation was
approved by the Bank to support expansion of the small hydro program to include investments in other
states. But for renewable energy systems to develop to its full potential and be competitive in India's power
market, structural reform, tariff rationalization and good govemance in the power sector are essential.
Accordingly, any future Bank lending for renewable energy should be closely linked with the reform
program.
Renewable energy market development takes time. Allowance must be made for the longer lead time
needed to develop these innovative projects and pace of market development must consider alternative
business opportunities available to investors - this is particularly true for PVprojects. Much of the first
four years was spent on capacity building and working with prospective investors in PV. It was only in the
fifth year that the pace accelerated. Compounding these commercial market development difficulties were
low transaction-cost opportunities such as govemment PV tenders for telecommunications and MNES PV
subsidy schemes.
There is a need to systematically monitor development outcomes and impacts. Given the positive impact
of renewable energy schemes to rural communities and users, the establishment of baseline information and
monitoring of program benefits will facilitate evaluation of the contribution of rural energy programs in
- 15 -



redressing poverty.
Specializedfinancial institution such as IREDA was essential in beginning the commercialization of new
technologies, but if market growth is to expand, broader participation by the financial sector is essential.
Prior to 1992, few, if any, other financial institutions would finance renewable energy given the limited
knowledge about the new technology. IREDA's path breaking investments helped reduce the perceived risks
so that other lending institutions have begun to finance such projects. Greater outreach to, and capacity
building of other financial institutions is needed to mobilize the necessary additional resources.
Similar to rural electrification the world over, affordable financing accessible to rural consumers are
essentialfor selling PV products in rural areas. Given the high first-cost of PV, consumers require
financing to make PV products affordable to them and/or grants to buy down the first cost. Financing also
helps to deepen the market as more consumers in an area can afford the products - in contrast, cash sales
are affordable only to the richest consumers, even with a capital subsidy. It is also essential that financing
is available locally - the rural market for lantems, solar lighting kits expanded only when savings
cooperatives, micro-finance institutions and rural banks that are closer to the customers, began to finance
such products.
Delivering rural P V services needs a partnership between key actors: ruralfinancing institutions,
product/service suppliers and preferably organized consumer groups. Rural financing institutions are
important for delivering credit rather than expecting PV suppliers to also be credit suppliers. A supplier
with quality products and services accessible by rural consuners is essential. Working with organized
consumer groups reduce risks as there is peer pressure to ensure repayment and helps minimize the
transactions costs.
Assessment of land acquisition as well as payment of compensation should be completed prior to
commencement of civil works to avoid delays in project implementation. This is particularly important
for development of small hydro schemes.
Procurement rules and contract value limits need to reflect the goal of the project and the strategy for
achieving the goaL In the PV market development component, where the market creation incentive rested
with private sector suppliers, progress was constrained by procurement rules that limited direct contracting
to less than $ 10,000 per contract. This required suppliers to spend considerable resources marketing a
client with the risk that others who had not incurred these marketing costs, could undercut its bid. This was
a disincentive for market development. Implementation progress improved when the direct contracting limit
was raised to $50,000 and on a case-by-case basis to $250,000 for consumer durable goods.
Policy Development
The renewable energy program should be consistent with and embedded into the plan for power sector
reform and restructuring. Sector reforms and good govemance are essential for the development of the
renewable energy market. Tariff rationalization and adoption of appropriate performance efficiency
benchmarks in the power sector will result in a better appreciation of the growing competitiveness of
renewable energy systems. Except for Rajasthan which had explicitly provided for renewable energy
development in their reforn agenda, other states did not address the renewable energy dimension of the
sector. Incorporation of renewable energy development in reform planning and ex-ante analyses of the
value-added or otherwise of such a program will enable champions of renewable energy to have a place at
the table in the sector reform dialogue.
Supportive and predictable policies and regulatory framework are essentialfor market development.
Wind and hydro development progressed fastest in states with favorable policies and regulations and not
necessarily in states with the best renewable resources. However ad hoc policy revisions retroactively
applied in some states such as ban on third-party sales, restrictions on captive generation and increased
- 16 -



wheeling charges, are discouraging potential investors and increasing the financial risks.
Tariffs and power sales rules should be fair to all parties for sustainable development of the sector.
Allowing third party sales and captive generation led to the developers cherry-picking the SEB's highest
paying industrial/commercial customers. As a result, SERCs began backing off earlier incentives offered to
developers. The tariff computation needs to be made rationally, transparently and be predictable, within
reason. If renewable energy development is a declared government priority, extra incentives should be
funded transparently from government resources rather than requiring one sector to mainly bear the cost.
Careful attention should be paid to maximizing energy output rather than installed capacity. For wind
farm projects in the early days, given the embryonic state of knowledge, inadequate attention was paid to
maximizing energy output. Also, significant tax incentives that were available made power generation
(kWh) of secondary importance to commissioning a wind farn within the tax year. With the tax incentives
becoming less significant and energy tariffs increasing, developers are paying greater attention to
maximizing energy production. Monitoring performance is important and feedback must be provided to
developers.
Regular review and rationalization of subsidy policy is necessary. In the initial formative stage, given the
high perceived risks, stronger incentives are needed to encourage developers to invest and gain experience
as poor project formulation and construction inefficiencies extract their toll on development profits. Once a
body of experience is established, a larger number of developers see opportunity for profit and enter the
market. At this stage, the government should review the incentives they offer, and revise them as necessary
to lead to an increasingly commercial market.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/inmplententing agency:
Summary of IREDA Comments: The physical achievements far exceed the original estimates, except in
case of PV. Nevertheless considerable momentum has been generated in PV development through the
private sector to fully meet the market development objectives. The sustainability of the wind and small
hydro programs depend on stable policy and regulatory environment at state and federal levels; and for PV,
on the availability of adequate low cost financing. Streamlining procurement practices helped improve
speed of implementation. The procedures for obtaining statutory clearances from state agencies need to be
streamlined as these remain a bottleneck in some states. Thanks to simplification of Bank procedures,
reimbursement of funds occurred without much delay. Speedy clearance of IREDA's proposals by the Bank
shows the confidence it had in IREDA.
The technical assistance program was a critically important component that contributed directly to the
success of the IREDA investment program, and for overall sector and market development. In particular,
entrepreneurship and training programs have resulted in the entry of new entrepreneurs and development of
skilled manpower, including future trainers. Many of these programs benefited women and weaker sections
of society.
Bank supervision missions had regular interactions with stakeholders, including end-users to understand
site conditions and actual problems. Their enthusiasm to visit remote rural areas of the country to
encourage end-users and clients contributed to the success of this project. This interaction helped formulate
strategies and action plans; adapt rules, procedures and guidelines; and streamline procurement and
documentation. There was constant sharing of knowledge, experience and expertise between IREDA, the
Bank and other partners. The success of the project also lies in the contribution by Bank technical experts.
This project was been a learning experience for all stakeholders for a number of reasons - the concept of
commercial financing for renewable energy was new, as were the technologies, scale of investments, private
- 17 -



sector participation, and procurement procedures. Mission members are commended for their seriousness
and interest in steering the project.
Thanks to the credibility built through this project, IREDA has successfully sourced additional funds from
international donors, including the Bank. The government has contributed additional equity to IREDA.
Authorized share capital of IREDA will be increased from Rs.3,000 to Rs.4,000 million. The GoI has
proposed a massive PV market development plan to be implemented by IREDA in the 10th Five Year Plan
(2002-2007). The Bank's second line of credit for IREDA is already in operation for small hydro and
energy efficiency investments. KfW funds are available for wind, PV and cogeneration. KfW is
considering a second credit line for energy conservation, biomass, wind, etc. IREDA is discussing PV
financing with SDC. Assistance from the JBIC of $85 million and from the US Exim Bank of US $100
million are in the pipeline. IREDA has begun discussions with the ADB for support of its lending
operations.
The IREDA evaluation report, IREDA/DCCS/WB-1/23/01, February 21, 2002, and its update of May 10,
2002 are in the project files.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Government of the Netherlands, Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "We are very pleased that IREDA's
performance has been deemed highly satisfactory and that the organization met or exceeded the
performance requirements established under the OPS. The follow-up financial support provided by other
international financial institutions for renewable energy and energy efficiency, testifies to IREDA's
success."
Comments from other co-financiers were invited but none were received.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
The ICR mission consulted with small hydro and solar photovoltaic project developers and financial
intermediaries who have accessed financing from IREDA. Overall, they expressed positive sentiments
towards IREDA's implementation of the project and the importance of the project in commercial market
development. They indicated that loan processing time and complexity had reduced considerably compared
to the early days of IREDA. Nevertheless, the high transactions cost and time needed to travel to New
Delhi to meet IREDA was a concem particularly to the smaller developers. Small hydro developers are also
concemed about the evolving regulatory environment in some states where rules detrimental to private
sector power development are being promulgated. The continued need for concessional financing was noted
by PV developers who are serving the rural market. Comments were not received from the Wind Power
Producers Association or any of the wind developers. Written comments submitted are in the project files.
10. Additional Information
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/Im act Indicators:
1. Renewable energy cost is competitive
1.1I Unit development cost (Year 2000 $)
- Small Hydro                         $ 1030/kW  (over $3000/kW      $ 990/kW (average) and
pre-project)                    $ 1270/kW (median)
- Wind Farms                          $ 1600/kW                       $ 1150/kW
- Photovoltaics                        $ 16.5-25.8/Wp                  $ 4.8 to 14.2/Wp
1.2 Average capacity factors for small hydro,  60%, 18.7%, 15%            47%, 18.8%, 17%
wind and PV, respectively
2. There is increased access to renewable
energy by consumers
2.1 Energy output from small hydro, wind and  525, 139, 3.2 GWh/year,       485, 144, 3.1 GWh/year respectively
PV from project investments             respectively
2.2 No. of rural consumers benefitting from PV  Not estimated              More than 44,400
2.3 Aggregate national renewables capacity
- Small Hydro                          256 MW (FY97)                   1423 MW (Dec '01)
- Wind Farms                           118 MW (FY97)                   1507 MW (Dec'01)
- PV                                   12 MWp (FY97)                   82 MWp (Dec'01)
2.4 Renewable energy as percent of total power  0.4% (FY95)                3.4% (Dec '01)
generation capacity
3. National/state capacities to develop/suppor
renewable energy is enhanced
3.1 National/state-level policies are in place to  National govemment and 4 states  National government and 13 states have
encourage private investment in renewable  had supportive policies in place in  supportive policies and incentives. But
energy                                  1993.                          recent SERC rulings in some states call
for revisions in policies for power sales.
3.2 Other financing institutions include   not estimated                  Ten other financial institutions are
renewable energy in their portfolio                                    financing renewables.
3.3 IREDA is financially sound and growing:
Positive return on net worth          range of 8.2% - 18.2% for period  range of 1.8% - 22% for period
FY94-99                        FY93-99; 11.6%(FY01)
- Annual disbursements                 Rs. 1091 million (FY99)        Rs. 2261million (FY99); Rs 5607
million (FY01);
- Net profit after tax                 Rs. 93 million (FY99)          Rs 189 (FY99); Rs. 163 million (FY01)
- Provision for NPA                    Rs 28 million (FY99)           Rs 89 million (FY99); Rs 137 million
(FY01)
- Employment Productivity (value of loans  Not projected; was Rs.18   Rs.80 million/employee (FY01)
sanctioned)                           million/employee (FY92)
3.4 Hydro, wind and PV firms in            Not estimated                  16, 15, 65 firms, respectively
manufacturing/services, respectively
4. Adverse environmental impacts are
reduced
4.1 Carbon emissions mitigated by wind and PV  0.9 - I million tons carbon  1.2 million tons carbon
over lifetime of investments
4.2 Direct cost to GEF of carbon emissions  $ 30 per ton carbon            $ 19 per ton carbon
mitigated by wind and PV
4.3Direct cost to GEF of carbon emissions                                  $ 4 per ton carbon
mitigated by small hydro, wind and PV
-19-



Output Indicators:
1. Renewable energy investments are
financed through credit line
1.1 Small Hydro                        100 MW                         117.9 MW commissioned with
development of 35 MW started
under the project; another 155
MW financed by IREDA using
locally mobilized resources.
1.2 Wind                               85 MW (reduced to 30.5 MW     87.2 MW with another 184 MW
after withdrawal of DANIDA  financed by IREDA using locally
parallel financing)         mobilized resources.
1.3 Solar PV                           2.5 MWp                       2.145 MWp with another 4
MWp financed by IREDA using
MNES and other locally
mobilized resources.
2. Technical Assistance                 IREDA institutional           Over 51 activities successfully
development & strengthening   completed.
capacity; technical support and
training for IREDA staff;
technical support, outreach and
training for investors and others
- 20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Appraisal                Percentage of
Project Component        Estimate      Actual       Appraisal
Small Hydro                   93.5        166.0       178%
Windfarms                     125.3        87.7       70%
Solar Photovoltaics           54.9         23.8       43%
Technical Assistance            6.0         6.4       106%
Total                        279.7        283.8       101%
Actual includes estimate of remaining disbursements computed at Rs. 48.24/US$.
Price/physical contingencies and IDC included in above for ease of comparison.
Amounts may not add up exactly due to rounding
Details are given below:.
Estimated at Appraisal          Actual
(Millions of doll.)  Physical     Price    Interest durng Interest during
contmgences contingencies construction  construction
Small Hydro            6.7         11.2         8.1         13.9
Wind Farms             10.2        9.0          4.4           0
Solar Photovoltaics    3.9         9.8          2.6           0
Technical Assistance    1.5         0            0            0
- 21 -



Summary of Procurement Arrangements At Appraisal
(US$ millions)
Commercial
Project Component        ICB         LCB       Practices '  Other2       Total
Small Hydro                  25.0       20.0        40.0         -          85.0
(25.0)      (20.0)     (25.0)        -          (70.0)
Windfarms                    15.0        10.0       38.0        58.0       121.0
(15.0)       (3.0)     (10.0)        -          (28.0)
Solar Photovoltaics           7.0        -          35.0        10.0        52.0
(7.0)       -          (26.0)      (7.0)      (40.0)
Technical Assistance          1.0         3.0        -           2.0         6.0
(1.0)       (2.0)       -           -           (3.0)
Total3                       48.0        33.0       113.0       70.0       264.0
(48.0)      (25.0)      (61.0)      (7.0)     (141.0)
Summary of Procurement Arrangements (Actual Estimates to end of project)a
(US$ millions)
Commercial
Project Component      ICB/LIB       LCB       Practices I   Other2      Total
Small Hydro                  48.4        29.8        74.0        -          152.1
(39.8)      (20.8)       (0.9)       -          (61.5)
Windfarms                    17.9         -          62.5         7.3        87.7
(10.6)        -         (44.5)       -          (55.1)
Solar Photovoltaics           3.3        -           20.5        -          23.8
(1.7)        -         (14.6)        -         (16.3)
Technical Assistance          -           -           -           6.4         6.4
-           -           -          (3.6)       (3.6)
Total3                       69.5        29.8       156.9        13.7       269.9
(52.1)      (20.8)      (60.1)       (3.6)     (136.6)
"Commercial Practices" includes quotations, direct contracting etc.
2 "Other" includes consultant selection using Bank guidelines etc. and procurement using DANIDA
guidelines for parallel equipment financing of wind turbines
3Total excludes IDC
a Contract values include taxes and duties, but excludes interest during construction. Values in
parentheses reflect IDA and GEF-financed portions
- 22 -



Project Financing by Component
Appraisal Estimate
Cofinanciers        Promoters/  Other
Component         IDA      GEF     IREDA    DANIDA     SDC      GON     Consumers  Loans     Total
Smal Hydro                  70        0        0         0        0        0         24        0        94
Wind                        15        13       16       50        0        0         31        0       125
SolarPhotovoltaics          30       10        0         0        2        0         13        0        55
Technical Assistance         0        3         1        0        2        0          0        0         6
Total                      115       26        17       50        4        0         68        0       280
Actual [Estimated to end of project - December 31, 20011
Cofinanciers        Promoters/  Other
Component         IDA      GEF     IREDA    DANIDA     SDC      GON     Consumers   Loans    Total
Small Hydro               61.5       0.0     36.1      0.0      0.0      0.0        56.0     12.4     166.0
Wind                      41.6      13.5      3.6      3.9      0.0      0.0        25.0     0.0       87.7
Solar Photovoltaics        7.3       9.0      0.0      0.0      1.0      0.0        6.5      0.0       23.8
Technical Assistance        0.0      3.6      1.0      0.0      1.3       0.4        0.0     0.0        6.4
Total                     110.4     26.2     40.7      3.9      2.3      0.4        87.5     12.4     283.8
Actual as a Percentage of Appraisal Estimate
Cofinanciers        Promoters/  Other
Component         IDA'     GEF 2   IREDA    DANIDA     SDC      GON     Consumers   Loans     Total
Small Hydro               88%          -      n/a        -        -        -      233%        n/a     177%
Wind                     277%      104%      23%       8%         -        -       81%                 70%
Solar Photovoltaics       24%       90%         -        -     48%         -       50%         -      43%
Technical Assistance         -     121%     100%         -     67%        n/a          -        -     106%
Total                     96%      101%     2390/o     8%      57%        n/a      129%       n/a     101%
n/a - Cannot be computed since denominator is zero.
' IDA disbursement is 96% in US$ but expected to be 100% in SDR.
2 GEF disbursement in US$ is 101% but 1000/h in SDR.
Note: Totals may not add up exactly due to rounding
- 23 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Comprehensive details of the economic and financial analyses, including cash flows are given in: Meritec
Ltd., "India Renewable Resources Development Project: Review of Project for Implementation Completion
Report," April 2002. The report is in the project files.
(a)     Small Hydro Component
A comparison of the economic and financial internal rates of return of the small hydro schemes at appraisal
with those constructed and commissioned is as follows:
Table 3.1 Comp arison of Estimated and Actual EIRR and FIRR for Small Hydro Sub- roiects
EIRRs at Appraisal            EIRRs Ahieved *             FIRRs at           FIRRs
State                Dam-Toe      Canal Drop      Dam-Toe       Canal Drop       Appraisal @      Achieved @
Karnataka            19 to 65%     12 to 29%        28%          27 to 35%      45 to 75% for      25 to 36%
(21%)       (22 to 30%)    schemes in various
____ ____ ____ ___ _   __ ____ ___ ____ __   _ ___ ____ ____ ___sta te s
Tamil Nadu          20 to 44%
Andhra Pradesh        41%          14 to 23%                     28 to 38%                         30 to 51%
(20 to 32%)
Kerala              13 to 41%                                    ROR 48%                             67%
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ (37 % ) _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
* EIRRs are based on an economic benefit taken as the economic cost of diesel generation. This was the basis of the economic
analyses in the Staff Appraisal Report. EIRRs in parenthesis are based on an economic benefit taken as the LRMC of grid supply.
@ FIRRs estimated on investors' equity before tax.
# Results based on the analysis of 13 of the 33 projects considered as a representative sample, and including the best, worst and
average projects.
The economic and financial results achieved are generally in the same range as the EIRRs/FIRRs envisaged
at appraisal. The average economic and financial results of the 13 small hydro schemes analyzed in detail
are as follows:
Table 3.2 Average Actual EIRR and FIRR for Sample of Small H dro Sub- roects
EIRR / FIRR Analysis                                              Average        Average Weighted by Annual
(mean)              Energy Output*
EIRR (real):
Benefit taken as the cost of diesel generation             32%                     39%
Benefit taken as the LRMC of generation                    26%                     31%
FIRR (current) on total capital                                    27%                     36%
FIRR (current) on equity before tax                                35%                     49%
FIRR (current) on equity after tax                                 30%                     44%
* Figures are skewed by one large successful project (Kuthangal, 2 1MW)
(b)     Wind Power Component
A comparison of the economic and financial internal rates of return of the wind farm projects at appraisal
with those constructed and commissioned is as follows:
- 24 -



Table 3.3 Comparison of Estimated and Actual EIRR and FIRR for Wind Sub-projects
EIRRs Estimated at        EIRRs Achieved *         FIRRs Estimated at
Project Appraisal      with benefits based on:     Project Appraisal   FIRRs Achieved
Without    With       Without          With        Without    With
States                    GEF       GEF          GEF            GEF          GEF        GEF
Tamil Nadu                                     3 to 14%       4 to 17%                              7 to 37%
_____________________             ~~(-I to 13%)    (I to 16%)                            7t  7
Gujarat                  5   0%     2%-1 to 7%                 0 to 9%                              5 to 17%
Gujarat_                 5 - 10%   12%        (-4 to 4%)     (-3% to 6%)    6 - 23%   10 - 41%
Andhra Pradesh                                   4%              5%                                   9%
Maharashtra                                    9 to I I1%      4 to 3%                            62 to >100%
(3 to 5%)      (4 to 8%)
20 to 23%       22 to 27%)
Karnataka                                    (11% to 14%)   (14% to18%)                            39 to 53%
Rajasthan                                        12(6%)         (185%)                                20%
The analysis of commissioned schemes uses an SCF or 0.9, as compared with an SCF of 0.8 assumed at appraisal.
* EIRRs are based on an economic benefit taken as the economic cost of diesel generation (this was the basis of the economic analyses in the Staff
Appraisal Report). The EIRRs in brackets assume an economic benefit taken as the LRMC of grid supply.
** FIRRs on investors equity after tax.
The average economic and financial results of the 27 wind power projects is as follows:
Table 3.4 Average Actual EIRR and FIRR for Sampl of Wind Sub-Projects
Average        Average Weighted by
EIRR / FIRR Analysis                     (mean)         Annual Energy Output
EIRR (real): *
Without GEF                     9% (5%)              11% (7%)
WithGEF                         11% (7%)            14% (10%)
FIRR (current) on total capital            13%                  16%
FIRR (current) on equity after tax         114%                 94%
* EIRRs are based on an economic benefit taken as the economic cost of diesel generation (this was
the basis of the economic analyses in the Staff Appraisal Report). The EIRRs in brackets assume an
economic benefit taken as the LRMC of grid supply.
The main points to note are:
*    Fourteen of the 27 projects financed achieved an EIRR of 12% or greater (based on a benefit of
avoided diesel generation and accounting for global environnent benefits). This was generally as
expected at appraisal where EIRRs, with GEF, were estimated to be 12% (also based on a benefit of
avoided diesel generation). GEF grant represents the global environmental benefit of the project.
*    Some of the early projects (in Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh) showed actual capacity
utilization at about half that expected at appraisal. Consequently these projects were not economic and
show poor financial returns.
*    Most of the later wind farm projects achieved high returns due to improved wind farrn performance and
to sales tax deferment incentives offered by some states.
*    The averages on FIRR on equity after tax is skewed to the high side due to the ten projects in
Maharashtra which were exceedingly profitable due to the generous sales tax deferment incentives.
(c)     Solar PV Component
Because of the wide range of solar PV products financed under the project, and the variety of financing
mechanisms applying a sample of solar PV sub-projects has been selected for analysis as follows:
1. Solar PV Lantems - Wahan Dharak example with 5Wp PV-CFL lanterns. IREDA project code 1996
- 25 -



and Case Study Number 3 in report titled "Emerging Lessons and Best Practice", Winrock, October
2001.
2. Solar Home Lighting Systems - 37Wp systems, data taken from field observations.
3. Grid Interactive Solar Power Packs - The Social Work & Research Centre, 5. lkWp system. IREDA
project code 1170.
4. Isolated Solar Power Plant - WBREDA 25kWp isolated grid supply system on Sagar Island. IREDA
project code 854 and Case Study Number 4 in Winrock report.
5. Solar PV Pumping System - Polyene Film Industries example with 860Wp floating water pumping
systems for irrigation. IREDA project code 617 and Case Study Number 5 in Winrock report.
Information was also obtained directly from Polyene Film Industries.
Estimated EIRR at appraisal for PV sub-projects was 1.5 to 3.3 percent excluding global benefits and 14
to 14.6 percent when global benefits were included. The results of the analysis of the representative solar
PV sub-projects are summarized below in Tables 3.5 and 3.6:
Table 3.5 Comparison of Actual EIRR With and Without Global Environment Benefits
Solar PV Sub-project                                With Global        Without Global
Environmental Benefits Environmental Benefits
Solar PV Lanterns (5 WM)                               47%                 29%
Economic benefits equal to avoided cost of kerosene used
in hurricane lamp of Rs 3/day
Economic benefits, including consumer surplus, measured  33%                19%
in terms of lighting benefits valued at Rs 20/kWh
Solar PV Home Liehtinn (37 WD)                         60%                  15%
Economic benefits equal to avoided cost of kerosene used
in petromax lamp of Rs 7/day
Economic benefits, including consumer surplus, measured  108%               30%
in terms of lighting benefits valued at Rs 20/kWh
Grid Interactive Solar Power Pack (5.1 kWD)            21%                 -23%
Economic benefits equal to avoided cost of
uninterruptible grid power supply
Isolated Solar Power Station for Villaee (25 kWM)      19%                  -3%
Economic benefits equal to avoided cost of small diesel
generation
Solar PV Pumos for Irrigation (860 WO)                >100%                 2%
Economic benefits equal to avoided cost of diesel driven
pumps
Economic benefits, including reum from increased       43%                  6%
agricultural production for small farms
Table 3.6 FIRR and Financial NPV for Solar PV Sub- projects
Financial NPV
Solar PV Sub-Project                                  FIRR *        Year 2000 Rs./Wp *
Solar PV Lantems (5 Wp)                               >100%                 776
Solar PV Home Lighting (37 Wp)                         48%                  226
Grid Interactive Solar Power Pack (5.1 kWp)           >50%                  17
Isolated Solar Power Station for Village (25 kWp)      29%                  0.1
Solar PV Pumps for Irrigation (860 Wp)                 17%                  20
* From the solar PV user/owner's perspective. # Financial NPV calculated at a 12% discount rate.
It is clear from Tables 3.5 and 3.6, the level of incentives for solar lighting can be moderated or even
eliminated.
- 26 -



Assumptions and Basis for Cost and Benefit Estimates
Economic analyses of small hydro and wind sub-projects is in constant border price terms at the year of
start of construction. Economic analysis of solar PV sub-projects is in constant 2000 domestic prices.
Financial analyses are in current prices. Parameters used in the analyses are given in Tables 3.7 to 3.9.
Figures are in constant year 2000 prices unless otherwise indicated:
- 27 -



Table 3.7 Assumptions and Basis for Cost and Benefits Estimates for Small Hydro and Wind Sub-projects
Parameter                       Small Hydro Sub-projects                Wind Farm Sub-projects
Number of projects analyzed     13 out of 33 projects considered as a     27 in total, 14 commissioned between 1993
representative sample, and including the  and 1997, 13 commissioned during 2000
best, worst and average projects.        and 2001
Plant size per Sub-project       0.8 to 21 MW, average of 3.5 MW           I to 15 MW, average 3.4 MW
Capital cost US$/kW              Project specific, ranges from: ROR $ 522 to  $ 950 to $ 1,520/kW
1,644 / kW; Dam-toe $ 743 to 1,105 /kW;
Canal $ 900 to $ 1,754 /kW
Project implementation           Project specific. Typically 2 to 3 years but  100% in the first year
disbursements                    ranging up to 4 years.
Plant load factors               27% to 58% with average of 47%            11% to 31% with average 18%
Wheeling fee                    2% of generation                          2% of generation
Inflation                        5% per year from 2000 onwards             5% per year from 2000 onwards
Electncity selling price        Varies between projects but predominantly  * Commissioned before 1996: Between Rs
(2000 prices)                   based on a 1995 price of Rs 2.25 / kWh      3 to 4/kWh escalating at 10%.
escalating at 5% per year.               * Commissioned after 1996: Around Rs 3.5
/kWh escalating at 5%.
% Equity investment              20% to 61% of total capital with average of  16% to 68% of total capital with average of
36% (compared with 25% at appraisal)    33% (compared with 25% at appraisal)
Loan interest rate               Project specific - ranges from 12.5% to 15.5%  Project specific - ranges from 12.5% to
14.5%
Loan term                        10 years                                  Project specific - ranges from 8 to 10 years
Grace period                     For period of construction (Max 4 years)  I year
O&M cost (% of plant cost)       2% of plant cost constant in real terms   2% of plant cost constant in real terms
Insurance                       0.5% of capital cost                      0.2% of capital cost
Financial incentives:
* Tax holiday                   First 5 years of operation                First 5 years of operation
* Accelerated depreciation      n/a                                       100% for 25 out of 27 projects. Assumes
investors can offset 100% of losses against
other business.
* Capital subsidies             n/a                                       For 15 projects (between 1.5 and 2.0
million Rs per project)
* Sales Tax Exemption           n/a                                       100% of plant cost for 10 projects, over
6 years. Assumes investors can take
advantage of total incentive.
Tax rate                        Marginal tax rate of 35%                  Marginal tax rate of 35%
._______________________ . Minimum Altemative Tax of 7.5%       Minimum Alternative Tax of 7.5%
Depreciation                    Straight-line over 20 years.              Over I year for projects with accelerated
depreciation incentive.
Straight-line over 20 years for rest.
Economic life                    30 years                                  20 years
Basis of economic costs          Financial costs converted to border prices sing an SCF of 0.9.
Global environment benefit      n/a                                       US$ 155,000 / MW (Based on GEF
contribution)
Economic Benefits:              * Avoided economic cost of diesel generation (Rs 4.1/kWh in 2000 prices based on diesel
fuel cost of US$ 0.30Aitre non-escalating in real terms).
* Avoided LRMC of grid supply (Rs 3.0/kWh in 2000 prices. Estimate based on coal-fired
generation and Rs I/kWh for transmission.)
Economic discount rate and                       12%                                       12%
hurdle rate
- 28 -



Table 3.8 Assumptions and Basis for Cost and Benefits Estimates for Solar PV S       b-projects
Parameter                       Solar Lanterns    Solar Home      Grid-Interactive   Solar Power      Solar PV
____ __  Systems        System           Station         Pumps
Size (Wp)                           5 Wp            37 Wp            5.l kWp          25 kWp          860 Wp
System financial cost
(US$/Wp)                            $16.2            $7.68            $8.45            $7.70           $6.73
Disbursements                                            I100% at the beginning of year I
Solar plant output (net)                                   0.0045 kWh per Wp per day
Battery replacement            Rs 600 per 3     Rs 3,500 per 3   Rs 0.5 million per  Rs 2.164      No battery
years             years           5 years           million per 5
years
Battery charge controller      Rs 350 every 5   Rs 500 every 7   n/a               n/a             n/a
replacement                    years            years
Light Bulbs                    Rs 80 every 2    Rs 160 every 2   n/a               n/a             n/a
years            years
Other O&M costs                                                                    2% of capital   Replace pump
cost            every 10 years
Inflation                                                5% per year from 2000 onwards
Financial costs / financing (from  Lease cost of Rs  Loan at 2.5%  Loan at 2.5%    Connection cost  Up front lease
the user's perspective)        I / day                                             of Rs 1000 plus  fee of Rs
a monthly fee   80,000 (incl.
Rs 120          maintenance
fee)
MNES capital subsidy           not available to  Rs 6,000        Rs 940,000        Rs 5 million    not available
lessee                                                              to lessee
Financial benefits             Avoided costs of  Avoided costs of Avoided UPS (Rs  Savings from    Avoided cost
(from the user's perspective)  hurricane lamp   petromax lamp   0.6 million) and   avoided diesel  of diesel
battery (Rs 0.5    generation      pumping (excl.
million) + avoided                 capital cost of
grid supply tariff of              pump)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   _Rs 3/kW h
Global environment benefit     Rs 189/Wp [Based on allocation and use of GEF grant for PV component by IREDA]
Basis of economic cost         Financial costs converted to border prices using an SCF of 0.9
Economic benefits:             Consumer surplus (CS) of Rs                                         Net income
* Economic return calculation  20/kWh. For SHS, CS benefits from                                  gain of Rs
lighting attributed to half electricity                              2 1,000 per
used as balance displaces battery-                                   year for small
powered appliances without net                                       farm *
increase in CS.
* Least economic cost        with hurricane    with petromax   with grid supply  with diesel      with diesel
comparison for lighting   lamp              lamp             and UPS           generation on   driven pumps
Sagar Island
with an AIEC of
Rs 21/kWh
Economic life                  I0 years         15 years         15 years          15 years         20 years
NABARD survey of farms with similar pump sizes and "Supply of Power to Agricult re - Haryana Report" give net income gains of around Rs 7,000
per acre.
Table 3.9 Inflation and Exchange Rate Assum     tions
1993      1994       1995      1996      1997      1998      1999      2000
Domestic Inflation       9.5%      9.2%      8.7%      7.5%       7.0%      7.9%      3.5%      4.1%
International Inflation  1.4%      4.3%      7.5%      -2.6%     -3.9%      -4.0%     1.7%       -3%
Rs / US$                  30        31        32         35        36        41        43        45
- 29 -



Sample Calculations
RENEWABLE RESOURCES PROJECT - SMALL HYDRO COMPONENT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
PROJECT: Guntur Branch Canal
(constant 2000 Rs millions)
Year         Annual      Capital     Operating      Total      Benefit /       Net
Generation     Cost         Costs        Cost       Avoided       Benefit
(MWh/yr)                                              Cost
1                          31.19                     31.19                    -31.19
2                             7.8                      7.8                       -7.8
3                3365                      0.81       0.81            10.1       9.29
4                3365                      0.81       0.81            10.1       9.29
5                3365                      0 81       0.81            10.1       9.29
6                3365                      0.81       0.81            10.1       9.29
7                3365                      0.81       0.81            10.1       9.29
32               3365                      0.81       0.81            10.1       9 29
EIRR - net cash flow               20%
ENPV - net cash flow @12%           37.6 millions of R3
AIEC (at 12%)                       0.04 USD/kWhs
Notes: Figures given in border pricing terms using an SCF of 0.9; Costs and benefits are assumed to
occur at the end of each year; Capacity 0.8MW;Plant Load Factor of 49%; Economic Life of 30 years;
O&M costs of 2%of capital cost; Insurance of 0.5% of capital cost; Wheeling fecof 2%of generation;
Avoided LRMC of supply of Rs 3.0 / kWh
RENEWABLE RESOURCES PROJECTr - SOLAR PV HOME LIGHTING SYSTEM
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(2000 RIs)
Benefi based on consumer surplus (50% of electri city for im~proved lighting)
Year       Initial   Battery     Bulb     Controller   Total    Economic     Total
cost                                        Cost      Beneflt     Cash
Flow
0          10,236                                      10,236      6993      -3,243
1                                           ~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~0 3,932  3.932
2                                   128                   128      3,932      3,804
3                      2,797                            2,797      3,932      1,135
4                                   128                   128      3,932      3,804
5                                                           0      3,932      3,932
6                      2,797        128                 2,925      3,932      1,007
7                                              400        400      3,932      3.532
1                                   128                   128      3,932      3,804
9                      2,797                            2,797      3,932      1,135
10                                  128                   128      3,932      3,804
II1                                                         0      3,932      3,932
1 2                    2,797        128                 2,925       3,932      1,007
1 3                                                         0       3,932     3,932
14                                  128                   128       3,932     3,804
1 5                                                         0       3,932     3,932
Asusnnd mp        opeod -h =steibeg-egotyee tend                  EIR.R           108%
bmereis s%Mngtithe end ofyeax1                                    NPV             17,822
- 30 -



Renewable Resources Project - Small Hydro Component
Financial Analysis
Project: Guntur Branch Canal
(Current Rs millions)
Ye         1          2        3        54                  68         7        8     ...         20        21       22
Pant C                                              I         1       100       1tOO       100      1001               100I    10        100%
Ene     Ava e fbr Sale (MWh)                       3.365     3,365    3.36   3,35          35       33365                        3,365    3,365
SaePrice 2Ph)                    s7       32         17       3.32      349       367       a85      404                7.26      7 62     8(oo
Revenue                                            10.66     11.19    11.75      12.34     1295     1260               2442      25.64    2693
O0W RSYSW                        .                   .           '
Total Revenue                    .                 10.66     11.19     11.75     12.34     1Z95      U.60              24.42     25.64    26.93
0&M Ex-                                             0.98      1.08      1.18      1.30      1.43      1 57              4.94      5.44     5.98
Inaaanoe                                            0.26      027      0.28       0.30      031      0.33               0.59      0.62     0.65
Ow E            s                .         .         .         .        . 
Toed                             p x                1.24      1.35 1O47           1.60      1.75      1 9               5.53      608  0   663
Net Op    em   e b e                                9.42      9.84    10.28      10.73     11.21    11.70              1889      1959     26
Sw   Vaue                                                                                                                                  5.36
Ci Co (id. VAT, exd. lD        32.32 IDCs
ToaW Net Cash Fow              (332 (F.08)          9.42      9.64     10.26     10.73     1121      1170               18.89    19       2565
Fbiandal Evaltlon on Total Capita
RM on Nt Cash Flow                        23.3%
AIFC                          12.0%        246 Rd eMM
FNPV an Nnt Cash Row          15.5%        20.8i ldlo  ofRs
Loan                           2 23.64   3376      3837      34 53    30.70      26 88     23.02    1919
Inteardu   Coislrion            1.85      4.61                          .
Inbroe Pa  t on Lan                                 5.95      5.35     4.76       416       3.57     z97
AnnuW LtEin RseprTwd                                3.84      284       3.84      3.84      3.84      3.84
E6ub Investnent                 8 48                                                                                   _        _
Not CpamUna Cash Fbw                                9.42      9.84    10.26      10.73     11.21     11.7               18.89     19 59    20.29
Value Added Tax                  .         .         .           .         .         .
Tolal Net Cash F   before Tax   (8.48)1             0.36      0.65      1.69      273       3.80      4.88              1889     1959      2565
Fbnandd Evauaton on Equity Cal - Before Tax
FIRR an Not Cash Raw                     298%
FNPV on Ne Cash Flow          15.5%         19 nulonm of Re
Booke Value                     I        I         I              L I         I         I         Ii          I             I i       i        i
DepaXon                                            -2.| .  11 1  Z111  Z11 1      2.111     Z111 I    1 Zl I            Z11 I     Z111      1 ZlI
AomMn ProSBebreTax         I     *I        *1       1.36      Z7        3.411      .4       s         511               17|       1Z1      118
cprf Tax                        |                         *       I        *          I7 * 31 1                         5,s.7 1   6.12 l6
Minvn Altei      Tax                          I     0.10 f    0.18 1   0.z61      0 331     0.41 1    * I     
NetCashfiowAloter Tax          (8.48)1    8.4      (8.4.      0.478    1.31       z401.     33971      5 31            11102     13.47    142
FC  al  Evalflow on Equ.y C5ta . After Tax
FRR on Not Cash Flo                      24.7S
RNPV on Nat Cash Raw giD      15.5          10 "logo" of Rs
Debt Service =   bt                           I 1      0961   1.02 1    1.071     1.131     1201      122M I       I         
Cwr    gLity cash fow(post ax) I- (8a48)1  (8.48)1  (8.95)1  (I.8ll   (7,05)1    (4.65)1    O 2S}l    1 311        1   ill 06 I  2.3      138
Cavft brmak-n Year         I                                               I          1         1   7.5  1         1        1         1        1
a, Yearly qiFnes  rinot prol after tax but wit, instam and deyedaton added back. dmded by dals wrvce csL
bI COxmit effed of net poft ter tax bt WM  ar  and deedatn added bac. cidled by debt service cot
Renewable Resources Project - Solar Home Lighting System
Financial Analysis
(Current Rs)
Ye                        0           1           2            3           4          5        ...      14        1s
WWI                       0          60.8        60.8        60.8         60.8        0.8              60.8     60.8
Tcte Rsteno ae                            12,800
EWpty                                      32C
Lan                                        3X00       3,240        2880        a20          210       180D
lwmwwTer                                                35D           30           0          30       360
lrsi hI                                                  90           81          72           63       54
B        afyp-t                                                                405
BE  relw     t                                                       176                      194                         317
Faw      Sa-ig (0dedp* paco   *W   )                  Z683         2817        2968         3,180     3261              5fM      5,312
Toi CaZw                                   P          2,233         ,199       (1O          2,488     Z847              4,742    5,312
FM     on e4    tmb  c tm      48h
FNPVa 1/                  8w3            225 Mp
- 31 -



ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL CAPACITY FACTORS OF WIND FARMS
While the early projects had lower-than-expected capacity factors, due to lack of experience, overall actual
performance of wind farms was better than expected. On the average, wind farm capacity factors were
nearly 3 percentage points better than estimated values.
Conre,io.n on E dirruted *nd Actud Wind Farm Cpacit Fectors
Wind Fmm ProJeto Soupopted byh IJREDA
410.0     r
340D
30
200 
150
10D       105      2DD       2575     3t0D      10        40D
Estin*t.dCF(ParoQnt)
UNIT COSTS OF PV SYSTEMS
(Year 2000 $/WD)
Cost Reduction Relative
to:
Product                Appraisal    1997-98     2000-01     Appraisal    1997-98
Lantem (5 Wp)                                 -       19.19       14.22            -        26%
Lantem (10 Wp)                            25.80       12.13        9.33         64%         23%
Solar Lighting                            17.07       12.61        7.67         55%         39%
Grid-tied Solar Power Plants (0.5 kWp)        -       25.86       12.47            -        52%
Grid-tied Solar Power Plants (2.5-3 kWp)      -       13.20        7.56            -        43%
Centralized grid (50-200 kWp)                 -        6.58        4.76            -        28%
Irrigation Pumping (900 Wp)                   -        9.71        6.67            -        31%
Village Power                             16.50       18.29       12.47         24%         32%
- 32 -



Hiahliahts of IREDA's Financial Performance (Audited)
OPS                        FISCAL YEARS
Financial Indicators     Units    Requirement  1991-92   1992-93    1993-94   1994-95   1995-96
Total Income              Million Rs                   38        60         61       115        231
Net profit after Tax      Million Rs                   16        50         31        53         77
Annual loan Approvals     Million Rs                  248        307     1,624      2,426     6,049
Annual Disbursements      Million Rs                  102        182       559      1,303     2,385
Total Assets              Million Rs                  619        723     1,218      2,542     4,714
Capital Base              Million Rs                  295       425        516      1,146     1,477
Retum on Invest Capital    Percent                    8.4%     11.8%      7.4%       5.8%      7.2%
Real Retum on Net Worth    Percent     Positive      1.78%     1.05%     0.10%      0.19%     0.34%
Debt service Coverage
Ratio                                   >1.3          1.77      5.55      6.78      11.77      4 91
Debt Equity Ratio                       <5:1          0.99      0.59      0.49       0.66      1.61
Reschedulment % of Loan
Outstanding                             <10%     Complied   Complied  Complied  Complied   Complied
Liquidity                 Month of
Disbursement     >3       Fulfilled  Fulfilled  Fulfilled  Fulfilled  Fulfilled
NPA Loans to Total Loans   Percent                                                  1.91%     4.21%
NPA Loan                  Million Rs          _-                         ---          34        157
OPS                        FISCAL YEARS
Financial Indicators     Units    Requirement  1996-97   1997-98    1998-99   1999-00   2000-01
Total Income              Million Rs                  325        255       478       533        534
Net profit after Tax      Million Rs                  140         16       188       195        163
Annual loan Approvals     Million Rs                 3,288     4,990     6.841      9,285     6,650
Annual Disbursements      Million Rs                 2,375     1,874     2,257      4,194     5.607
Total Assets              Million Rs                -7,352     8,949     11,045    13,719    18,574
Capital Base              Million Rs                 1,952     2,221     2,811      3,465     3,990
Retum on Invest Capital    Percent                    11 .9%   8.1%      9.4%       9.6%      9.2%
Real return on Net Worth   Percent     Positive      1.15%    -6.59%     5.75%      1.38%     2.63%
Debt service Coverage
Ratio                                   >1.3          2.45      1.32       1.36      2.47      1.70
Debt Equity Ratio                       <5:1          2.30      2.58      2.51       2 34      2.68
Reschedulment % of loan
Outstanding                             <10%     Complied   Complied  Complied  Complied   Complied
Liquidity                 Month of
Disbursement     >3       Fulfilled  Fulfilled  Fulfilled  Fulfilled  Fulfilled
NPA Loan to Total Loans    Percent                   5.07%    21.60%     17.50%    17.32%    14.94%
NPA Loans                 Million Rs                  276      1,332      1,303     1,813     2,218
- 33 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
06/91
Appraisal/Negotiation
06/92
11/92
Supervision
05/93                        2   Energy Specialist,
Environmental Consultant
07/93                        5   Energy Specialist, Renewable
Energy Specialist, Power
Engineer, Procurement Engineer,
Procurement Assistant
10/93                        7   Renewable Energy Specialist,
Power Engineer, Procurement
Engineer, Pr. Financial Analyst,
Sr. Operations Advisor, Research
Assistant, Dutch DGIS
11/95                        5   Task Manager, Renewable           S             S
Energy Specialist, Hydro
Specialist Engineer, Finance,
Project Assistant
11/96                        4   Mission Leader, Climate Change,   S             S
Financial Analyst Consultant,
Solar PV Consultant
12/97                        5   Task Leader, Financial Analyst,   S             S
Economist, Engineer,
Procurement Engineer
07/98                        3   Task Leader, Private Sector        S             S
Development Specialist, Project
Assistant
12/98                        4   Sr. Operations Officer,            S            S
Anthropologist, Sr. Power
Engineer, Solar PV Engineer
11/99                        4   Sr. Operations Officer, Financial  S            S
Analyst, Solar Engineer, Sr.
Renewable Energy Specialist
4/00                         3   Sr. Operations Officer, Sr.        S             S
Renewable Energy Specialist,
Procurement Engineer
11/00                        5   Sr. Operations Officer, Sr.        S            S
Financial Specialist, Social
Development Specialist, Energy
Specialist, Hydropower Specialist
4/01                         4   Sr. Operations Officer, Sr.       HS            HS
Financial Specialist, Energy
- 34 -



Specialist, Hydropower Specialist
ICR
11/01                       4    Sr. Operations Officer, Sr.      HS            HS
Renewable Energy
Specialist, Renewable
Energy
Consultant/Economist,
Procurement Engineer
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              109.8                      260.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                    31.8                       86.9
Supervision                              153                       308.6
ICR                                       11                        32.5
Total                                   305.6                      688.7
- 35 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L Macro policies                            O H   OSUOM        O N   * NA
OSector Policies                            O H   *SUOM        O N   O NA
O Physical                                  O H   *SUOM        O N   O NA
O Financial                                 O H    *SUOM       O N   O NA
O Institutional Development                 0 H    * SU 0 M    0 N   0 NA
OEnvironmental                              O H    * SU O M    O N   O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                  O H   OSUOM        O N   * NA
L Gender                             O H OSUOM O N * NA
Oi Other (Please specify)            O H    OSUOM       O N   * NA
X Private sector development                0 H    * SU O M    0 N   0 NA
Li Public sector management                 0 H    O SU O M    0 N   * NA
Z Other (Please specify)                    O H    * SU O  M   O N   O NA
Global environment
Note: While the project did not have a poverty/gender-specific objectives, the PV component in particular
did have substantial positive impacts.
- 36 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
 Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
 Supervision                                        OHS OS       O U    O HU
E Overall                                            OHS OS       O U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
 Preparation                                        OHS OS       O  U   O HU
 Government implementation performance              O HS O S     0  U   0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                  * HS O S     0  U   0 HU
S Overall                                            *HS OS       OU     0 HU
- 37 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Douglas F. Bames, Kevin Fitzgerald, and Henry M. Peskin, The Benefits of Rural Electrification in
India: Implications for Education, Household Lighting, and Irrigation, Draft Working Paper, The
World Bank, March 2002.
2. IREDA, 14th Annual Report - 2000-2001, New Delhi, India, August 7, 2001.
3. IREDA, Renewable Energy, Energy Efficiency Financing Guidelines, New Delhi, India, March 5,
2001.
4. IREDA, Status Report for Small Hydro Power Sector for the World Bank First and Second Credit
Lines, New Delhi, India, October 31, 2001.
5. IREDA, Status Report for SPV Market Development Component for the World Bank Credit Line,
New Delhi, India, November, 2001.
6. IREDA, Status Report for Wind Power Sector for the World Bank Credit Line, New Delhi, India,
November, 2001.
7. IREDA, Partner Comments: Project Implementation Evaluation Report, Report No.
IREDA/DCCS/WB-1/23/01, February 21, 2002 (preliminary) and dated May 10, 2002 (latest).
8. IREDA, Various Data as Input to ICR, December 21, 2001 to March 2002.
9. Meritec Inc. Renewable Resources Development Project: Economic and Financial Review of Project
for Implementation Completion Report, Consultant Report, April 2002.
10. Ministry of Non-conventional Energy Sources, Renewable Energy in India - Business Opportunities,
New Delhi, India, 2001.
11. Polyene Film Industries Ltd., Feedback from Polyene Film Industries Ltd., Comments from Promoter,
November 2001.
12. Shri Shakti Altemative Energy Ltd., Feedback to World Bank/IREDA on SPV Project Implementation,
Comments from Promoter, November 2001.
13. Solar Energy Equipment Manufacturers Association, World Bank Line of Credit - 2449-IN SPV
Market Development Program, Trade Association Commentary, November 27, 2001.
14. Srikanth, J. and D. Swamy, A Comprehensive Study on Socio-economic and Environmental
Implications of Wind Energy Generation in Coimbatore, Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari Districts of
Tamil Nadu, Dr. GRD College of Science, Coimbatore, India, 2001.
15. Sungrace Energy Solutions, Feedback on Project Achievements under IREDA-World Bank SPV
Market Development Programme and Market Analysis of Solar PV Sector in India, Comments from
Promoter, November 2001.
16. The World Bank, Implementation Completion Review Mission - India Renewable Resources
Development Project, Aide Memoire, Washington DC, USA, November 19-30, 2001.
17. The World Bank, India Renewable Resources Development Project, Staff Appraisal Report, Report
No. 11240-IN, Washington DC, USA, November 30, 1992.
18. The World Bank, Joint Mid-Term Project Review Mission - India Renewable Resources Development
Project, Aide Memoire, Washington DC, USA, November 1-10, 1995.
- 38 -



Annex 8. Legal Covenants
Agreement                           Description of Covenant                      Covenant
Status
Development
Credit Agreement
2.02 (b)       GOI to open a Special Deposit Account with the Reserve Bank of India.  Complied with
4.01 (b)      GOI to furnish audit of Special Account to Association not later than six Complied with
months after FY end.
Project
Agreement
3.02         IREDA to take out and maintain insurance                      Complied with
4.01 (b)      IREDA to furnish to the Association audited financial statements within  Complied
nine months after FY end, along with the auditor's report.    with
4.01 (c)      IREDA to furnish to the Association unaudited records, accounts, financial Complied
statements not later than six months after FY end.            with
Schedule 2     IREDA to implement an organizational structure and increase staff based  Complied
Para (1)      on agreed timetable.                                           with
Schedule 2     IREDA shall review with the Association by July 1,1993, the interest rate  Complied
Para 4(a)     for loans for solar PV schemes, based on the results of the PV market  with
survey under the Japan Grant.
Schedule 2     IREDA shall review with the Association by May 1, 1995, the interest rate Complied
Part 4(b)     for loans for small hydro and windfarm schemes based on the mid-term  with
review of the project.
Schedule 2     IREDA to carry out a mid-term review of the project and furnish the  Complied
Para 5       findings of the review to the Association no later than March 31, 1995.  with
Schedule 2     IREDA to submit financial statements for the current year and projections  Complied
Para 6(a)     for the next five years, comparing with parameters in the OPS, by  with
December 31 of each year.
Schedule 2     IREDA to furnish by March 31 each year, evidence of equity support from  Complied
Part 6(b)     GOI to enable IREDA to meet liquidity levels agreed to.        with
Schedule 2      Each scheme estimated to cost the equivalent of US$5 million or more  Complied with
Para 3        shall be subject to prior approval by the Association. First two schemes
each of small hydro, windfarm and solar PV shall also be subject to prior
approval.
- 39 -



Annex 9. Examples of Projects Financed under the India Renewable Resources Development P oject
Small Hydro Power.
Under the RRD project,  9
IREDA has financed 52
irrigation-based small
hydro projects ranging in  or
size from 500 kW to 21  ,_        _ 
MW in Andhra Pradesh,
Karnataka, Kerala, and               -
Maharashtra. The facility  -                        4      1-
shown in the photograph                     I
is Sriramadevarakatte      f ]-_
Mini Hydel Scheme in                                  -     4
Hassan District,
Karnataka, India was
developed by Amogha                  _
Power Projects (Pvt) Ltd.
Sanctioned in 1998, the                         A - 
cost of the facility was  E           _       .
Rs. 74 million (US$1.8
million in Year 2000 dollars), or about $1200/kW. It was commissioned within 20 months of loan
agreement signing. It sells 5.3 GWh annually to Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Ltd.
Wind Farm Projects.
Under this project.             -                 I
IREDA has Financed 34
wind farms ranging in
size from I to 15 NM W
each. A%erage capac1r, 
of the wind larnas v as
3.25 M%'    Thewind  -.--       .'    >   .  ,, e 4
farms are located in        ~     - 
Mahar-ashtra, Rajasthan,  '          ~      ~     .    ' 
Karnataka. Tamil Nadu.                                  6/       2     v           : 
Gujarat and Andhra                        +        .     l   fSrf'^               -        I
Pradesh. Implementation,,,                        '                     l           l   5
has taken one to nine ;_ _ ;l.IES2l=
months. Tuirbine sizes. MI|911
have increased fitrom | ^iEa_w_......... s
225-250 kW in Lhe earl i 
Capacity factors have ranged from 15 to 31 percent.
-40 -



Solar Lantern Leasing Program by
a Savings Cooperative. Wahan
Darak Nagari Sahakari Patsantha
Maryadit is a savings cooperative  -
located in Kolhapur, Maharashtra.              -   -                               
They obtained a loan from IREDA
to purchase solar lanterns from
Sungrace Energy Solutions Ltd.                          ; ti l .:,   ,
This company also warrants the     -   :.                    :;j '      .
product and provides training to                                 . -            U
cooperative staff on repair and
maintenance of the lanterns. The
lanterns are leased to their
members at about Rs. I per day.
The members include petty
traders, farmers and dairymen,
among others. The traders, who
operate roadside stalls or small
shops have found that the high
quality of lighting and lack of kerosene fumes attracted more customers during the main business hours
from 6-9pm and their income increased by Rs.50-100 per day, corresponding a 50% net income increase.
The dairymen find the lanterns far safer, cleaner and brighter than the kerosene lanterns they previously
used. User expenses are also reduced as they used to pay about Rs. 24/day for kerosene. The 5 Wp lantern
cost is approximately Rs. 3500. IREDA has supported similar lantern leasing programs run by companies,
foundations and cooperatives. About 40,000 lanterns rated at 5-10 Wp each have been leased with support
from this project through various intermediaries.
Saear Island Solar PV                  .r -
Villane Electrification. The
Wiest Bengal Renewable
Energy Developmeni
Agency obtained financing
under this project and                  -
installed 3x23 kWp mini-
gnd PV systems in Sagar
Island, West Bengal to meet
the power needs or
communities living in this  Ji
environmentally sensitive
area of the Sundarbans. The
system provides power to
350-400 households for E
lighting, television, fans etc.
and the households pay Rs.
8/kWh ($0.18/kWh), higher                                                               .uX
than tariffs paid by grid-
supplied customers in West Bengal. Commissioned in 1998, the system cost Rs. 10 million. Unit cost of
the system is about $11.50 (Year 2000 dollars). Based on the success of this first project, three more 25
kWp systems were commissioned in Sagar Island. The second project commissioned in 1999 cost Rs. 8.7
million ($8/Wp in Year 2000 dollars), a 30 percent cost reduction.
- 41 -



Leasinn of Grid-tied Solar PV Power       .
Packs. NPR Finance Ltd. is a non-
bank financial institution engaged in
hire purchase and leasing of
equipment. They obtained financing
from IREDA to procure and lease     -
103 solar power packs, each 400 Wp
capacity with a 48V, 180 Ah battery
for a variety of applications. These                                    -_
have been leased to hospitals,
educational institutes, transport
companies, private companies and
for domestic uses. These systems are    --:                                           -
even used in electrified areas to help
users protect their critical appliances
during power outages or fluctuations.
Based on the success of this project,
three more projects promoted by
different intermediaries have been
supported by IREDA. The unit cost of the first project was over $20fVp. The unit costs of the subsequent
projects have come down substantially to under $1O/Wp.
Solar PV                   ~ 
Irriafion Pumps
Leasing
Nagarnuna
Finance availed
of credit from
IREDA and
leased 85 solar
PV pumps to
farmners in
Andhra Pradesh.
These farmers
who originally
were dependent            |
on rain fed
agriculture have          ---
seen their                                             .-
incomes increase  -                                        -'
five fold,
according to a survey done by NABARD. These 900 Wp pumps are used in open wells with heads of less
than 10 meters and can irrigate 1.2 to 2 hectares. Taking advantage of the tax incentives available and a
grant of Rs. 55,000 from state agencies, the lease fee to the farmers is a one-time Rs.30,000 payment, or
about 10% of the cost of the pumping system. The pump supplier, Polyene Films Ltd. trains the farmers
and provides maintenance support. The company notes that these pumps reduce the pressure on the SEBs
to provide grid supply to irrigation punps and avoid an incremental investment cost of Rs. 160,000 per
pump. In addition to the 85 pumps financed under this project, in parallel, IREDA financed another 4400
solar PV pumps with support from MNES.
- 42 -



HDFC Bank Grid tied Solar PV System. The HDFC
Bank installed a 75 kWp grid interactive power plant in
their Bank building located in Mumbai. It provides
power for their computer operations and lighting. It
includes a battery bank to provide backup power during  .*
power cuts. Based on the success of this project, the
HDFC Bank installed several more such systems in
their branch offices. Total project cost was Rs. 27.7
million ($ 670,000 year 2000 dollars), or about $9/Wp,
installed. The project was commissioned in 1998.
-43 -






IMAGING
Report No.:        23489
Type:     ICR



