Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                        CREDIT NO. 2449 IN
                                                     TRUST FUND NO. 020339
                                                 NETHERLANDS NO. IN 920331
                     Netherlands Grant Agreement
             (Renewable Resources Development Project)
                              between
                               INDIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               as Administrator of Netherlands Funds
                          provided by the
               MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
                        OF THE NETHERLANDS
                        Dated May 14, 1996
                                                        CREDIT NO. 2449 IN
                                                     TRUST FUND NO. 020339
                                                 NETHERLANDS NO. IN 920331
                    NETHERLANDS GRANT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 14, 1996 between INDIA, acting by its President
(the "Grantee") and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION acting as
Administrator (the "Administrator") of the Netherlands Grant (as
hereinafter defined) provided by the Minister for Development Cooperation
of the Netherlands (the "Minister").
      WHEREAS the Grantee has requested the assistance of the technical
assistance component of the Renewable Resources Development Project
(the Project) to be carried out by the Indian Renewable Energy Development
Agency Limited (IREDA);
      WHEREAS the Association has granted a Credit for this purpose on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, dated
March 5, 1993, between the Grantee and the Association (the "Development
Credit Agreement");
      WHEREAS the Minister wishes to make available to the Grantee a grant
to assist IREDA in carrying out the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement on the terms and conditions hereinafter set
forth ("Netherlands Grant");
Page  2
      WHEREAS by arrangements dated December 11, 1986 between the Minister,
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
Association (the "Arrangements"), the Minister has requested the
Association, and the Association has accepted, to administer, inter alia,
the Netherlands Grant in accordance with the provisions of the
Arrangements; and
      WHEREAS the Grantee acknowledges that the financial assistance
extended to the Grantee under this Netherlands Grant Agreement shall be
considered as part of the bilateral development aid extended by the
Government of the Netherlands to the Grantee;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (the "General
Conditions") constitute an integral part of this Agreement subject,
however, to the following modifications thereof:
      (a)   the term "Association", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association acting as
Administrator of the Netherlands Grant pursuant to the Arrangements,
except in the phrase "member of the Association" in Sections 2.01 (5),
4.02 (b) and 6.02 (e);
      (b)   the term "Development Credit Agreement", whenever used in
the General Conditions, means this Agreement;
      (c)   the term "Credit", whenever used in the General Conditions,
means the Netherlands Grant extended to the Grantee under this Agreement;
      (d)   the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the General
Conditions, means the Netherlands Grant Account, the account opened by
the Administrator in its books in the name of the Grantee to which the
amount of the Netherlands Grant is credited;
      (e)   in Section 6.02 the term "Association" shall also include the
International Development Association acting in its own capacity;
      (f)   Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
            "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
            such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
            the Grantee and the Administrator, the Grantee shall prepare
            and furnish to the Administrator a report, of such scope and
            in such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request,
            on the execution of the Project referred to in the Preamble
            to the Netherlands Grant Agreement, the performance by the
            Grantee and the Administrator of their respective obligations
            under the Netherlands Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of
            the purposes of the Netherlands Grant"; and
      (g)   Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.06, 6.05,
7.01, 8.01 (a), and Article XII are deleted.
      Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
and in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the Development Credit
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the terms
Dutch Guilders and "f." mean the currency of the Netherlands.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Grant
      Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Grantee,
on the terms and conditions herein set forth or referred to, a grant in
Page  3
an amount of eight hundred thousand Dutch Guilders (f.800,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) Subject to Section 2.02 (b) below, the proceeds
of the Netherlands Grant may be withdrawn from the Netherlands Grant
Account in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Grantee and the Administrator.
      (b)   The Administrator shall not be obligated to make any payment
under this Agreement except to the extent it shall first have received
funds for the purpose from the Minister.
      Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree,
contracts for goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Netherlands Grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement (Renewable Resources Development
Project) between the Association and IREDA dated March 5, 1993 which is
hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as
if it were fully set forth herein, it being understood that the references
in said Schedule to the "Association" and the "Credit Account" shall be
deemed to be references to the Association acting as Administrator of the
Netherlands Grant and the Netherlands Grant Account, respectively.
      (b)   If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or
referred to in paragraph (a) above, no expenditures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Netherlands Grant, and the
Administrator may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Administrator under this Agreement, by notice
to the Grantee, cancel such amount of the Netherlands Grant as, in the
Administrator's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of
the proceeds of the Netherlands Grant.
      Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such
later date as the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall
promptly notify the Grantee of such later date.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein,
Articles III and IV of the Development Credit Agreement are hereby
incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as if
they were fully set forth herein, it being understood that all references
in said Articles III and IV to the "Association" shall be deemed to be
references to the Administrator of the Netherlands Grant under this
Agreement and all references to the "Credit" and the "Credit Account"
shall be deemed to be references to the Netherlands Grant and the
Netherlands Grant Account, respectively.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Remedies of the Administrator
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely, that
the right of the Grantee to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit shall
have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the Development Credit Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
                           Effectiveness
      Section 5.01. (a) This Agreement shall become effective upon its
execution by the parties.
      (b)   This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Netherlands
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have
fulfilled their obligations under this Agreement.
Page  4
                            ARTICLE VI
        Representation; Transfer of Rights and Obligations
      Section 6.01. The Secretary, any Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary, Under Secretary of the Department
of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Grantee is
designated as the representative of the Grantee for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Grantee:
            The Secretary to the Government of  India
            Department of Economic Affairs
            Ministry of Finance
            New Delhi, India
            Cable address:                  Telex:
                  ECOFAIRS                  953-3166175 FINE IN
                  New Delhi
      For the Administrator:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                  Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
      Section 6.03. In accordance with the Arrangements, the rights and
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be transferred
to the Minister. The Grantee accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the
Administrator to the Grantee to that effect, the Minister shall, ipso
facto, from the date specified in such notice, be substituted in all
rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement as if the
Minister had been an original party to this Agreement, without any further
action or formality required on the part of any party, and from such date
the Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as a party
under this Agreement.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INDIA
                  By /s/  N. Valluri
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     as Administrator of the Netherlands Grant
                  By /s/  Heinz Vergin
Page  5
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia
                                SCHEDULE
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Netherlands Grant
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Netherlands Grant, the allocation of the amounts of
the Netherlands Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures
for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Netherlands Grant
                          Allocated (Ex-                    % of
                         pressed in Dutch               Expenditures
   Category             Guilder Equivalent)            to be Financed
(1)  Equipment and           f.300,000                 100% of foreign
     materials                                         expenditures, 100%
                                                       of local expenditures
                                                       (ex-factory cost) and
                                                       80% of local expen-
                                                       ditures for other
                                                       item procured
                                                       locally
(2)  Consultants'            f.500,000                 100%
     services
(3)  Unallocated             _________
      TOTAL                  f.800,000
                             =========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Grantee for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Grantee; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Grantee or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Grantee.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of f.75,000, may be made on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 1, 1994.
4.    The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Netherlands Grant
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures for goods and services under contracts not exceeding $50,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall
specify by notice to the Grantee.
