Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
GET GRANT NUMBER 28633 IN
Global Environment Trust Fund
Grant Agreement
(Renewable Resources Development Project)
between
INDIAN RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY LIMITED
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Global Environment
Trust Fund
Dated March 5, 1993
GET GRANT NUMBER 28633 IN
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 5, 1993, between INDIAN RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT 
AGENCY LIMITED, a company registered under the Companies Act, 1956 of India (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting as Trustee 
of grant funds provided by Participants of the Global Environment Facility into the 
Global Environment Trust Fund (GET) (the Trustee).
WHEREAS: (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank) pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the Executive Directors of 
the Bank (the Resolution), established the Global Environment Facility consisting of 
the GET, Cofinancing Arrangements with the GET and the Ozone Projects Trust Fund, to 
assist in the protection of the global environment and promote thereby environmentally 
sound and sustainable economic development;
(B) 
certain members of the Bank (the Participants) have provided resources by 
way of grants into the GET and the Participants have requested and the Bank has 
agreed, to administer such grant funds as Trustee, for the purposes of, and in 
accordance with, provisions of the Resolution;
Page  2
(C) 
India, acting by its President (India) and the Recipient, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
the Development Credit Agreement, have requested assistance from the resources of the 
GET in the financing of the Project, and the Trustee has determined that such 
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Resolution;
(D)
by a loan agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Tamil Nadu 
Newsprint and Papers Limited (TNPL), the Bank has agreed to make a loan to TNPL in an 
aggregate principal amount of $75,000,000 (the TNPL Loan) to assist TNPL in financing 
of Part A of the Project on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
(E)
India has also requested the International Development Association (the 
Association) to provide additional financing towards the financing of the Project and 
by an agreement of even date herewith between India and the Association, the 
Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount 
equivalent to eighty one million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
81,600,000) (the Credit);
(F)
India intends to contract from DANIDA a loan (the DANIDA Loan) to assist 
in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the 
DANIDA Loan Agreement) to be entered into between India and DANIDA;
(G)
India has requested from Switzerland a grant (the Swiss Grant) to assist 
in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the 
Swiss Grant Agreement) to be entered into between India and Switzerland; and
(H)
the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GET Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), 
(11), (15), (18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 [except paragraphs (a), (b), (d) and 
(f)], 6.03 [except sub-paragraph (e)], 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii) Sections 9.01 (a), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01, 12.02 (a) and (c), 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
Page  3
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 
to read as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and 
the 
symbol "SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by 
the 
International Monetary Fund in accordance with its 
Articles of 
Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and 
the 
last use of such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means 
the Trustee except 
that in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" 
shall also include the 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
acting in its own capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Recipient, not a member of the Bank, 
and in 
this context, all references to the "Guarantor" and 
the "Guarantee 
Agreement" in the General Conditions shall 
be disregarded;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GET Grant; and
(vi)
the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GET Grant Account.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"TNPL" means the Tamil Nadu Newsprint and Papers Limited;
(b)
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Bank and TNPL for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and 
such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement;
(c)
"Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith 
between India and the Association for the Project, as such agreement may be amended 
from time to time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to 
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as applied 
to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Development 
Credit Agreements;
(d)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and the 
Recipient, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(e)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by the Recipient from 
the proceeds of the GET Grant for a windfarm or SPV scheme to be carried out under 
Part B of the Project; and
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The GET Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree\1fment, the GET Grant in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million five hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,500,000). \0c
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GET 
Grant may be withdrawn from the GET Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  4
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, 
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for 
carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
in dollars a special deposit account in the State Bank of India on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Trustee including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999, or such later date as 
the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out or cause to be carried out Part B of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, admini- 
strative and engineering practices and with due regard to ecological and environmental 
factors; and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Trustee and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall: (i) carry out Part B of the Project, in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; and (ii) make the Sub-loans 
on terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for Part B of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
related statements) and the records and accounts for the 
Special 
Account for each financial year audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to 
the Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than nine months after the end of each such 
year, 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such 
detail as the Trustee shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information con\1fcerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Trustee shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GET Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
Page  5
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last 
withdrawal from the GET Grant Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Trustee's representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Trustee
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Recipient shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Recipient to perform any of its obligations under this 
Agreement; and
(b) 
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds 
of the DANIDA Loan or Swiss Grant for the financing 
of the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled 
or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the agreement 
providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable 
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee 
that: 
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Recipient 
to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and 
(B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the 
Recipient from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Recipient under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi- tional condition to 
the effectiveness of the GET Grant Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) 
of the General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness 
of the Development Credit Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to 
the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GET Grant has 
Page  6
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Managing Director of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Indian Renewable Energy Development
  Agency Limited
3 Ring Road
New Delhi 110014, India
Cable address:
Telex:
ALTERNATE-ND-14
  85061
New Delhi
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
        197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
        248423 (RCA),
   64145 (WUI) or
         82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT as Trustee of
  the Global Environment Trust Fund
By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
Regional Vice President
South Asia
INDIAN RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT
  AGENCY LIMITED
By /s/ N. Valluri
Authorized Representative
Page  7
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GET Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GET Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GET Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the
    GET Grant Allocated
     % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category 
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed 
(1)
Equipment and
12,780,000
100% of foreign
materials
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
80% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(2)
Consultants'
 2,140,000
100%
 services and
 training
(3)
 Unallocated
 3,580,000
 _________
TOTAL
18,500,000
==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of India for goods or services supplied from the territory of 
any country other than that of India; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of India 
or for goods or services supplied from the territory of India.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GET Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of 
this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to 
the Trustee for deposit into the GET Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so 
used or the portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
SCHEDULE 2
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GET Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
Page  8
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the GET Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall 
specify.
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Trustee the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the 
payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Trustee shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GET Grant Account and 
deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall 
have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been made out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee from the GET Grant Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GET Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GET Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into 
by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GET Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an 
Page  9
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified.  Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Trustee into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GET Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
