Report No. PID9314
Project Name                     Macedonia, Former Yugoslav Republic of- (@)
Macedonia Community Development and Culture
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Other Social Sector
Project ID                       MKPE63577
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF FYR MACEDONIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF CULTURE AND PROJECT
COORDINATION UNIT
Ministry of Culture
Ilindenska bb
91000 Skopje,
Contact Person: Ana Efremova
Tel: (389 91) 128 042
Email: aefremova@yahoo.com
Environment Category             F
Date PID Prepared                November 30, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         March 2001
Projected Board Date             May 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Cultural Assets Conservation and Management: The Ministry of Culture and
its six Institutes for the Protection of Cultural Heritage are the
institutions responsible for protecting national cultural assets. The
Government has recently redrafted heritage legislation and is considering
some form of institutional restructuring. In 1999 the number of staff in
the Ministry of Culture was reduced as part of the overall public sector
reform process. The Ministry has shown its willingness to work with the
private and voluntary sectors in its museum, publications, and other
activities. The Government places importance on its cultural assets and
has asked the World Bank for assistance in improving their management and
conservation.Among the chief sector issues are: determining priorities for
Government spending; developing policies and incentives that promote
cultural assets conservation and compatible adaptive use; integrating
cultural heritage conservation into overall urban and land use planning
decisions; securing non-budget sources of financing for cultural asset
conservation; and involving the voluntary and private sectors in the
process.Tourism: The structure of the tourism industry has changed
radically since independence in 1990 when visitors' levels were high and
tourism contributed a considerable amount of foreign currency earnings.
The Government is grappling with these new sets of circumstances but has
yet to formulate a coherent strategy. Macedonia is now considered to be in
a "bad neighborhood" and tourist numbers have fallen drastically. Today
visitors are more likely to travel individually (including members of
humanitarian delegations or peace keeping forces) than in large groups;
the duration of stays has decreased from 7-14 days to 4-6 days.
Information on the structure of the industry is lacking, as is a clear
view of the country's comparative advantages, regional position and target



market.Major sector issues are: formulation of a realistic strategy for
domestic and international tourism development; definition of Government
role in promoting tourism and creating an enabling environment for private
sector investment; determining and meeting infrastructure requirements,
including in-country transport, road access, water supply and sanitation
in tourist areas; raising standards of accommodations and services;
identification of potential markets, such as adventure tourists, and
marketing strategies; and the role of community based tourism.Small and
Medium Size Enterprise Development. The Government is aware that
promoting start up businesses is essential to resuming growth and creating
employment. The EU and the UK Know How Fund are financing SME projects
that provide advisory and business training services through regional
centers and new businesses are now coming on stream. There are few micro
credit facilities in the country, although USAID and PHARE run pilot
microcredit schemes. The Central Bank believes that existing commercial
banks can provide a micro-credit window, yet typically commercial banks
require more collateral than those who need access to microcredit can
provide. Access to capital for start up businesses remains a serious
need.The sector issues in this case are: increase access to and
availability of microcredit schemes/facilities and revise the lending
criteria of commercial banks.
2. Objectives
The main project development objective is to establish conditions that
facilitate poverty reduction, socioeconomic development, and community
development by leveraging one of the country's untapped resources, its
cultural assets, to create culture-based industries (notably handicrafts
and community-based tourism) in areas adjacent to cultural heritage sites,
while improving the management of cultural assets, particularly at the
local level.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
[Section not required for a LIL.]
4. Description
The primary activity to be funded under the project is the development of
sets of interrelated sub-projects clustered in and around a limited number
of communities possessing sites and other assets of cultural importance.
These activities and sites will be selected through a competitive,
demand-driven process. Criteria for selection will be designed to
encourage synergies and to promote poverty reduction. These sub-projects
will be supported with capacity building measures to help develop
community-based site and business management skills. Thus the first
project component will be integrated site development. However, for such
measures at the community level to have maximum effect, national level
capacity also needs to be built. Hence the inclusion of a component for
institutional development at the national level.Component 1: Integrated
Site DevelopmentThis component will seek to develop sets of cultural
industries in several pilot sites through priority investments,
conservation measures, and local level capacity building. Sites will be
selected following a nation-wide public outreach campaign to solicit
sub-project ideas. A prequalification process will then select possible
candidates for assistance in developing proposals. Sub-projects will then
be selected competitively in accordance with criteria designed to maximize
the impact in terms of poverty reduction and community development and to
- 2 -



produce groups of projects clustered around appropriate communities. The
selected communities will then receive assistance in the development of
site management plans and managerial skills. The process will be designed
to allow for learning and correction over the course of project
preparation and implementation. To this end, it will begin with an
initial pilot site selected during project preparation to test the
approach. Procedures and terms of reference will then be revised to
reflect the lessons of this first experience before being implemented more
broadly under the project. All sites will be subject to social
assessment, assessment of needs related to site management, and
environmental screening (and assessment where needed).This process will
result in clusters of sub-project activities of three main types:
handicrafts; community-based tourism, and site improvements and
conservation measures. Successful applicants will receive grant funding
and technical assistance to carry out their proposed activities. At each
site, successful applicants will be expected to work together with each
other and with other community members. In addition to financing
successful proposals, the project will support the development and
implementation of community-based site management/community development
plans at each beneficiary site. These plans would define necessary
improvements and conservation measures, inter alia: improved site access
and parking facilities, circulation systems, presentation and
interpretation, visitor facilities, conservation and protective works, and
training. These communities will receive assistance in marketing their
cultural assets.Pilot site development will be supported through a set of
capacity building activities at the local level. These will include: (i)
promotion and support of new or existing community-based organizations
(CBOs) and local non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to carry out local
management of culture related activities; (ii) training of local
governments for local planning and management of cultural sites; and (iii)
assistance in promoting partnerships between local-level communities and
among associations, the private sector and NGOs. In regard to
handicrafts, technical assistance will build on the national level
handicrafts assessment (see Component 2 below) to support: (i) an analysis
of existing craft production and craft producers as well as existing and
potential markets; (ii) product line development; (iii) the development of
market strategies; and (iv) provision of related technical support
services including the preparation of business plans, business advice.In
regard to community-based tourism, technical assistance will build upon
the national level tourism assessment (see Component 2 below) to support:
(i) the assessment of local tourism resources and the tourism market; (ii)
the development of marketing strategies; (iii) investment in critical
tourism infrastructure and services, by facilitating private sector
investments and access to existing micro-credit schemes for new entrants
into the tourism industry; and (iv) the provision of related technical
support services including the preparation of well designed and
informative tourism literature, training in areas such as guiding and
hospitality, business advice for small and medium size enterprises.
Component 2: Institutional development at the national levelThis component
will support the local level activities by: providing needed information
for the successful mobilization of cultural assets in support of community
development; facilitating the marketing of Macedonia's cultural assets
(with particular attention to the project sites); and coordinating project
implementation.In order to support the development of local level
activities, three studies will be carried out: (1) a national inventory of
- 3-



cultural sites, utilizing community participation, will be developed as a
multipurpose (national and regional) planning tool; (2) a handicrafts
assessment will determine the scope of existing handicrafts and make
recommendations for future development; and (3) a tourism assessment will
examine the current organization, performance, needs, and opportunities
for the sector.To facilitate the marketing of Macedonia's cultural assets,
after site development activities are well under way, a marketing strategy
will be designed and implemented. As part of this process, industry
professionals from Europe and/or the United States will be invited to
visit project sites with a view to brokering arrangements for tours to
subsequently include these sites on their itineraries.To coordinate
project implementation, a project coordination mechanism will be
established in the Ministry of Culture (see below). Among the tasks of
this mechanism will be monitoring and evaluation. The project will
provide training for the project team.
1. Integrated site development
2. Institutional development at the national level
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 7
6. Implementation
The project is to be implemented over a period of four years. The primary
implementing institution will be the Ministry of Culture. Other key
government agencies will be involved through their participation in a
project Steering Committee. After reviewing options in other government
agencies or as a stand alone entity, it was decided to establish a small
Project Coordination Unit in the Ministry of Culture for the purpose of
preparing the project. These arrangements will be subject to further
examination during project preparation in order to achieve greatest
efficiency.The main responsibility for providing overall guidance about
the scope and policy underpinnings of the project will be taken by a
project Steering Committee. The Steering Committee is to be chaired by
the Ministry of Culture and will comprise representatives of: the Ministry
of Culture (2), Ministry of Economy (2, covering the Departments of
Tourism and Small and Medium Enterprises), the Ministry of Finance, the
Ministry of Ecology (2), the Ministry of Transportation and Communications
(2), the Ministry of Local Government, the Macedonian Orthodox Church, the
Faculty of Tourism in Ohrid, the Macedonian National Committee of the
International Council on Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS), the Association of
Craftsmen and Other Individual Businessmen of Skopje, and the State
Institute for the Projetection of Cultural Heritage. The Steering
Committee will review and provide guidance for the development of a policy
framework that will strengthen the participation of the non-governmental
organizations and the private sector in heritage conservation. It is
expected that the implementation of community related activities in the
selected pilot sites will be sub-contracted to NGOs. The Soros Foundation
has, in fact, shown an interest in taking the lead in community based
activities. Further investigation of NGO and CBO capacity and interests
will be carried out during project preparation. Institutional and
implementation arrangements will be characterized by partnership with
existing successful programs (e.g., micro-credit and business support
through PHARE and USAID).
-4-



7. Sustainability
Long term economic renewal is the objective of the project. It will be
supported by capacity building and devolving of responsibility to the
local level.Capacity building at the local level as well as at the
national level will be key to achieving long term viability. Technical
assistance and training will be carefully designed so as to ensure
post-project continuity. Sound business practices will be introduced as
part of the enterprise support activities. Emphasis on the participatory
processes and community involvement should increase the sustainability of
activities at the local level by promoting a sense of community
ownership.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Few related projects have been implemented in Macedonia and none with the
same focus on community development. So there is very little direct
experience from which to draw lessons. Nevertheless the new ECA Culture
and Development Strategy suggests several cautionary considerations: the
need for adequate initial analysis of needs, opportunities, and
institutional capacity; the need to weigh the benefits and costs of
partnership arrangements; and the need for realistic supervision budgets.
Building local level capacity and ownership will be central to project
success, as other social development projects in the ECA region have
demonstrated. The project proposes a pilot approach that builds in
mechanisms for ongoing evaluation and modification during the course of
the project.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  No major environmental issues are associated with
the activities proposed under the project. However, possible concerns
could include environmental health hazards from crafts activities and
adverse environmental impacts as a result of changes in site management or
increases in tourist visits. Given that specific activities will only be
identified in the course of project implementation, a mechanism for
screening and assessing negative environmental impacts as well as
developing mitigation plans will be developed during project
preparation.Key stakeholders include (but are not necessarily limited to):
beneficiaries of project funding, community members at project sites,
local government members and employees, and NGOs/CBOs working with (or
that will work with) other stakeholders.
11. Contact Point:
Task Managers
Emilia Battaglini and Mark Woodward
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473-3232/202 473-8112
Fax: 202 614-0696
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
-5-



1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending February 2, 2001.
- 6 -



