Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22272-MK
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4 MILLION (US$5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
FOR A
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND CULTURE PROJECT (LIL)
May 31, 2001
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 3, 2001)
Currency Unit = Macedonian Denar (MKD)
1 MKD = USSO.0156
USSI = 64.045 MKD
FISCAL YEAR
January -- December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                                Country Assistance Strategy
CBO                                Community Based Organization
COE                                Council of Europe
CPAR                               Country Procurement Assessment Report
CQ                                 Consultants' Qualifications
EMP                                Environmental Management Plan
FYR Macedonia                      Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
GIS                                Geographical Information System
GPN                                General Procurement Notice
ICB                                Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICOMOS                             Intemational Council on Monuments and Sites
ICR                                Implementation Completion Report
IDA                                Intemational Development Association
IFC                                Intemational Finance Corporation
IS                                Intemational Shopping
ITFCSD                             Italian Trust Fund for Culture and Sustainable Development
LCS                                Least-Cost Selection
LIL                                Learning and Innovation Loan/Credit
M&E                                Monitoring and Evaluation
NBF                                Not Bank-Financed
NCB                                National Competitive Bidding
NGO                                Non-Govemmental Organization
NS                                 National Shopping
PCU                                Project Coordination Unit
PRSP                               Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QBS                                Quality-Based Selection
QCBS                               Quality and Cost-Based Selection
SFB                                Selection under a Fixed Budget
SME                                Small and Medium Enterprise
TA                                 Technical Assistance/Assistant
USAID                              United States Agency for Intemational Development
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:    Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Director:    Kevin M. Cleaver
Co-Task Team Leaders:    Mark Woodward and Emilia Battaglini



FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND CULTURE PROJECT (LIL)
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                          Page
1. Project development objective                                                          2
2. Key performance indicators                                                              2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project         2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                              3
3. Leaming and development issues to be addressed by the project                           4
4. Learning and innovation expectations                                                    4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                     5
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                           7
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements                                                  8
D. Project Rationale
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                               9
2. Financial                                                                               9
3. Technical                                                                              10
4. Institutional                                                                          11
5. Environmental                                                                          12
6. Social                                                                                 13
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                     16
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                        16
2. Critical risks                                                                         17
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                         17
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                                17
2. Other                                                                                  17



H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           18
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          18
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           19
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     23
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          35
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                    36
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                38
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        39
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      50
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    51
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   52
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             55
Annex 11: Monitoring and Evaluation for Institutional Learning                            56
MAP(S)
IBRD 31410



FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND CULTURE PROJECT (LIL)
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSSD
Date: May 31, 2001                                Team Leader: Mark C. Woodward
Country Manager/Director: Christiaan J. Poortman  Sector Manager/Director: Alexandre Marc
Project ID: P063577                               Sector(s): MC - Community Action Program
Lending Instrument: Leaming and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s): Social Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit    [ Grant       [ Guarantee       [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $5.00
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                          Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.5%                              Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m): Source                                Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        0.66           0.00           0.66
IDA                                                             0.00           5.00           5.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                               0.42           0.00           0.42
MOFA - DEV. COOP. DEPARTMENT - ITALY                            0.00           0.04           0.04
Total:                                                          1.08            5.04          6.12
Borrower: FYR MACEDONIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF CULTURE AND PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT
Address: Ministry of Culture
Ilindenska bb
91000 Skopje,
Contact Person: Ana Efremova
Tel: 389 (0)2 128 042               Fax: 389 (0)2 127 112               Email: aefremova@yahoo.com
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
Annual    0.93         1.40      1.36        1.31
Cumulative    0.93        2.33       3.69       5.00
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 08/01/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
Ol.S PAU F1-  HA', N4-, :5



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex I)
The main project development objective is to establish conditions that facilitate community-based
socioeconomic development by leveraging one of the country's untapped resources, its cultural assets, to
create culture-based industries (notably handicrafts and community-based tourism) in areas adjacent to
cultural heritage sites, while improving the management of cultural assets, particularly at the local level.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
*   Community associations created/supported at project sites remain viable.
* Municipal governments work effectively with local communities.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: R2000-80 [IFC/R2000-79]          Date of latest CAS discussion: June 13, 2000
Macedonia is situated at the geographic crossroads of the Balkans, Central Europe and the Mediterranean.
Emerging from the dissolution of the former Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia and the impact of war in
neighboring countries with high levels of poverty, the country lags behind others in the region and suffers
from uneven internal development. Macedonia is short of obvious resources to support socioeconomic
development. However, its unique cultural heritage, the visible evidence of its multicultural origins, is an
asset which may be mobilized for socioeconomic regeneration and development.
However, often these assets are deteriorating as a result of a serious lack of investment in conservation and
management, the contraction of the Macedonian economy due to conflict in the Balkans, overreliance on the
public sector, and lack of experience in transforming these resources into marketable assets. This project
intends to lay the foundations for reversing this process and, in so doing, utilize them in support of
community-driven socioeconomic development.
In this context, the project will help to achieve the following CAS goals:
(i) Promote private sector growth and job creation by creating new poles of visitor and investment
attraction at pilot cultural sites in less advantaged areas. This will be done primarily by supporting such
cultural enterprises as handicrafts production and cultural tourism based on (a) defining participatory local
development strategies; (b) revitalizing and diversifying culture-based products; (c) providing business
advice and skill training services; (d) facilitating access to capital for start up businesses through existing
micro-credit and other financing instruments; and (e) supporting marketing of local products.
(ii) Enhance the efficiency of the state, local government, and communities in managing cultural assets
through joint activities with local communities and associations and public/private partnerships that (a)
develop appropriate, participatory forms of governance for the development of local development strategies
and for participation in the management of cultural assets; (b) build project management skills at local and
central level; (c) increase technical capacity; and (d) improve the condition and utilization of cultural
assets.
(iii) Alleviate povertv by giving preference to pilot sites in less advantaged areas of the country and to
project activities that create jobs and revenue streams for those living in poverty regardless of ethnic origin.
The principle underlying these activities is to create synergies between site management and culture-based
- 2 -



activities at pilot sites, thereby developing new activities, including the diversification of local cultural
enterprises and tourism, that will result in employment opportunities for local communities.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Cultural Assets Conservation and Management: The Ministry of Culture and its six Institutes for the
Protection of Cultural Heritage are the institutions responsible for protecting national cultural assets. The
Government has recently redrafted heritage legislation and is considering some form of institutional
restructuring. In 1999 the number of staff in the Ministry of Culture was reduced as part of the overall
public sector reform process. The Ministry has shown its willingness to work with the private and
voluntary sectors in its museum, publications, and other activities. The Government places importance on
its cultural assets and has asked the World Bank for assistance in improving their management and
conservation.
Among the chief sector issues are: determining priorities for Govermuent spending; developing policies and
incentives that promote cultural assets conservation and compatible adaptive use; integrating cultural
heritage conservation into overall urban and land use planning decisions; securing non-budget sources of
financing for cultural asset conservation; involving the voluntary and private sectors in the process; and
developing appropriate forms of governance for such collaboration.
Tourism: The structure of the tourism industry has changed radically since independence in 1990 when
visitors' levels were high and tourism contributed a considerable amount of foreign currency earnings. The
Govemment is grappling with these new sets of circumstances but has yet to formulate a coherent strategy.
Conflict in neighboring countries has led to drastic reductions in tourist visits. Today visitors are more
likely to travel individually (including members of humanitarian delegations or peace keeping forces) than
in large groups; the duration of stays has decreased from 7-14 days to 4-6 days. Infonmation on the
structure of the industry is lacking, as is a clear view of the country's comparative advantages, regional
position, and target market.
Major sector issues are: formulation of a realistic strategy for domestic and international tourism
development that would promote broad-based local development; definition of the appropriate Government
role in promoting tourism and creating an enabling environment for private sector investment; determining
and meeting infrastructure requirements, including in-country transport, road access, water supply and
sanitation in tourist areas; raising standards of accommodations and services; identification of potential
markets, such as ecological, cultural, and adventure tourists, and marketing strategies; and the role of
community-based tourism.
Microenterprise Development. The Government is aware that promoting start up businesses is essential to
resuming growth and creating employment. The EU and the UK Know How Fund are financing
microenterprise projects that provide advisory and business training services through regional centers and
new businesses are now coming on stream. There are few microcredit facilities in the country, although
USAID and PHARE run pilot microcredit schemes. These schemes are over subscribed and are growing
rapidly, but do seem to be able to keep pace with demand. The Central Bank believes that existing
commercial banks can provide a microcredit window, yet typically commercial banks require more
collateral than those who need access to microcredit can provide. Access to capital for start up businesses
remains a serious need.
The sector issues in this case are: increase access to and availability of microcredit schemes/facilities as
well as developing entrepreneurial and business management skills.
- 3 -



3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project:
The project will concentrate on four interrelated sets of issues: improving the contribution of cultural assets
to the economy and well-being of local communities; involving local communities in managing their own
socioeconomic development, particularly with respect to cultural protection and promotion; diversifying
and expanding the tourist offering of Macedonia; and improving cultural conservation. Intervention in
these areas will be supported by a comprehensive participatory monitoring and evaluation system, designed
to facilitate improvements and adjustments in implementation to keep the project on track, at both the local
and national levels. The project is conceived as a Leaming and Innovation Credit (LIL) because of the
experimental nature of the project approach, which requires flexibility to facilitate institutional learning and
subsequent modification and improvement of project processes throughout the course of the project.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
IN Economic     Z Technical    Z Social          Z Participation
E Financial     1 Institutional  Z Environmental E Other
Economic:     Monitoring and evaluation will assess and quantify, the economic benefits that accrue to
communities at project sites.
Technical:    The project will strengthen the national inventory of cultural assets, to be used as a
planning tool at both the national and local levels. The inventory will be consistent with
the Council of Europe Core Data Standard approach, GIS-based, and will allow for the
recording of a broad range of cultural sites, production, and characteristics.
Institutional:   The project will test methods of strengthening local-level institutions, national-local level
coordination, and governance at both levels. In particular it will do so through the
implementation of a comprehensive participatory monitoring and institutional learning
system.
Social:       Social assessment will be carried out at all project sites inter alia to facilitate the
maximization of the community development impact and ensure equitable treatment of all
community groups.
Environmental: The project is expected to produce lessons as to how to motivate communities to preserve
the natural and cultural environment. Although negative environmental impacts are not
expected as a result of project activities, a suitable environmental screening mechanism
will be set up under the project. This mechanism is expected to produce lessons regarding
the potential environmental risks which may be associated with the mobilization of cultural
assets to support community-based socioeconomic development. Subsequent
environmental assessment (if needed) would produce lessons about how to mitigate such
impacts.
Participation:  The participatory processes to be embodied in the project are expected to produce lessons
regarding how to mobilize citizens for community development in ethnically diverse
transition economies such as Macedonia, which should facilitate subsequent development
efforts.
-4 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The primary activity to be funded under the project is the development of sets of interrelated sub-projects
clustered in and around a limited number of communities possessing sites and other assets of cultural
importance. These activities and sites will be selected through a competitive, demand-driven process.
Criteria for selection are designed (and over the course of the project will be refined) to encourage synergies
and to promote community development and poverty reduction. These sub-projects will be supported with
capacity building measures to help develop community-based site and business management skills. Thus
the first project component will be integrated site development. However, for such measures at the
community level to have maximum effect, national level capacity also needs to be built. Hence the
inclusion of a component for institutional development at the national level.
Component 1: Integrated Site Development
This component will seek to develop sets of cultural industries and actions in several pilot sites through
priority investments, conservation measures, and local level capacity building. Sites will be selected by the
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) together with the Steering Committee and in consultation with the World
Bank, following a nation-wide public outreach campaign to solicit sub-project ideas. A prequalification
process will then select possible candidates for assistance in developing proposals. Sub-projects will then
be selected competitively in accordance with criteria designed to maximize the impact in terms of
community development and poverty reduction and to produce groups of projects clustered around
appropriate communities. Final responsibilty for sub-project selection will reside with the Steering
Committee, in consultation with the PCU and the World Bank. The selected communities will then receive
assistance in the development of site management plans and managerial skills. The process is designed to
allow for leaming and correction over the course of project preparation and implementation. To this end, it
begins with an initial pilot site, the town of Berovo in Eastern Macedonia, selected during project
preparation to test the approach. Procedures and terms of reference will then be revised to reflect the
lessons of this first experience before being implemented more broadly under the project. This process will
result in clusters of sub-project activities of three main types: handicrafts; community-based tourism, and
site improvements and conservation measures. Successful applicants will receive grant funding and
technical assistance to carry out their proposed activities. Other appropriate applicants will receive
assistance in gaining access to existing microcredit programs. At each site, successful applicants will be
expected to work together with each other and with other community members.
In addition to financing successful proposals, the project will support the development and implementation
of community-based site management and community development plans at each beneficiary site. These
plans would define necessary improvements and conservation measures, inter alia: improved site access
and parking facilities, circulation systems, presentation and interpretation, visitor facilities, conservation
and protective works, and training. They will be informed by social and economic assessment, assessment
of needs related to site management, and environmental screening (and assessment where needed), which
will be carried out at all project sites. These communities will also receive assistance in marketing their
cultural assets.
Pilot site development will be supported through a set of capacity building activities at the local level.
These will include: (i) promotion and support of new or existing community-based organizations (CBOs)
and local nongovemmental organizations (NGOs) to carry out local management of culture related
activities; (ii) training of local govemments for local planning and management of cultural sites; (iii)
assistance in promoting partnerships between local-level communities and among associations, the private
- 5-



sector (notably enterprises and individuals with skills related to the preservation of Macedonian cultural
heritage) and NGOs; and (iv) the development of marketing strategies. All these activities will be
monitored and supervised by the PCU.
Component 2: Institutional development at the national level
Institutional development at the national level in the area of culture is being supported by other
international agencies, in particular, the Council of Europe. Therefore, this component is limited to
activities critical to the successful implementation of the integrated site development component. To this
end it will support the local level activities by: providing needed information for the successful mobilization
of cultural assets in support of community development; facilitating the marketing of cultural assets at
project sites; and coordinating project implementation.
In order to support the development of local level activities, three activities will be carried out: (1) the
existing national inventory of cultural sites will be further developed as a multipurpose (national and
regional) planning tool, by making it more accessible and operationally useful and by integrating
community participation approaches; (2) a handicrafts assessment and action plan will determine the scope
of existing handicrafts and make recommendations for future product and business development (including
practical issues that may impede handicraft development, related to design, production, financing,
marketing, and delivery); and (3) a tourism assessment and action plan will examine the current
organization, performance, needs, and opportunities for the sector with regard to cultural and eco-tourism
potential. These three activities will inform the work of the project's Steering Committee as well as the
local Working Groups to be set up at project sites. They will also contribute to on-going work at the
national policy level sponsored by the Council of Europe.
To facilitate the marketing of Macedonia 's cultural assets, after site development activities are well
under way, a marketing strategy will be designed (under the auspices of the Ministries of Culture and
Economy) and implemented to target both domestic and international markets (and linked to the local level
strategies under the first component). As part of this process, professionals from the eco-cultural tourism
industry will be invited to visit project sites with a view to brokering arrangements for tours to
subsequently include these sites on their itineraries.
To coordinate project implementation, a project coordination mechanism will be established in the
Ministry of Culture (see below). Among the tasks of this mechanism will be monitoring and evaluation.
The project will provide training for the project team.
Indicative              Bank-       % of
Component                     Sector         Costs      % of    financing    Bank-
(IUS$M)    Total      (US$M)  financing
1. Integrated Site Development       Non-Sector            5.20        85.0       4.30       86.0
Specific
2. Institutional Development at the   Institutional         0.92       15.0       0.70       14.0
National Level                        Development
Total Project Costs                      6.12      100.0       5.00       100.0
Front-end fee                       0.00        0.0       0.00        0.0
Total Financing Required                        6.12      100.0        5.00      100.0
-6 -



2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project is to be implemented over a period of four years.
The primary implementing institution will be the Ministry of Culture. Other key government agencies will
be involved through their participation in a project Steering Committee. After reviewing options in other
government agencies or as a stand alone entity, it was decided to establish a small Project Coordination
Unit in the Ministry of Culture for the purpose of preparing the project.
An incipient Project Coordination Unit has been established in the Ministry of Culture for the purpose of
preparing the project and will be expanded to meet project needs prior to effectiveness. The Project
Coordination Unit is managed by the Director, a member of the staff of the Ministry of Culture, appointed
by the Minister. If the Ministry would like her to continue her other duties within the Ministry, then the
addition of a Project Manager, who would be a fixed term staff member and would report to the PCU
Director, could be envisaged. The PCU will be composed of a Procurement Specialist, a Secretary, an
Institutional Learning/Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, a Community Development Specialist, and a
Cultural Assets Specialist. Initially these latter two positions will be part time. Once the project expands
beyond the pilot site it is expected that an additional Community Development Specialist would be needed.
This range of expertise will allow the PCU to build community capacity for cultural asset preservation and
promote tourism, as well as to monitor and learn from its experiences in a systematic way.
Day to day project responsibilities of the Project Coordination Unit will include:
*   Procurement of goods, services (including consultants and experts) and equipment for the project;
*   Providing aggregated project reports on all components, both financial and nonfinancial, to the
Bank and to the Government;
*   Building and maintaining relations with organizations involved in project implementation and with
the Steering Committee and its members;
=   Day to day support for the implementation of the individual project components, including support
to teams of consultants responsible for implementation of various components and NGOs working
on community-based activities, providing them with equipment as specified in the their contracts,
and monitoring their performance;
:   Organizing training and seminars for individuals and groups involved in the implementation of
pilots and community based activities;
*   Coordination of the Public Outreach Campaign;
*   Coordination of monitoring and evaluation;
*   Dissemination of project performance results to stakeholders and the general public.
In the interests of simplicity, all financial transactions, including book-keeping, accounting, organization of
auditing, will be outsourced to the private sector. Similarly, the execution of social and needs assessments,
outreach campaigns, and technical assistance to project beneficiaries will be outsourced to
nongovernmental organizations. All financial transactions as well as technical assistance will be under the
responsiblity of the Project Coordination Unit, which will benefit from relevant capacity building and
training.
The Integrated Site Development Component is conceived as a three tiered process. At the top is the
nationalpolicy level, embodied in the Project's Steering Committee and its Working Group. In the middle
is the local strategy level, embodied in the Municipality and a Local Working Group. On the bottom is the
operational level, embodied in groups from the local population who develop specific activities
-7 -



(sub-projects). The Steering Committee makes policy regarding the overall directions of the project and
provides guidelines for the local level. The Municipality, with the support of its working group, produces
strategies for local development that inform the process of selecting sub-projects for financing. Groups of
people propose sub-projects for implementation. These are judged by the Local Working Group, under the
guidance of the Municipal Government and according to the guidelines produced at the national policy
level. There is thus continual interaction between the three levels.
The main responsibility for providing overall guidance about the scope and policy underpinnings of the
project will be taken by a project Steering Committee. The Steering Committee was established after
project identification, is chaired by the Ministry of Culture, and comprises representatives of: the Ministry
of Culture (2), Ministry of Economy (2, covering the Departments of Tourism and Small and Medium
Enterprises), the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Ecology (2), the Ministry of Transportation and
Communications (2), the Ministry of Local Government, the Macedonian Orthodox Church, the Faculty of
Tourism in Ohrid, the Macedonian National Committee of the International Council on Monuments and
Sites (ICOMOS), the Association of Craftsmen and Other Individual Businessmen of Skopje, and the State
Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage. The Steering Committee will review and provide guidance
for the development of a policy framework that will strengthen the participation of the nongovemmental
organizations and the private sector in heritage conservation. It is expected that the composition of the
steering committee will be periodically reviewed and may change over the course of the project (for
example, to bring in representatives from project sites).
For purposes of project preparation, the Steering Committee established a Working Group, composed of a
subset of members strengthened by some additional expertise. It is expected that the Steering Committee
will maintain this Working Group, or establish other working groups as needed, to support its
deliberations.
At each pilot site, the municipal government will establish a local working group, which will be responsible
for developing and articulating a local strategy for achieving national policy goals, in line with local
capabilities and potentials. It will also have the role of communicating widely to the community the type of
sub-projects called for and which are needed to fulfill the strategy. And it will have the task of selecting the
best sub-projects on a periodic basis, allocating the supporting grants, and monitoring the implementation
of project activities. The working group will be accountable to the Municipality and to the Steering
Committee for its implementation of the adopted strategy, and the achievement of measurable strategic
objectives; it would post periodic information about the decisions it has made.
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
The project embodies two types of monitoring and evaluation. First, the PCU will monitor those indicators
listed in Annex I and reflect these, in semiannual progress reports to be submitted to the Ministry of
Culture and the World Bank. To this end the Project Implementation Plan includes the standard annex to
the Bank's Project Supervision Reports, "Key Performance Indicators, Actual versus Target, which is to be
updated for both the semiannual reports and on the occasion of all supervision missions, the mid-term
review mission, and the implementation completion report mission. Given that these are qualitative
indicators, they will be ranked on a scale of highly satisfactory, satisfactory, unsatisfactory, or highly
unsatisfactory. These rankings will be justified in the reports.
Far more important, though, is the monitoring and evaluation integrated into the project's mechanisms for
institutional learning (described in further detail in Annex 11). As a LIL, this project embodies a strategic
approach to project objectives whereby the detailed up-front planning of the traditional project cycle is
replaced by a process approach in which guidelines guide the project to successful implementation, coupled
with learning mechanisms to ensure feedback and correction. In this context monitoring and evaluation
- 8 -



becomes critical. Monitoring and evaluation thus becomes more than simply a measuring device; it
becomes a critical tool for institutional learning.
This system will be implemented through three levels of management described above. All three levels will
engage in systematic and continual evaluation of both their own performance and that at the other levels.
This will result in constant adjustment to improve performance at all levels.
In order to facilitate the start-up, implementation, and evolution of this process of institutional learning, a
monitoring and evaluation specialist will be employed by the Project Coordination Unit. This specialist
will work extensively with project stakeholders to facilitate the design and implementation of the
institutional learning system at all three levels. This function will be supported by periodic technical
assistance over the course of the project. This work will be closely coordinated with the social assessment,
needs assessment, and outreach activities at the pilot sites. The PCU will report on the learning that has
been achieved in both the midterm review and implementation completion reports.
D. Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph B: 3.1
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
* Cost benefit     NPV=US$0.3 million; ERR = 18 %  (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
o Other (specify)
Since this is a demand driven project, it is impossible to determine beforehand exactly what activities will
be financed. Therefore this economic analysis is for the project pilot site (Berevo) and it is assumed that
the other sites will produce similar results. Also, in keeping with the nature of this project as a Learning
and Innovation Loan, further economic analysis is to be carried out as part of the monitoring and
evaluation component during project implementation.
The primary monetary benefits of the project will come from increased tourist visits and expenditures on
food and lodging (e.g., new bed and breakfasts serving traditional cuisine), new activities (e.g., guided
monument tours, horse back riding, cross country skiing), and new or revived handicrafts and local
products (e.g., wood carving, engraving, knitting, cheese production). Both domestic and international
tourist visits are expected to increase as site management plans are put in place and site promotion is
increased. An indicative cost benefit analysis at the Berevo pilot site yields an economic rate of return of
18 percent. This does not include the benefits from the projects's multiplier effect.
The project will generate substantial non-monetary benefits by encouraging sustainable management of
cultural and natural assets. These benefits have not been quantified. They include the option value and the
non-use value that the local, national, and international population place on the preservation of cultural
heritage and the conservation of natural resources. There will also be the additional benefit of community
learning and innovation resulting from demand driven project design.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
The project does not involve a financial intermediary or a revenue-earning entity implementing projects and
-9-



therefore a conventional financial analysis would not be applicable to this project. However, the integrated
site development component includes a mechanism for funding demand-driven sub-project-proposals which
will be established as part of project implementation. In those cases where the proposers are
revenue-earning entities, the financial soundness of their proposals will be a requirement for selection. For
example, associations of craftsmen requesting funding to help develop their cultural-based activities will be
requested to submit a business plan and, where feasible, financial statements of their existing activities.
Capacity for financial management at sub-project levels is expected to be weak and therefore adequate
training and technical assistance is built in the project design to assist sub-project proposers in the
preparation of sound business plans. Such financial support will be provided on a grant basis. Grant
financing is justified by the poverty in the country and the need to keep the project simple. Grants will only
go to associations, not to individuals.
Fiscal Impact:
The Government will provide funding (both in cash and in kind) to cover local expenditures (including
taxes) associated with sub-projects under the grant program that have a high cultural heritage preservation
value, as well as operational costs of the Project Coordination Unit. The total funding from Government
(including for taxes) is estimated at about US$660,000 over the life of the project. This includes about
US$432,000 for the grant program, US$154,000 for PCU operating costs, and about US$74,000 as an in
kind contribution.
Fiscal Year    2002         2003         2004         2005
Total Government   $80,000   $180,000     $200,000     $200,000
Funding
The recurrent cost implications following project completion will depend on whether or not the government
decides to continue to support related activities. Note that the sustainability of sub-projects supported under
the project should not be dependent on the continuation of government support (financial or technical).
3. Technical:
[For LIL, enter data if applicablc or 'Not Applicablc']
During project preparation three technical issues were identified to be addressed early on during project
implementation and have been incorporated into the "institutional development at the national level"
component. These are the need to:
*   identify and catalogue the country's cultural sites, according to the Council of Europe's Core Data
Standard and utilizing a GIS base and community involvement in this process, in order to raise
awareness, facilitate national and local level planning, and encourage their mobilization as assets to
promote socioeconomic development;
*   identify the scope of existing handicrafts production, the potential for the resurrection of dying
crafts traditions, and recommended measures to facilitate future development and marketing; and
*   assess the current organization, performance, needs, and potential for tourism, particularly in such
growing niche markets as cultural, ecological, and adventure tourism.
Draft terms of reference for all three studies have been prepared and may be found in the project file. In
- 10 -



the first two cases the work will be closely coordinated with related work proposed to be carried out by the
Council of Europe and USAID, respectively. In the latter case the work is expected to be carried out by a
consulting firm with funding from the Italian Trust Fund for Culture and Sustainable Development
(ITFCSD).
4. Institutional:
In many cases the Government of Macedonia possesses adequate expertise and capacity to carry out project
implementation. Nonetheless, weak capacity and limited experience with the Bank's heavy requirements for
project tendering, procurement, and implementation sometimes produce delays.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The primary implementing institution will be the Ministry of Culture, through the Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) that has been established both to implement this project and to ensure coordination with the
activities of other donors. While some capacity exists elsewhere, the Ministry of Culture has very little
experience with project implementation and even less with community-based and poverty alleviation
activities. Only recently has it begun to solicit private sector assistance. Therefore, the Ministry's capacity
to undertake the technical requirements to implement a World Bank funded project is limited. However, the
ministry has shown a commitment to approach the project through an interministerial working group and
has engaged directly in the planning and implementation of this project.
4.2 Project management:
Given the limited capacity in the Ministry of Culture, the Project Coordination Unit within the Ministry will
be kept small and simple, will outsource much of the project work (including financial management and
community outreach activities), and will benefit from technical assistance and training, particularly in the
areas of procurement and monitoring and evaluation.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The Project Coordination Unit will have overall responsibility for procurement under the project. Based on
the findings and recommendations of the assessment of the capacity of the implementation agency to
conduct procurement, the Borrower will undertake the following action plan:
(i) A Procurement Officer with suitable educational background and experience in International
Procurement, preferably familiar with World Bank procurement procedures and guidelines, will be
appointed on a competitive basis, in the PCU as part of the activities financed under the PPF
advance.
(ii) Immediately after project approval the Bank staff will prepare a procurement book containing all
procurement related documents, including Standard Bidding Documents, both in paper and
electronic copies, and send it to the PCU.
(iii) Around credit effectiveness, a project launch workshop will be held for the PCU staff and involved
agencies in project implementation. During this project launch workshop adequate time (a
minimum of three days ) will be spent on procurement training of the PCU staff. During this
project launch workshop, the contents of the procurement book will be discussed.
(iv) The Director and the procurement officer will be given additional training in Turin or in
Washington to enhance their knowledge of procurement. They should also attend seminars offered
- 1 1 -



by the World Bank at regional locations.
(v) A computerized procurement monitoring system will be set up with PPF financing and and
continue to be used during implementation of the credit.
(vi) During supervision missions, the conduct of procurement under the project will be reviewed in light
of the potential procurement risks, and recommendations made if necessary, to improve the
procurement process.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Experience with other World Bank-financed projects in Macedonia proves that hiring an accountant is quite
difficult due to the shortage of such (qualified) skills and to the low competitiveness of the salaries paid by
projects compared with the private sector. Therefore, it has been decided that the financial management of
the project will be outsourced to a local accounting firm/consultant with previous experience with
Bank-financed projects. The selection of a local accounting finm/consultant acceptable to the Bank was a
condition for negotiations. During project appraisal an action plan to ensure compliance with the financial
management requirements was agreed upon and its implementation is a condition of effectiveness. To
facilitate the bookkeeping and the Bank's compliance reporting, the project will purchase an appropriate
software.
The Financial Management Specialist in the Bank's Task Team is based in Albania and therefore will be
able to readily travel to Skopje to supervise the project's financial management.
5. Environmental:                   Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
No environmental assessment has been carried out since specific sub-projects funded through the small
grant program will only be identified in the course of project implementation. During project preparation
the local environmental impact assessment regulations and procedures were reviewed and a mechanism for
assessing potential negative environmental impacts as well as developing mitigation plans was developed
(see 5.2). Currently, Macedonia doesn't have an environmental impact assessment legislation and local
environmental regulations do not adequately cover the type of activities likely to be funded through the
project. Building codes, permits and worker safety rules regulate construction activities, however there are
no specific guidelines on the use of asbestos or lead paint, health hazards, or waste disposal from small and
medium businesses. Discussions were held with representatives of the Ministry of Environment, the
municipality of Berovo, and a local environmental NGO on the environmental assessment and mitigation
mechanism to be adopted by the project.
To strengthen the capacity of the local working groups in charge of evaluating, approving and monitoring
sub-projects, as well as of the Project Coordination Unit in charge of monitoring the performance of the
overall project, technical assistance will be provided to develop the necessary environmental expertise. An
environmental expert will assist the PCU with the preparation of environmental guidelines for the selection
of project proposals as well as help the local working groups with the screening, evaluation and monitoring
of sub-projects.
No major environmental issues are associated with the activities proposed under the project. Indeed, the
project should have a positive impact on the natural and cultural environment by giving communities a
stake in its preservation. However, possible concems could include environmental health hazards from
crafts activities, use of toxic or hazardous materials in rehabilitation works, and adverse environmental
impacts as a result of changes in site management or increase in tourist visits.
- 12 -



5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
No EMP has been prepared yet, given the typology of the project. However, during project preparation the
mechanism for assessing sub-project environmental impact and identifying mitigation measures and
monitoring compliance was developed. A simple screening of sub-project proposals will determine what
type of environmental assessment is required, based on the sub-project typology. Most sub-projects are
likely to require no environmental assessment or a simple environmental review based on a checklist that
identifies the environmental impacts and proposes mitigation measures. The checklist will be completed by
the proposing association and will be reviewed by the local committee appraising sub-projects. EMPs may
be developed for particular sub-projects and sites if necessary. The operational manual for the small grant
program will detail the mechanisms and institutional arrangements for environmental screening and
assessment of sub-projects and project sites.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consultcd?
Consultations were held with representatives of the Ministry of Environment, the municipality of Berovo,
and a local environmental NGO on the procedures for environmental assessment and mitigation mechanism
to be adopted by the project. Stakeholders (grant beneficiaries, representatives of communities and local
governments, NGOs, and CBOs) will be consulted initially through the social assessment process at each
project site. Further consultation will occur if environmental screening determines that additional
assessment is needed.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Depending on the results of the screening process, monitoring of sub-project implementation will include
compliance with the project environmental guidelines and mitigation plan. Specific monitoring indicators
may be developed for individual sub-projects depending on the type of impact.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Social assessment will focus on the project sites. Since at preparation only the first pilot site has been
selected, most of the social assessment work will be done as part of project implementation. Social
assessment at the selected pilot site of Berovo is to be carried out in conjunction with both a needs
assessment and a local awareness campaign. The needs assessment at the pilot site will also help defining
the criteria for sub-project selection at the national level. Once other sites are selected (following a national
outreach campaign and a competitive, demand-driven process of sub-project selection), further and more
extended social and needs assessment will be carried out at the selected sites to promote and support work
with communities.
The project will place emphasis on job creation for urban and rural job seekers through new
income-generating activities linked to tourism, handicraft production, and (limited) physical works. The
project will also bring positive social benefits by supporting poor communities of different ethnic origin to
organize themselves and engage in pilot economic small investments to create conditions for tourism
- 13 -



hosting. Pilot site activities will be designed to draw on all ethnic groups living in the area. They will be
encouraged to participate in the programs so as to equitably distribute the benefits and reflect the ethnic
composition of the areas of intervention.
Social and needs assessments will help identify communities, needs, priority interventions and basic
requirements for investments. Social monitoring activities will be built into the project, as part of the
participatory monitoring and evaluation system, in order to evaluate how the pilot activities impact the
vanous groups composing the community. This will be particularly important to ensure that the project
provides some economic opportunities for the poorest members of the community.
Preliminary social assessment at the selected pilot site of Berovo yielded the following results. Berovo is a
small town in eastern Macedonia with about 7,000 inhabitants and another 13,000 living in the catchment
area. Unemployment is high. Generally youth are highly educated but often do not stay in the area. There
is a strong pattern of outmigration with no return patterns as well as few remittances sent home.
Nonetheless, the community seems very cohesive and committed to bringing in new ideas and changes,
including developing schemes and proposals for income generating activities. Ideas for change expressed by
the population generally involve the use of available natural assets as well as local traditional skills and the
development of rural tourism. In fact, the community at large believes that Berovo has a great potential for
the development of community based tourism and other alternative forms of tourism (horse-riding
packages, gastronomic tourism, etc.). The town is already visited by approximately 25,000 tourists many
of whom attend four religious festivals that take place in the area. Others come to stay at vacation homes
or at a nearby lake "resort" or to hunt. However, there is no formal organization to promote tourism in the
area, the hotel capacity is limited as are the recreational activities offered to tourists once on the spot. In a
preliminary visit and interviews with key informants, the following needs were expressed and seemed to
represent the ideas of the community as a whole, including younger members who are featured as dynamic
and well educated. Priority action should focus on (i) the development of viable activities such as bed and
breakfast facilities and other income generating activities that could be easily carried out by the local
population; (ii) the development of a marketing strategy for tourism in the area and the promotion of a
tourism office in town; (iii) the extension of local knowledge of traditional skills; (iv) the need for training
in marketable activities while using local and traditional skills. More specifically, suggested activities
included: (a) the creation of an information center and/or tourism office to produce information material on
the area; (b) the description of the areas around Berovo and the promotion of activities and circuits
available (e.g., hiking, horse-riding packages, traditional inns and home-based restaurants, etc.); (c) the
production of traditional goods (carpets and food) with attractive packages for tourists (e.g., jam pots, oil,
fruit baskets, etc.); (d) the rehabilitation of traditional machinery for food production and processing (e.g.,
flour mill, water mill, ovens, etc.), and (e) the development of accommodation facilities such as bed and
breakfasts in the town and surrounding around areas. This information was collected during a rapid
appraisal with various stakeholders including: members of the local government, an artist, the director of
the cultural center, a handicraftsman, owners of traditional unused machinery for food processing,
producers, women willing to adapt their homes for bed and breakfast accommodations, etc.
The project is expected to have the following social development outcomes:
*   new opportunities for generating income at project sites;
*   stronger governance and institution building at the local level through the establishment of social
capital (networks and associated norms that can improve the efficiency of society by facilitating
coordinated action) at project sites;
*   improved understanding and confidence in communities' ability to help themselves at project sites;
*   a viable approach to socioeconomic and cultural development modeled and nationally disseminated.
- 14 -



6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The primary beneficiaries will be those individuals who associate together to produce sub-project ideas,
benefit from technical assistance, and in many cases receive grant funding to implement their ideas. Those
not selected will still benefit from technical assistance and will receive assistance in seek funding elsewhere.
These beneficiaries are expected to be largely un- or underemployed people living near sites of cultural
significance and will include youths, the elderly, and women. Special efforts will be made to include all
ethnic groups.
The primary beneficiaries will be identified and consulted through social assessment and needs assessment.
These assessments will be undertaken during preparation of activities at pilot sites and as part of project
monitoring in order to inform the design of support activities, define needs and priorities, and ensure
community support and participation in the project. The primary beneficiaries will subsequently participate
through collaboration involving shared decision-making.
The population as a whole at project sites will also benefit from the project through consultation. Their
community leaders (governmental and civil society) will collaborate with the project to implement activities
in their communities. Indeed such leaders at the pilot site of Berovo have already been consulted, thereby
influencing the project design, and will begin collaboration once the outreach campaign is started. The
involvement of members of the community will be effected through the support/creation of community
associations that will be instrumental in the decision-making processes. Participatory approaches to the
management of community assets, coupling municipal government and civil society, that will include the
members' own needs and assessment in conjunction with the conclusions drawn from the results of social
assessments, will increase the likelihood of success of project activities.
Other key stakeholders include:
-   staff of cultural institutions (the Ministry of Culture, museums, cultural centers, etc.) at potential
project sites, who will be consulted and may collaborate if their sites are selected for sub-project
implementation;
i   staff of the Ministry of Culture, other relevant ministries, and related institutions (e.g., the Institute
for the Protection of Cultural Monuments) at the national level, who will be consulted and have
already contributed to influencing project design;
-   the Macedonian Orthodox Church, which owns many cultural properties throughout the country,
and will collaborate at project sites; a representative is included in the project's Steering
Committee;
*   non governmental organizations active in community development and/or cultural activities, who
have been consulted on project design and may collaborate in project implementation;
* tourism operators (both domestic and international), who have been consulted and may collaborate
in marketing project sites and outputs.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs and CBOs, local and central government, and the private sector, will be asked to participate in
public consultations and workshops where needs for training, funding and institutional strengthening are
discussed. Priorities for intervention will be identified and discussed during these consultations, and
decisions will be taken in a participatory manner.
Under the supervision of the PCU, one or more local NGOs will be responsible for carrying out social
- 15 -



assessment activities and will continue working with the newly created network of community associations
during implementation, further consolidating partnerships with associations, communities and other local
NGOs.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
In order to ensure the attainment of the projects'social development outcomes, the project embodies the
institutional learning mechanism described in section C3 above and in Annexes 2 and 11.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
As described in section C3 and Annexes 2 and 11, performance will be monitored by stakeholders at three
levels (subproject, community, and national).
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                     Applcability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)             * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Propertv (OPN 11.03)                                    * Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               0 Yes 0 No
Safetv of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)           0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Provisions to ensure compliance with the policy on environmental assessment are described above (section
E5).
The Bank's physical cultural resources policy seeks to avoid harm to physical cultural resources (both
manmade and natural). The project is expected to safeguard, rather than harm, cultural property. An
assessment of the local regulations on protection of cultural property at national and local level was carried
out during project preparation. Macedonian regulations are limited to the protection of a list of monuments
under the supervision of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments. Although the impact of the
project on cultural resources is expected to be positive rather than negative, social and needs assessments at
project sites will be designed to ensure compliance with the Bank policy on cultural resources and the
environmental screening mechanism described in section E5 will be designed to include attention to this
area.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This section is not to be completed in LIL PAD.
- 16 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                     Risk Rating               Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
It will be difficult to market crafts.         M          Project includes assessment of crafts potential
and technical assistance for crafts development
and marketing.
It will be difficult to market tourist         M          Project will establish links with eco-cultural
destinations.                                             tourism operators and includes technical
assistance for marketing.
From Components to Outputs
Political conflict in Macedonia impedes        M          Project enjoys widespread support that will be
implementation.                                           bolstered through community involvement at the
local level and scrupulous attention to
transparency.
The political environment does not allow       M          The participatory approach to institutional
appropriate responsibility to be devolved                 learning embodied in the project will create
to the local level.                                       demand for better policies; transparency will
mitigate the risks of politicization.
Unrest and political instablility will          S         Project will focus on intemal as well as external
reduce Macedonia's attractiveness as a                    markets.
tourist destination.
Overall Risk Rating                            M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None expected.
G. Main CreditConditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None
2. Other [classify according to covenant typcs used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditions of negotiations:
*   selection of a local accounting firm/consultant acceptable to the Bank;
*   agreement on an action plan to ensure compliance with financial management requirements.
- 17 -



Conditions of presentation to Regional Vice President:
*   establishment of the financial management system for the project;
*   issuance of the financial management certificate.
Condition of disbursement:
*   the proceeds for sub-grants won't be disbursed unless an operational manual satisfactory to IDA
has been adopted by the Borrower (ref. paragraph 3.b of Schedule I to the Development Credit
Agreement).
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
C 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
Z 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
X 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
*   Agreement on the provisions of the operational manual (a condition of disbursement of sub-grants).
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. roject complies with
all other applicable Bank policies./                                \
&i%eLqL ~                          __     ____         ___
J/A Emilia Battaglini                  Alexandre Marc                     Christiaan J. Poortman
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director            Country Manager/Director
Mark Woodward
Team Leader
- 1 8-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND
CULTURE PROJECT (LIL)
Key Performane
Hierarchy of O*ctives .        Ilcatwr            Monitoring & Evaluation    Crifical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:     Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Promote private sector   * Regional indicators of  CAS and PRSP related    Private sector growth and
growth and job creation;    economic growth and   sector work, including   enhanced governnent
enhance the efficiency of the    poverty reduction.  social and poverty    efficiency will contribute to
state, local government, and  *  Stakeholder perceptions assessments.      poverty reduction.
communities; and reduce     of state, local
poverty.                    government, and
community efficiency.
Follow-on Development
Objective:
- 19 -



t0Hierarchy of objectives        indctw              Mo~ng   t!Evafuation   tCrticall Assumins 
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
To establish conditions that   *  Community           *  PCU quarterly           *  Pilots can be
facilitate community-based     associations              progress and               successfully
socioeconomic development   created/supported at      disbursement reports.      replicated.
socioeconormic development     project sites remain d     Semi-annual            S  Resources will be
by leveraging one of the       viable,                   supervision mission        available for pilot
country's untapped          *  Municipal                 reports.                   replication.
resources, ItS cultural
assets, to create              governments work       *  Evaluation reports
culetu,rebase i                effectively with local    (mid-term and ICR).
culture-based icdustines       communities.           *  PCU M&E system.
(notably handicrafts and                                 Befiar
community-based tourism)                                 asBenefti .
in areas adjacent to cultural                            assessments.
heritage sites, while
improving the management
of cultural assets,
particularly at the local
level.
- 20 -



Key Prformance 
Hierarchy of Objectives        Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each         Output Indicators:        Project reports:         (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
la. Community-based      Ia. Site plans implemented   *  PCU quarterly        0  Crafts can be
tourism and crafts       and industries             progress and             marketed.
industries organized     developed.                 disbursement reports.   *  Tourist destinations
around cultural assets                           *  Semi-annual              can be marketed.
at pilot sites.                                     supervision mission
lb. Local community      lb. CBOs and NGOs             reports.
capacity to manage       receive technical       *  Evaluation reports
cultural assets and      assistance/training.      (mid-term and ICR).
related activities                               *  PCU M&E system.
enhanced through
technical
assistance/training.  2. National site inventory
2. National level capacity   produced; policy studies
to support the           carried out; PCU
mobilization of cultural    receives training.
assets in support of
community
development enhanced
through technical
assistance/training.
- 21 -



Key PeOWormance
Hierrhy of Pb*ectives          Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components I     Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:       (from Components to
Sub-components:          component)                                         Outputs)
1. Integrated site       1. US$ 5.20 million        *  PCU quarterly          *  Political conflict in
development through                                 progress and             Macedonia does not
development of cultural                             disbursement reports     impede
industries coupled with                          *  Semi-annual              implementation.
priority investments,                               supervision mission   *  The political
conservation measures,                              reports                  environment allows
and capacity building.                           0 Annual audit reports      appropriate
2. Institutional         2. US$ 0.92 million                                     responsibility to be
development at the                                                           devolved to the local
national level.                                                              level.
* Unrest and political
instability won't
reduce Macedonia's
attractiveness as a
tounst destination.
-22 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND
CULTURE PROJECT (LIL)
The primary activity to be funded under the project is the development of sets of interrelated sub-projects
clustered in and around a limited number of communities possessing sites and other assets of cultural
importance. These activities and sites will be selected through a competitive, demand-driven process.
Criteria for selection are designed (and over the course of the project will be refined) to encourage synergies
and to promote community development and poverty reduction. These sub-projects will be supported with
capacity building measures to help develop community-based site and business management skills. Thus
the first project component will be integrated site development. However, for such measures at the
community level to have maximum effect, national level capacity also needs to be built. Hence the
inclusion of a component for institutional development at the national level.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$5.20 million
Integrated Site Development:
This component will seek to develop sets of cultural industries in several pilot sites through priority
investments, conservation measures, and local level capacity building. Sites will be selected following a
nation-wide public outreach campaign to solicit sub-project ideas. A prequalification process will then
select possible candidates for assistance in developing proposals. Sub-projects will then be selected
competitively in accordance with criteria designed to maximize the impact in terms of poverty reduction
and community development and to produce groups of projects clustered around appropriate communities.
The selected communities will then receive assistance in the participatory development of site management
plans and managerial skills. The process is designed to allow for learning and correction over the course of
project preparation and implementation. To this end, it begins with an initial pilot site, the town of Berovo
in Eastern Macedonia, selected during project preparation to test the approach. Procedures and terms of
reference will then be revised to reflect the lessons of this first experience before being implemented more
broadly under the project. All sites will be subject to social and economic assessment, assessment of needs
related to site management, and environmental screening (and assessment where needed). The process at
the initial pilot site and then at subsequent sites is described below.
Initial Pilot Site
A Working Group of the project's Steering Committee was charged with proposing possible locations in
which to pilot the project concept. The Working Group, wanting to complement the Govemment's desire to
promote monasteries as sites for cultural tourism, selected two sites with historically significant
monasteries: Kriva Palanka and Berovo. Following site visits, the Steering Committee, chaired by the
Minister of Culture, decided that Berovo would be the pilot location. In making this selection the
Committee used the following criteria:
*   people in the area should already be organized to promote cultural activities/tourism;
*   interest on the part of the municipality and community;
*   the activities to receive support should have an impact on poverty reduction;
*   there should already be visitors coming to the area who could provide an initial market for new
activities;
*   there should be a likelihood of financial sustainability; and
*   it should be possible to draw lessons from the pilot experience in a relatively short period of time.
- 23 -



At the pilot site the process is to unfold as follows:
*   The PCU will conduct an outreach campaign in the Berovo area to explain to the population that
the project is prepared to consider sub-project ideas from the population.
*   The Municipality will establish a Berovo Working Group to manage the process at the local level.
The Berovo Working Group will begin deliberating on local development strategies through a
participatory planning process involving both the municipal authorities and the community and in
coordination with the PCU.
*   Simultaneously a participatory social and needs assessment will be carried out in the area by an
NGO or institute with a view to identifying (inter alia): potential assets for promoting
socioeconomic development; different stakeholder groups so as to ensure that none are excluded;
any possible adverse environmental impacts that would need mitigation; and any potential
impediments to development that would need addressing. This assessment work will also begin the
process of working with the community to develop a community-based site
management/community development plan.
*   Potential sub-project promoters will then submit their ideas for consideration to the Municipality
through the Berovo Working Group.
* The Berovo Working Group will do an initial screening of these sub-project ideas, based on
guidelines received from the national level Steering Committee (via the PCU) as well as its own
determination of local priorities, and will preselect a set of potentially appropriate ideas for further
elaboration. This set of potential sub-projects will then be presented first to the Municipality and
then to the national level Steering Committee for validation.
*   The PCU will then contract an NGO to give technical assistance to the promoters of these ideas to
help them further elaborate their ideas, prepare business and procurement plans, and prepare
proposals.
* The Berovo Working Group will then evaluate these proposals against a set of criteria again based
on national guidelines and local priorities. The selected sub-projects will again be presented first to
the Municipality and then to the national level Steering Committee for validation. In order to
ensure transparency the criteria will be published and the deliberations of the Working Group will
be open to the public. Complaints may be presented to the PCU for investigation as needed.
-   Selected sub-projects will then receive grant funding. Promoters deemed to have sufficient
capacity to handle procurement on their own will receive the funding in a limited number of
tranches (the distribution of which will be determined on basis of the nature of the proposal). In
those cases where the promoters do not have such capacity, procurement will be handled by the
PCU. In all cases procurement will follow guidelines described in the Project Implementation Plan.
Rejected proposals could be reconsidered in a subsequent phase and/or directed to other sources of
financing (such as the USAID and EU grant and microcredit programs).
* Concurrently with the implementation of sub-projects, the Berovo Working Group and
Municipality will continue to receive assistance in community organization through the PCU (such
assistance may be subcontracted).
*   During sub-project implementation their experience will be monitored and technical assistance
provided as needed.
* Once implementation is well under way, assistance with marketing will be provided.
Approximately three months after the sub-projects begin implementation, the PCU will hold a stakeholder
workshop (timed to coincide with a World Bank supervision mission), to assess the experience at the pilot
site. The workshop will review the entire process and procedures, with a view to making improvements to
be implemented at subsequent sites.
- 24 -



Extension of the Approach to Additional Sites
Following the revision of the approach in light of the pilot experience, the approach will be extended to the
rest of the country. At subsequent sites the process will be essentially the same, but a choice will have to
be made in light of the experience with the pilot in Berovo regarding the extension process. There are two
possibilities. The first would be to select sites on the basis of expressions of interest on the part of
municipalities, solicited through a national outreach campaign. In this case the process would be very
similar to that in Berovo. The second would be to determine the sites through the selection of sub-projects.
This would entail a key difference from the process in Berovo in that social and needs assessments would
not be carried out until the sites are selected. In both cases the outreach campaign would be national and
the selection criteria would be designed to favor less advantaged areas of the country. In the former it
would focus on soliciting interest from municipalities; in the latter on soliciting interest from sub-project
promoters. Thus the process would be revised as follows:
Option A                                      Option B
*  A national outreach campaign will solicit   *  A national outreach campaign will solicit
expressions of interest from                   sub-project ideas from the population.
Municipalities.                            *  Potential sub-project promoters will then
X  The PCU will propose project sites for          submit their ideas to the PCU for
selection by the Steering Committee,           consideration.
based on transparent criteria.             *  An initial screening by the PCU, validated
*  The selected Municipalities will establish     by the Steering Committee, will preselect a
local Working Groups, which will begin         set of potentially appropriate ideas for
the participatory planning process.           further elaboration. The criteria for
*  Simultaneously a participatory social and      pre-selection will include the availability
needs assessment will be carried out at        of other possible sub-projects in the
the selected sites.                            surrounding area. This will result in
*  Potential sub-project promoters will then      clusters of sub-projects at an additional
submit their ideas for consideration to the    four to six sites.
Municipalities through the local Working   *  Participatory social and needs assessments
Groups.                                        will be carried out at the selected sites.
*  The local Working Groups will preselect     *  Simultaneously the Municipalities at the
a set of potentially appropriate ideas for     selected sites will establish local working
further elaboration. This set of potential     groups, which will begin the participatory
sub-projects will then be presented first to   planning process.
the Municipality and then to the national
level Steering Committee for validation.
- 25 -



Both Options
*  The promoters of these ideas will receive technical assistance to help them further elaborate
their ideas, prepare business and procurement plans, and prepare proposals.
*  Proposals will be judged against national guidelines and locally determined priorities by the
local working groups. The selection will be validated by the Municipality concemed and
then by the Steering Committee.
*  Selected sub-projects will then receive funding and community development work will
continue at the project sites.
*  During sub-project implementation their experience will be monitored and technical
assistance provided as needed.
*  Once implementation is well under way, assistance with marketing will be provided.
Procedures and Mechanisms
Levels and Responsibilities. The Integrated Site Development Component is conceived as a three tiered
process. At the top is the nationalpolicy level, embodied in the Project's Steering Committee and its
Working Group. In the middle is the local strategy level, embodied in the Municipality and a Local
Working Group. On the bottom is the operational level, embodied in groups from the local population
who develop specific activities (sub-projects). The Steering Committee makes policy regarding the overall
directions of the project and provides guidelines for the local level. The Municipality, with the support of
its working group, produces strategies for local development that inform the process of selecting
sub-projects for financing. Groups of people propose sub-projects for implementation. These are judged
by the Local Working Group, under the guidance of the Municipal Government and according to the
guidelines produced at the national policy level. There is thus continual interaction between the three
levels.
Social and Needs Assessment. A critical part of the project process will be social and needs assessments
at each pilot site to identify (inter alia) potential assets for promoting socioeconomic development; different
stakeholder groups so as to ensure that none are excluded; any possible adverse environmental impacts that
would need mitigation; and any potential impediments to development that would need addressing.
Among the main objectives of the social assessment are the following:
* to inform the local community about the project and its process of open competition in order to
trigger proposals and ideas from the community and its members;
*   to collect information from a range of stakeholders within the community to learn the major
cultural, socioeconomic, and demographic features of the Berovo region and identify the needs for
interventions and improvement with respect to the cultural and natural assets of the community;
*   to provide among its conclusions, indications on how to help the local community devise a system
of incentives and responsibilities to stimulate sustainable development and maximize the positive
impact of the project on the local population; and
*   to facilitate the establishment of a framework where outputs and benchmarks are defined in order
to measure improvements, community involvement and effective change throughout the life of the
project.
In the first phase of information gathering and better understanding of the social context, the core set of
issues for the social assessment will be captured according to three main categories: (i) local population and
regional development; (ii) cultural assets; and (iii) tourism.
The assessment would also include a preliminary Site Map in order to better understand and promote the
area's local distinctiveness. Survey participants would be asked to list and locate the landmarks and places
- 26 -



of special significance on a sketch map. The findings will be collated and analyzed. As the pilot activity
proceeds, the findings from this mapping will be used as part of a guidebook, signs, etc. The information
will also be incorporated, where appropriate, into the national inventory.
Fundingfor Subprojects. Two lines of financing for grants are envisaged. The main grant fund would be
for sub-projects requiring grants in an amount initially fixed at between $3,000 and $30,000. In
exceptional circumstances, under conditions of public benefit, urgency, and/or need, grants greater than
US$ 30,000 could be considered. A second grant line could be for small grants under $500. This would
constitute a Community Service Fund to provide small grants up for community services such as Park
cleaning, scouts' activities, and student projects related to cultural and natural heritage and for which the
more detailed requirements of the main fund would not apply.
Proposals for the main grant fund will be evaluated against a set of criteria developed by both the local and
national working groups. Grant recipients will be required to report on sub-project performance, and the
local working group will provide periodic summaries of the sub-project results to both the community and
the Steering Committee.
Grants should be made available to groups and associations, but in no case to individuals. Private market
operators would be expected to have or to form an appropriate association to be eligible for grants. The
association would apply for grants on behalf of its members, and would indicate how the proposed activity
would produce public benefit and how that would be measured.
Grants could cover up to 100% of sub-project costs net of taxes. Beneficiary associations and/or
communities will pay all taxes on goods and services procured under sub-projects, except for activities
concerning the preservation of cultural monuments, in which case government funds could be used to pay
the tax obligations. The beneficiary contribution will normally cover at least the tax payments; under
circumstances to be described in the Operational Manual, beneficiaries could also be expected to provide
an additional contribution to the sub-project, which could be provided in kind. In no case would the
beneficiary or community contribution to the sub-project be less than 5% and this contribution would
normally be in the range of 5% to 20%, with the lower range reserved for sub-projects with greater public
benefit.
Grants could not be used to finance the purchase of private assets, however associations of private market
operators could receive grants for other purposes, such as marketing and advertising, provided that their
activity would benefit the community in some way.
Beneficiaries could receive help in applying to appropriate micro-credit programs. Two or three
appropriate micro-credit schemes have been identified, one of which already has operations at the pilot site.
This micro-credit organization, Moznosti, has a minimum loan requirement of $500, with an average loan
size of $5,000 - $7,000. This range is compatible with other aspects of this project. This organization has
been successful in working with local borrowers by working with communities to enable them to meet
collateral requirements and so forth. For example, they are willing to accept automatic withdrawals from
paychecks as collateral. Such flexible arrangements allow small businesses to access credit in amounts that
are feasible for their size. Eventually the project may enter into formal arrangements with such programs
to facilitate the process of applying for credit.
During negotiations the Ministry of Culture suggested that a third type of project be included. These would
be activities related to the preservation of cultural monuments at project sites that would be proposed by
the Ministry of Culture. IDA funds would finance no more than 30% of the cost of such sub-projects. The
criteria and mechanisms for selecting such projects will be developed during the project's pilot phase for
subsequent incorporation into the Operational Manual.
Grants should be recoverable if funds are misappropriated or misused. Normally grant recipients should be
- 27 -



juridical persons, to permit legal recourse and recovery. For small grants under $500, a juridical person
could act on behalf of an informal group seeking funding.
Possible Types of Sub-Project. This process will result in clusters of sub-project activities of three main
types: handicrafts, community-based tourism, and site improvements and conservation measures. As this
program is demand driven, it is impossible to determine in advance what will be funded. Nonetheless, an
indicative sample of possible sub-projects might include:
*   creation of a visitor information office - this might require some small works to refurbish an office,
services to develop tourist brochures, printing of brochures, and modest operating costs for a
limited period of time;
*   organization of a group of weavers or carvers - perhaps services to improve quality and marketing
coupled with some goods (materials);
*   rehabilitation of a water-driven flour mill to improve the presentation to visitors - small scale
works;
*   signage of walking and riding paths in the surrounding countryside - goods;
*   organization of an association of hotel owners - services to improve marketing and limited
operating costs;
*   restoration of traditional food production systems, able also to sustain production for sale to
visitors (materials);
*   rehabilitation of public squares and beautification of public spaces, including tree planting
(materials, services);
-   development of information and presentation of archeological sites for public visits (materials,
services);
*   organization of an association of restaurateurs, to improve standards for welcoming visitors
(services).
Sub-projects could involve goods, works, and/or services.
Criteria for Sub-Projects. The criteria for sub-project selection will be refined during the course of
project implementation, but are expected to include the following:
*   it should be proposed by an association;
*   the activity should have some relationship with the cultural and/or natural assets in the vicinity;
*   the promoters should contribute a minimum of ten percent of the project cost (this may be in kind);
*   it should include a business plan demonstrating technical and economical feasibility and the
likelihood of sustainability;
*   it should include a simple procurement plan detailing what is to be purchased, how, and when;
*   it should contribute to the objective of poverty reduction or job creation;
*   it should mobilize local knowledge in support of implementation;
*   it should have potential for synergies with other activities within reasonable proximity;
*   preference would be given to sub-projects that assist disadvantaged groups;
*   it should not involve deforestation, the degradation of critical natural habitats, or harm to physical
cultural property (both manmade and natural).
Transparency. In order to avoid any suspicion of partisan bias or corrupt practices, it will be necessary to
strictly adhere to the principle of transparency. To this end the following measure are to be implemented:
*   The criteria and procedures for sub-project and site selection will be published in the national
press.
*   The meetings at which decisions will be taken on activities to be funded at both the local and
national levels will be publicly announced and open to the public.
- 28 -



*   Social assessment will identify groups at risk of exclusion from project activities and recommend
measures to ensure that they are not excluded.
*   The workshops to assess the results of the pilot experience in Berovo and to be held as part of the
project's mid-term review, will include a wide range of stakeholders.
Local Level Capacity Building
The local strategy level, embodied in the Municipality and its local working group, forms the critical
linkage between the operational level and the national policy level. This level has responsibility for taking
key decisions regarding local development in general and project activities in particular. Therefore, in
addition to financing successful proposals, the project will support capacity building at the local strategy
level, particularly for the development and implementation of community-based site
management/community development plans at each beneficiary site. These plans would define necessary
improvements and conservation measures, inter alia: improved site access and parking facilities,
circulation systems, presentation and interpretation, visitor facilities, conservation and protective works,
and training. These communities will also receive assistance in marketing their cultural assets.
While authority is lodged in the Municipality, it needs to work in close association with civil society. To
this end local working groups are to be established under the project to support the decision-making
functions of the Municipality. The Municipality will select the members of the local working group in
consultation with the Steering Committee (through the PCU) and after appropriate local consultations,
according to criteria of efficiency and representation. The local working group should be composed of not
more than ten members, including local officials and a representative group of citizens.
The local working group would be responsible for developing and articulating a local strategy for achieving
national policy goals, in line with local capabilities and potentials. They would also have the role of
communicating widely to the community the type of sub-projects called for and which are needed to fulfill
the strategy. And they would have the task of selecting the best sub-projects on a periodic basis, allocating
the supporting grants, and supervising the implementation of project activities. The working group would
be accountable to the Municipality and to the Steering Committee for its implementation of the adopted
strategy, and the achievement of measurable strategic objectives; it would post periodic information about
the decisions it has made.
The aim would be to achieve the widest and fairest possible local participation consistent with efficiency in
implementing the sub-projects, and effectiveness in realizing strategic objectives. Maintaining this program
of this nature, with widespread and equitable participation, will require: a program of information; the
preparation of simple guidelines, manuals, application procedures, and an application form; the provision
of selective technical assistance; and a practice of transparency and leaming by the local working group.
In order to carry out its functions, the Municipality and the local working group will receive technical
assistance in a variety of areas, including (inter alia) monitoring and evaluation and handicrafts and
tourism development.
In regard to handicrafts, technical assistance will build on the national level handicrafts assessment (see
Component 2 below) to support: (i) an analysis of existing craft production and craft producers as well as
existing and potential markets; (ii) product line development; (iii) the development of market strategies; and
(iv) provision of related technical support services including the preparation of business plans and business
advice.
In regard to community-based tourism, technical assistance will build upon the national level tourism
assessment (see Component 2 below) to support: (i) the assessment of local tourism resources and the
tourism market; (ii) the development of marketing strategies; (iii) investment in critical tourism
infrastructure and services, by facilitating private sector investments and access to existing micro-credit
- 29 -



schemes for new entrants into the tourism industry; and (iv) the provision of related technical support
services including the preparation of well designed and informative tourism literature, training in areas such
as guiding and hospitality, and business advice for small and medium size enterprises.
Technical assistance and capacity building activities will be subcontracted to NGOs or the private sector,
with the PCU playing a coordinating and supervisory role.
Participatory Monitoring and Institutional Learning
The integrated site development component project embodies a strategic approach to project objectives
whereby the detailed up-front planning of the traditional project cycle is replaced by a process approach in
which guidelines guide the project to successful implementation, coupled with learning mechanisms to
ensure feedback and correction. In this context monitoring and evaluation becomes critical. Monitoring
must be linked to the objectives of project stakeholders. Evaluation must lead to useable feedback. And
feedback must generate corrective measures to improve the efficacy of project implementation. Monitoring
and evaluation thus becomes more than simply a measuring device; it becomes a critical tool for
institutional learning.
The institutional learning system is based on the premise that, while the Bank's learning is important, the
primary learning must be done by the stakeholders, at all three levels described above (national policy, local
strategy, and operational). It assumes that the project objectives can be met through a participatory
process of monitoring, feedback, evaluation, and learning, through which the project approach is
continually modified and improved. Institutional leaming arises from a process of collaborative
decision-making about adjustments in goals, objectives, targets, structures, processes, measures, and
incentives. Through such adaptations new knowledge becomes embedded on an organizational level. This
process of learning, based on channeling the right kind of information to the right groups of people in the
right way so that they can make the right decisions, is described in Annex 11.
Project Component 2 - US$0.92 million
Institutional Development at the National Level:
This component will support the local level activities by: providing needed information for the successful
mobilization of cultural assets in support of community development, particularly at project pilot sites;
facilitating the marketing of cultural assets at project sites; and coordinating project implementation.
A.    In order to support the development of local level activities, three activities will be carried out:
(1) the existing national inventory of cultural sites will be further developed as a multipurpose (national and
regional) planning tool, by making it more accessible and operationally useful and by integrating
community participation approaches; (2) a handicrafts assessment and action plan will determine the scope
of existing handicrafts and make recomnmendations for future product and business development; and (3) a
tourism assessment and action plan will examine the current organization, performance, needs, and
opportunities for the sector with regard to cultural and eco-tourism potential. These three activities will
inform the work of the project's Steering Comrmittee as well as the local Working Groups to be set up at
project sites. They will also contribute to on-going work at the national policy level sponsored by the
Council of Europe.
A.I.   Macedonia already has an Inventory of Cultural Sites, based in the National and Regional
Institutes for the Protection of Monuments. However, while there is extensive documentation, particularly
for legally protected sites, it is not readily accessible, computerized, nor geographically indexed.
Furthermnore, the inventory focuses on monuments, largely ignoring other types of cultural assets (e.g.,
vernacular architecture, historic districts, cultural landscapes, and other elements of local distinctiveness).
- 30 -



Thus there is a clear need for standardization and modernization of the inventory in the interest of turning it
into a useful tool for both local and national policy development. In order to enhance the utility of the
inventory as a tool for local development, there is also a need to adopt community participation approaches
to developing and extending the inventory.
To this end the inventory activity will provide technical assistance, training, and provision of information
technology equipment to modernize and computerize the existing database of information beginning with
legally protected and identified sites. An advisory group comprising representatives of the Institute and
their regional institutes, the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, the Ministry of Transportation
and Connections, and the national cartography service will be formed to provide their perspectives on
improving the coverage and accessibility of the inventory. The Council of Europe Core Data Index will be
adapted to Macedonian needs and field tested. Staff will be trained in the use of computers, scanners,
image digitalization, and geographical information systems (GIS). Berovo will become the first test site for
participatory extension of the inventory, which would subsequently be extended to the other project sites.
The computerization will begin with the 1,132 legally protected sites and extend as time permits to some of
the 10,000 identified sites. A good part of this work will be carried out by university students engaged on a
part time basis, thereby training a cadre of younger people in the methods of inventorying. The activity
will lead to recommendations for appropriate institutional support structures. Monitoring and evaluation of
the inventory process will be built into the activity.
The Council of Europe has agreed to support the development of the inventory through expert review of the
approach and data sheet through their Inventory Working Group. Further advisory services could be
envisaged through the COE's support for national level institutional development.
This activity is expected to result in the following outcomes:
I . Development of a Core Data Standard Inventory, GIS based, for the country to be used as a
framework for national level asset management and a planning tool;
2. Initiation of a Community Map/Local Heritage Survey project, for selected pilot areas, with
funding for artists and a follow on program of events and activities;
3. Identification of features of local distinctiveness on which to build events, volunteering
opportunities, and business opportunities (festivals and harvests, exhibits, maintenance of
footpaths and parks, creation of community gardens, community histories and art works, teaching
about heritage in schools etc.).
A.2.   Macedonia has a rich tradition of craft production, including (as illustrative examples) wood
carving, rug weaving, textile production, and cheese making. These traditions, currently at risk of being
lost, have considerable potential for supporting socioeconomic development. However, if this potential is
to be realized, production needs to be revived and diversified, quality improved, and markets enlarged.
This is unlikely to be done successfully without better knowledge of Macedonia's craft traditions, potential,
and constraints. Developing this knowledge is the purpose of the Handicrafts Assessment and Action
Plan.
The assessment and action plan will serve two purposes. First, in the context of the project, it will provide
a solid basis for handicraft development at the project's pilot sites, informing local strategizing as well as
determining the needs for technical assistance and marketing. Second, it will contribute to and strengthen a
proposed USAID handicrafts development program, expected to be carried out by the NGO Aid to
Artisans. In turn the USAID program would be expected to intervene at the project's pilot sites.
The assessment and action plan will be divided into three components:
1. Review of Historical Documentation. The consultants will collect historical data on early
- 31 -



handicraft production; analyze types of production, materials, techniques, and design; locate
historic production sites; specify modes of production and date ranges; and identify, where
possible, known markets.
2. Analysis of Current Production and Producers. The consultants will carry out an evaluation of
present day handicrafts with respect to: production by type; characteristics of producers;
information on volume of current production; an analysis of current markets; an analysis of current
marketing methods; documentation of pricing; and financial and technical support mechanisms
available to handicraft producers.
3. Action Plan for Development. Based on the first two collections of information, the consultants
would assess the potential for handicraft revitalization and diversification, including a market
analysis (demand and supply) of prospective business opportunities, options for new product lines,
marketing methods, and training needs, and prepare an action plan for implementation at project
sites.
A.3.  If Macedonia's cultural assets are to be successfully mobilized in support of socioeconomic
development, their presentation and interpretation will need to be strengthened and they must be made
known and marketed to potential consumers. In this respect sustainable eco-cultural tourism holds the
greatest promise. However, as in the case of handicrafts marketing, efforts to promote such tourism need
to be based on a solid understanding of the potential and constraints. To this end the Tourism Assessment
and Action Plan will focus on two separate but interrelated pieces of work.
1. An intensive case study at the pilot site at Berovo. By participating in and/or making use of
information gathered in community stakeholder consultations, the potential for community-based
tourism development in Berovo will be assessed. This will lead to recommnendations on how to
present the area's local distinctiveness to visitors, small-scale infrastructure improvements, human
resource development, strategies for supporting local small and medium sized businesses, and the
local and national regulatory and policy changes necessary to attract domestic, regional and
intemational tourism. The tourism consultants will also assist the pilot community in identifying
niche market opportunities and will provide with technical assistance in planning, implementing
and marketing the activities, in close collaboration with the outreach campaign.
2. Tourism sector review and action plan with regard to cultural and eco-tourism potential. Making
use of existing data to the greatest extent possible, macro tourism sector information will be
gathered to develop a base line of the current level of tourism activity; estimates of the sector's
economic growth potential; and identification of institutional and regulatory constraints that need
attention at the national level. This will build on the study of Small and Medium Enterprise
development potential carried out by the EU Phare program. The consultants will make
recommendations, inter alia, on small-scale infrastructure improvements, human resource
development, small and medium sized enterprise development, and the local and national regulatory
and policy changes necessary to attract domestic, regional, and intemational tourism based on
cultural and ecological assets. They will propose an action plan for development of cultural and
eco-tourism.
The two pieces of work will each be used to inforn the other. The local level findings will lend
on-the-ground reality to the macro research. In turn, the macro research will inform development of the
community-based tourism pilot.
It is expected that this activity will be funded by a grant from the Italian Trust Fund for Culture and
Sustainable Development (ITFCSD).
B.    To facilitate the marketing of Macedonia's cultural assets, after site development activities are
well under way, a marketing plan for the project sites will be designed (under the auspices of the Ministries
- 32 -



of Culture and Economy) and implemented to target both domestic and international markets (and linked to
the local level strategies developed at project sites). The development of this plan will be supported by an
internationally recruited technical assistant. As part of this process, industry professionals from potential
international markets will be invited to visit project sites with a view to brokering arrangements for tours to
subsequently include these sites in their itineraries.
C.     The project implementation mechanism described in section C2 of the main text is also included
in this component.
- 33 -



Sequencing of Activities
The expected sequencing of project activities is illustrated in the following chart (note that the marketing
activities are not expected to begin until 2003 and therefore do not appear in the timetable):
2002                              [20
ID   Task Name                                         M|J|JASOND DJFM|A  M  J J|A|S|ONID[J
57       Integrated Site Development                                                                            II
58           Initial Pilot Site
59               Social Assessment
60                   Advertise                         2
61                   Select
62                   Implement
63               Public Outreach Campaign
64               Establish Berovo Working Group
65               Prequaliflcation of proposals
66               TA to promoters of prequalified proposals
67               Selection of sub-projects
68               Implementation of sub-projects                    r
69               Stakeholder Assessment Workshop
70           Pilot Sites                                                    EJ
71               Public Outreach Campaign
72               Prequalification of proposals
73               TA to promoters of prequalified proposals
74               Selecton of clusters of sub-projects
75               Social Ass zssments
76               Implementation of sub-projects
77            Local Level Management
78               Implement local-level CB program                                                                I
79       Institutional Development
80           Establish Prr,;ct Implementation Mechanism
81           Establish FM System
82               Advertise                             2
83               Hire                                   5/2
84               Train
85           Establish M&E System
86           Establish EA System
87           Inventory of Cultural Assetts
88           Handicrafts Assessment
89           Toursm Assessment
90           Marketing
91               Design and set up
92               "Brokering" mission
93               Other activities TBD
- 34 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND
CULTURE PROJECT (LIL)
Local       Foreign        Total
Projed Cost By Component                 US $million   US $million   US $million
Integrated Site Dcvelopmcnt                                5.00          0.20         5.20
Institutional Development                                  0.50          0.42         0.92
Total Baseline Cost                                        5.50          0.62         6.12
Physical Contingencies                                    0.00          0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                       0.00          0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs               5.50         0.62          6.12
Total Financing Required               5.50          0.62         6.12
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                US $million   US $mIllion   US $million
Goods                                                        0.02          0.08          0.10
Works                                                                                    0.00
Services                                                     0.15          0.37          0.52
Training, Workshops, Study Tours                             0.00          0.06          0.06
Operating Costs                                              0.25          0.00          0.25
Small Grants                                                 4.94          0.00          4.94
PPF Reinbursement                                            0.14          0.11          0.25
Total Project Costs      5.50          0.62          6.12
Total Financing Required      5.50           0.62         6.12
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0.54 (US$m) and the total project cost. net of taxes, is 5.58 (US$M). Therefore. the project cost sharing ratio is 89.65% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 35 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND
CULTURE PROJECT (LIL)
In order to achieve its objectives the project will improve the management of cultural assets and leverage
these assets to create handicraft and tourism industries in areas adjacent to cultural heritage sites. This will
result in substantial monetary and non-monetary economic benefits at the project sites.
Since this is a demand driven project, it is impossible to determine beforehand exactly what activities will
be financed. Therefore this economic analysis is for the project pilot site (Berevo) and it is assumed that
the other sites will produce similar results. Also, in keeping with the nature of this project as a Learning
and Innovation Loan, further economic analysis is to be carried out as part of the monitoring and
evaluation component during project implementation. The remainder of this section describes in greater
detail the benefits expected to accrue at the pilot site.
The primary monetary benefits of the project will come from increased tourist visits and expenditures on
food and lodging (e.g., new bed and breakfasts serving traditional cuisine), new activities (e.g., guided
monument tours, horse back riding, cross country skiing), and new handicrafts (e.g., wood carving,
engraving, knitting). Both domestic and international tourist visits are expected to increase as site
management plans are put in place and site promotion is increased. An indicative cost benefit analysis at
the Berevo pilot site yields an economic rate of return of 18 percent. This does not include the benefits from
the projects's multiplier effect.
This economic analysis under-estimates the projects' benefits for several reasons. First, these benefits do
not include the multiplier effects that result from small and medium sized businesses in the service and craft
sector that will evolve to support the tourists. Second, it does not include many of the hard to quantify
benefits of the project. These benefits include the following:
1) Non-use values associated with the conservation of nature and culture.
2) Learning and innovation resulting from community based demand driven design of the project.
3) Indirect benefits of local infrastructure projects associated with the project, such as improving roads and
water and sanitation systems.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Benefits: Increased revenue from tourists, multiplier effect on local businesses, culture and nature
preservation resulting in non-use and option values from community learning and innovation.
Costs: Approximately US$I million per site (assuming 5 sites).
Main Assumptions:
The expected number of tourism visits and their expected expenditures. Scaling up of assumptions from
one pilot site to five project sites.
1) The number of visitors to the site will increase at a rate of 2 percent per year.
2) Expenditures for overnight visitors will increase from $20 to $30 per night.
3) Expenditures for daily visitors will increase from $5 to $15 per day.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Sensitivity analysis of these assumptions reveals that the analysis is most sensitive to changes in on site
expenditures of day visitors. If day visitor expenditures only increase from $5 to S 10, then the internal rate
- 36 -



of return falls from 18 to 4 percent. The internal rate of return is much less sensitive to other changes in
expected outcomes. For example, if overnight visitor expeditures remain fixed at $20 per night, the internal
rate of return drops from 18 to 14 percent. If the rate of change in the expected number of daily visitors to
the site drops from 2 percent to 0 percent, then internal rate of return drops from 18 to 14 percent. If the
rate of change for overnight visitors drops from percent to 0 percent then the internal rate of return drops
from 18 to 17 percent.
Berevo Economic Analysis
Assumptions                  Without    With
Project    Project
Overnight visits               1,370      1,370  nights per year
Overnight Expediture              20        30  $ per night
Change in overnight visitation    0%        2%  per year
Daily visits                  10,000     10,000  days per year
Daily Expenditure                  5         15  S per day
Discount rate                               8%  per year
Change in daily visitation        0%        2%  per year
Project Year                       1          2         3          4         5        6           15
With Project
Total Overnight visits        1,370      1,397      1,425     1,454    1,483    1,513  ...   1,808
Total Daily visits           10,000     10,200     10,404    10,612   10,824   11,041  ...  13,195
Without Project
TotalOvernightvisits          1,370      1,370      1,370     1,370    1,370    1,370  ...   1,370
Total Daily visits           10,000     10,000     10,000    10,000   10,000   10,000  ...  10,000
Incremental Project Costs   250,000   250,000   250,000   250,000
Incemental Project Benefits    113,700    117,522    121,420    125,397  129,453  133,590  ... 174,752
Net Benefits                (136,300)  (132,478)  (128,580)  (124,603) 129,453  133,590  ...  174,752
Net Present Value            343,152
Internal Rate of Refurn          18%
- 37 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND
CULTURE PROJECT (LIL)
Years Ending
US$ million
Year 1      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5       Year 6       Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs                 1.0          1.6          1.6          1.6          0.0          0.0         0.0
Recurrent Costs                  0.1          0.1          0.1           0.0                      0.0         0.0
Total Project Costs                1.1           1.7          1.7          1.6         0.0          0.0         0.0
Total Financing                     1.1          1.7          1.7          1.6         0.0          0.0         0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                        0.9           1.4          1.4          1.3         0.0         0.0          0.0
Government                      0.2          0.2          0.1          0.2          0.0         0.0          0.0
Central                     0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0
Provincial                  0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0
Co-financiers Italian TF        0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries         0.0          0.1          0.2          0.1          0.0         0.0          0.0
Others                          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0
Total Project Financing           1.1           1.7         1.7           1.6         0.0         0.0          0.0
Main assumptions:
Govemment will contribute about 6% of project costs in cash or in kind towards cultural preservation activities under the grant
program (US$180,000) and PCU operating costs (US$159,000). Grant recipients (beneficiaries) will contribute about 4% of
project costs (in cash or in kind and in addition to tax payments) towards activities supported by the Grant, as required under the
eligibility criteria.
Local taxes will be covered in part by the beneficiaries and in part by the government (for activities with high cultural preservation
value or high national benefit and PCU operations).
- 38 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND
CULTURE PROJECT (LIL)
Procurement
Procurement of goods and works will be done in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Procurement
under the IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (issued in January 1995, revised January and August 1996,
September 1997, and January 1999). Consulting Services, technical assistance and training will be
procured in accordance with the Guidelines - Selection and Employment of consultants by World Bank
Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. The Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents, Request for Proposals and Forms of Consultants' Contract will be used. A General
Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the Development Business of the UN in June 2001.
Procurement Responsibility
The project will be implemented over a four year period. The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) will be
responsible for the general directives, periodical progress review, and annual planning for the
implementation of the project. The PCU has been established under the Project Preparation Facility Fund
(PPF) Grant number IDA Q 268 - 0 MK. On March 15, 2001 the Bank approved an advance in the
amount of US$ 250,000, to be used primarily to establish the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and carry
out social and needs assessments as well as an outreach campaign in the pilot site of Berovo. The PCU
will be responsible for the procurement activities of the project. The PCU will be located in the Ministry of
Culture's (MOC) offices and will consist of a Project Director, the Project Manager, a Procurement
Specialist, a Secretary, an Institutional Learning and Monitoring Specialist, a Community Development
Specialist, and a Cultural Assets Specialist. The Project Director will report to the MOC on a biweekly
basis. The Project Director has been appointed. All other candidates such as the Procurement Officer and
the Accountant will be selected on a competitive basis. A Procurement Officer with international
experience, preferably with World Bank Guidelines and procurement procedures, will be selected. The
PCU will coordinate and provide management oversight for procurement at the local level.
Procurement methods (Table A)
The project includes procurement of goods, and services. Under the sub-grants, procurement of equipment,
works, technical services and individual consultants may be required. A detailed procurement plan for these
needs has been prepared and included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). During project
implementation, the procurement plan will be updated every six months. The project procurement
arrangements are shown in Table A below.
Thresholds for Procurement Methods
The following thresholds are proposed (the aggregates are given in the footnotes to Table A):
(i) National Shopping = Less than US$50,000 per contract (based on obtaining a minimum of three
quotations from domestic suppliers);
(ii) Small works = Less than US$50,000 per contract.
Grants: The procurement of goods, civil works technical and consulting services for grants will be
undertaken using Community Participation in accordance clause 3.15 of the Procurement Guidelines.
The Operations Manual provides more details on the type of procedures to be used in this regard.
- 39 -



Consulting Services
Contracts for project auditing, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, will be
procured following the Least Cost Selection (LCS) method. Contracts estimated at less than USS100,000
each for consulting services will be procured following the Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications
(CQ) method. Individual consultants will be selected in accordance with Part V of the Consultants
Guidelines. All individual contracts will be advertised. The aggregate amounts for consultants services are
shown in the footnotes to Table A.
Grants to Beneficiaries - Community Participation in Procurement
Two lines of financing for grants are included for procurement of goods, works and technical services. The
main grant fund will be for sub-projects on the order of US$3,000 to $30,000. A second group, a
Community Service Fund, will be for grants under $500 each, for community services or student's projects
related to cultural heritage that will not exceed 5% of the total grants.
The process, guidelines, and procedures for grants are described in Annex 2 and in the Project
Implementation Plan.
For the main grant fund, each sub-project proposal will be required to submit a Qualification Criteria
Questionnaire and a simple Procurement Plan (PP). Qualification Criteria Questionnaires will be designed
to assess the beneficiaries' capacity to undertake the procurement activities under the Grant. The
Procurement Plan would be expected to include the following information:
1. Project name
2. Location
3. Description of items to be purchased
4. Type of purchase (goods/civil works/technical services/materials)
5. Method ofpurchase
3. Estimated amount ofpurchase
4. Source of purchase e.g. suppliers, contractors, consultant
5. Tentative schedule of purchase
6. Beneficiary's bank's name, address and number
If such sub-project procurement needs exceed the proposed threshold of $2,500, the PCU will assist the
beneficiaries to procure the goods, works, or technical services in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
If the sub-project procurement needs are less than $2,500, the beneficiaries will be provided cash to
procure their needs directly, but could receive procurement assistance from the PCU. In such case the
beneficiaries will be required to obtain at least three quotations and confirm the recommended award to the
lowest quote. Beneficiaries will be required to provide documentation to PCU. The PCU will be
responsible for monitoring the procurement handled by the beneficiaries to ensure compliance with Bank's
guidelines .
A Community Service Fund will provide small grants up to $500 for community services such as Park
cleaning, scouts' activities, and student projects related to cultural and natural heritage. Just as described
above, the PCU will manage the disbursement of these funds directly to the recipients. The amount and
activities being small, there is no requirement for providing a procurement plan nor a qualification criteria
questionnaire.
More details procedures on procurement under grants will be provided in the Operational Manual, which
will be part of the PIP.
- 40 -



Incremental Operating Costs
The Credit will finance part of the incremental operations costs of about US$0.31 million of the PCU to
coordinate and administer the project. These will be incurred in accordance to an annual budget that the
PCU will prepare and submit to the Bank for its approval before any expenditures are incurred.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalents)
Procurement Method I
Expenditure Category                  ICB         NCB        Other 2       N.B.F.       Total Cost
1.  Goods                                   -           -          0.10                        0.10
(0.08)                     (0.08)
2.  Consultant Services                     -           -           0.48        0.04           0.52
(0.48)       (0.00)        (0.48)
3.  Grants                                   -          -           4.56         0.38          4.94
(4.09)       (0.00)        (4.09)
4.  Training, Workshops, Study               -          -           0.06                       0.06
Tours                                                         (0.06)                     (0.06)
5.  Incremental Operating Costs             -           -           0.25                       0.25
(0.04)                     (0.04)
6.  PPF Reimbursement                        -          -           0.25          -            0.25
(0.25)                     (0.25)
TOTAL          -           -          5.70         0.42          6.12
(5.00)       (0.00)        (5.00)
l) Figures in parentheses are the amouLnts to be financed by the IDA credit. All costs include contitngencies.
2) The "Other" category includes. for the following expenditure categories:
- Goods: NS contracts ($0.080 million)
- Consulting Services: LC contract (SO.060 million), CQ contracts ($0.100 million), individual consultants
contracts (SO.32t) million).
- Grants: sub-grants ($4,093 million); the size of the grants varies from $5,00() to $30.000.
- Trainitng: Includes training. workshops and study tours ($0.06() million); this will be carried out
according to a traininig plan. which the PCU will revise semi-annually and submit to the IDA for approval
before implementationi.
- Incremental Oper-ating Costs: operating costs for the PCU. consisting of office consumables. fuel, vehicle
maintenance and repair ($0.040 million)
- PPF Reimbursement: Includes the cost of the advance from the Project Preparation Facility for this
project (S0.25() million).
Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
- 41 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expernditure Category   QCS    QCBS    SFB    LCS      CQ     Other   N.B.F.  Total Cost
A. Firms              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.06     0.10    0.00    0.04      0.20
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.06)   (0. 10)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.16)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.32    0.00      0.32
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.32)  (0.00)   (0.32)
Total  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.06     0.10    0.32    0.04      0.52
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.06)   (0.10)  (0.32)  (0.00)   (0.48)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 42 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior review thresholds are as follows:
(a) Grants: First four grant proposals;
(b) Goods: First two NS packages;
(c) Works: first two SW packages;
(d) Consulting Services:
*   Bank prior review will be required for all terms of reference, irrespective of the contract value.
* All contracts with consulting firms or NGOs estimated to cost US$40,000 or more per
contract.
* All consultant contracts with individuals estimated to cost US$25,000 or more per contract.
Post Review
All contracts not subject to the Bank's prior review will be subject to ex-post review, on a selective basis.
One out of five contracts for goods, technical services and consulting services will be subject to ex-post
review. Supervision missions will include a procurement specialist especially in the first year, whose main
responsibility will be to conduct ex-post reviews of the procurement process and documentation, and
provide his or her findings.
[N.B. Technical services are services that are bid and contracted on the basis of performance of a
measurable physical output and for which the procurement guidelines for goods apply.]
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                  Contracts Subject to
Threshold               Procurment               Prior Revew
Expenditure Category       (US$ thousands)              Method                 (US$ milions)
1. Works                          <50                      MW                        NA
2. Goods                          <50                      NS                        0.08
3. Services                      <100                      LCS                       0.06
CQ                       0.10
Individuals                 0.00
4. Sub-grants                  four first                                            0.08
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    US$0.32million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-43 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category       L Amount in US$million          Financing Percentage
Grants                                      4.09                          100%
Goods                                       0.08           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures, ex-factory cost, and
80% local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Consulting Services                         0.48                          100%
In Country Training and Workshops           0.02                          100%
Study Tours Abroad                          0.04                          100%
Incremental Operating Costs                 0.04                          50%
PPF                                         0.25                          100%
Total Project Costs                         5.00           _
Total                                       5.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Reimbursement of expenditures made from the Special Account may be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs), for the following items:
o   Goods and technical services: contracts amounting to less than US$50,000 per contract.
-   Consulting services-firms: contracts amounting to less than US$40,000 per contract
C Consulting services-individuals: contracts amounting to less than USS25,000 per contract.
* Training and operating costs: all contracts.
Full documentation in support of SOEs would be retained by the PCU for at least two years after the
closing date of the credit. This information would be made available for review by Bank missions during
project supervision and by auditors. The minimum application size for payments directly from the grant
account or for issuance of Special Commitments is 20 percent of the special account authorization.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the PCU will establish, maintain, and operate, under conditions
acceptable to IDA, a Special Account denominated in US dollars in the National Bank of the Republic of
Macedonia. The maximum authorized allocation of the Special Account will be limited to US$ 400,000
(S800,000 if withdrawals are made on the basis of Promect Management Reports). Replenishment
applications should be submitted at least every three months and must include reconciled bank statements
as well as other appropriate supporting documents. The special account will be established in a
commercial bank in FYR Macedonia or abroad on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
The selected bank should have: (a) significant foreign correspondence network covering all currencies; (b)
reasonable capacity and experience for issuing letters of credit, for making direct foreign payments and
other intemational transactions; (c) capacity to perform a wide range of banking services at local branches,
including cash payments, transfers to other domestic or regional banks, issuance of banking services at
- 44 -



local branches, including cash payments, transfers to other domestic or regional banks, issuance of debit
notes, application of conversion rates from foreign currencies; (d) the capacity to maintain adequate
accounts for the Special Account as required by the World Bank and provide monthly bank statements to
the PCU; (e) willingness to issue a Comfort Letter to ensure that amounts deposited in the Special Account
would not be set off or otherwise seized or attached to satisfy amounts due to a commercial bank by the
Borrower; and (f) willingness to charge competitive rates for their services and provide reasonable interest
income to the balances held.
The initial allocation to the Special Account would be limited to US$ 200,000. The initial allocation may
be increased up to the authorized allocation of US$ 400,000 once aggregate disbursements of SDR 1
million are reached by submitting the relevant withdrawal applications. Replenishment applications should
be submitted at least every three months and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other
appropriate supporting documents. Project accounts would be operated for discrete activities and funded
from the Special Account based on disbursement applications signed by the authorized officials.
Financial Mananement
The financial management system of the project will be operated by an external accounting consultant. This
consultant will follow the PCU's directives in handling the accounting, reporting, planning, budgeting and
disbursement arrangements and will set up the system according to Bank and local legislation's
requirements.
The financial management system for the project (FMS), including accounting, reporting, planning,
budgeting, auditing, disbursement and proper internal control systems (including the grants scheme), was
established, by the external accountant, as a condition of credit approval.
Although the system will be outsourced to an external accounting consultant, the PCU will remain fully
responsible for all financial management aspects of the project.
The Bank's Financial Management Specialist has assessed the project's FMS and certified that it is
compatible with the Bank's OP/BP 10.02, the Project Financial Management Manual and the Loan
Administrative Change Initiative (LACI) Implementation Handbook. The development of the FMS will be
monitored by the Bank before effectiveness, during the first supervision missions and throughout project
implementation.
In order to facilitate the accounting consultant's reporting requirements, the PCU will purchase accounting
software, that will be used by the consultant for the purpose of the project but will remain part of the assets
of the project. The software will be user friendly, adaptable to the project's needs and able to produce all
the Project Management Reports required by the Bank.
Considering the limited time available to implement the project's financial management system, the PCU
needed to appoint an accounting consultant with previous experience in Bank-financed projects. The
consultant has (i) set up the financial management system of the project, (ii) customized the accounting
procedures to the Project Appraisal Document, and (iii) prepared the project's Accounting Manual in draft.
The Accounting Manual details, amongst other things, the financial management procedures and internal
controls.
Due to the fact that the project will be managing grants that will be donated to local communities with -
very likely - low accounting capacity, the accounting consultant will be also responsible (i) to design a
simple accounting and reporting system that will be adopted by each beneficiary and (ii) set up a simple
monitoring/control system for each of these grants (since no formal audit will be required for these Grants).
The PCU will maintain all documentation and accounting records related to project. The PCU will also be
responsible for all payments (including petty cash), handling the Special Account (SA) and the Project
- 45 -



Accounts (PAs - Government contributions), prepare all bidding documents, reporting both to the Bank and
the Government, planning, budgeting, disbursement, and auditing.
The Project will initially disburse under the Bank's traditional Statement of Expenditure (SOE) method,
with the option of moving to the Project Management Reports (PMR)-based disbursement method only
after the borrower's request and with the mutual agreement of the Bank.
Flow of Funds
The PCU will be in charge of operating the Special Account. The PCU will use a separate Project Account
for the Government contributions.
For the grants that will donated by the project to local communities, it will be requested that each of the
beneficiaries will open a bank account to which the funds will be transferred from the project's Special
Account.
Internal Controls.
The PCU and the accounting consultant will have to set up a sound internal control system, to ensure that
project funds are used with economy and efficiency and only for the purposes intended. These procedures
will be documented in the Accounting Manual. The PCU will report to the Ministry of Culture and will
inform both the MOC and the World Bank in a timely manner about project implementation and progress.
All PCU staff and the accounting consultant must become familiar with the World Bank regulations (legal,
disbursement, procurement, financial management, etc.) applicable to their relevant areas.
The PCU will follow the procedures set up in the Project Implementation Plan.
Auditing
The accounts and financial statements of the project will be audited by independent intemational auditors
acceptable by the Bank. The auditor will be appointed by the PCU and the audited annual project financial
statements will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of every fiscal year. The audit will be
carried out in accordance with International Standards of Auditing. The audit will be comprehensive and
cover all aspects of the project and the Terms of Reference of the auditors should include both an audit of
financial transactions and an assessment of the operation of the financial management system, including the
review of the internal control mechanisms. The PCU and the consultant will provide the auditor with access
to project-related documents and records, and information required by the auditor for the purpose of the
audit.
Implementation Schedule
The project will be implemented over a four year period.
Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance Requirement Review
(a)    Legal Aspects. The PCU has been established within the Ministry of Culture as part of the
Ministry. The national laws and regulations apply to the PCU and the Ministry of Culture. They are all
subject to the public procurement and related laws of the country. The basic legal structure that governs
public procurement in the country is based on state law on procurement. The law has some inconsistencies.
However, it is worth mentioning here that the procurement laws and regulations are not applicable to
Bank-financed projects.
(b)    Procurement Cycle Management. The PCU has no experience in the procurement cycle
management and in managing and implementing World Bank financed projects. However PCU will gain
- 46 -



experience under the PPF in procurement methods such as NS and selection of consultants based on CQ
and individuals methods. PCU is in the process to select a full time procurement officer who has experience
in intemational procurement preferably in the World Bank procedures, guidelines and projects. PCU staff,
particularly the procurement officer, may need training in procurement. There would be a need to monitor
and update original procurement plan during supervision missions.
(c)    Organization and Functions. The procurement officer in the PCU will be responsible for the
following tasks under the direction of the Project Director:
*  Assist the PCU in understanding and application of the World Bank's guidelines, policies and
procedures.
*   Arrange appropriate advertising in Development Business and other media for the procurement
of works, goods, and services required for the project.
* Prepare, review, and modify the bidding documents for works, goods and services.
* Determine and provide for a nominal fee for receiving the bidding documents to prospective
bidders, crediting the funds received to the Borrower's account.
*   Conduct the procurement process for each contract initiating with the preparation of bidding
documents, receiving no-objection from the World Bank, and invitation of bids.
*   Provide clarifications in response to potential bidders' questions; and prepare any amendments, if
necessary.
* Conduct the bid opening process and prepare the minutes of bid opening.
* Evaluate the bids (and proposals) and submit a bid evaluation report to the PCU Director with
recommendations for awarding the contract, review the draft contract, and obtain the "No
objection" for the evaluation report and draft contract from the World Bank.
*  Prepare correspondence and coordinate with the World Bank, regarding its approval of the
proposed contract awards, following the PCU recommendations. Ensure the forwarding of two
copies of signed contracts to the World Bank to facilitate disbursement.
*   Assist the PCU in the processing of IDA credit withdrawal applications and disbursement
procedures.
*   Help with correspondence and actions needed with the designated bank for handling payment
mechanisms for the goods ordered, and enabling withdrawal of credit and loan proceeds from
IDA.
* Develop a procurement tracking system for use by the project management unit.
* Conduct one day seminars for the beneficiaries at different project sites to explain the methods
of procurement to be used in procurement by the beneficiaries.
*   Post audit the documents for procurement for the beneficiaries and maintain records.
*   Review and revise the procurement plan following the agreed procurement methods as part of
the Credit Agreement indicating the detailed step-by-step procedures for the procurement of
works, goods, and services required for the implementation of this project.
(d)    Support and Control Aspects. The PCU will have financial and technical support. The technical
experts selected under technical assistance will provide relevant support. PCU will receive support from the
Ministry of Culture's administration and legal section when required. The PCU is subject to regular audits
-47 -



by the State Audit Office (SAO). However the project will also be subject to independent audits by private
auditors according to the Bank's requirements. Ethics norms for civil servants and anti-corruption
legislation apply to the PCU.
(e)    Record Keeping: The PCU is subject to government regulations on record-keeping of documents
of importance. The PCU will follow the World Bank requirements of maintaining a complete record of the
process and will be subject to audit by supervision missions periodically.
Risk Analysis
The PCU will operate in a public procurement environment, which is not often transparent and competitive.
The PCU is newly formed under the PPF and has no experience in the procurement cycle and in managing
and implementing World Bank financed projects. PCU will be staffed with Procurement Officer under the
PPF and will gain some experience in small procurements. However this is not adequate to undertake the
procurement activities for the project. Therefore, procurement under this project has been put in the
high-risk category.
In addition to the risk of delays in procurement that may be caused by frequent changes in government
policies and priorities, the following are some other potential risks that may result in procurement delays:
* The borrower may not be able to appoint qualified and experienced procurement staff in a timely
manner (i.e. before effectiveness).
* Lack of understanding of the procurement requirements on the part of those involved in project
implementation, especially the decision makers.
* Inadequate supply side response for goods, works, and technical services contracts to be bid locally.
The paragraphs below include an action plan to mitigate these risks.
Recommendations
Based on the findings and recommendations of the assessment of the capacity of the implementation agency
to conduct procurement, the Borrower will undertake the following action plan:
(i) A Procurement Officer with suitable educational background and experience in International
Procurement, preferably familiar with World Bank procurement procedures and guidelines, will be
appointed on a competitive basis, in the PCU as part of the activities financed under the PPF
advance.
(ii) Immediately after Board approval the Bank staff will prepare a procurement book containing all
procurement related documents, including Standard Bidding Documents, both in paper and
electronic copies, and send it to the PCU.
(iii) Around credit effectiveness, a project launch workshop will be held for the PCU staff and involved
agencies in project implementation. During this project launch workshop adequate time (a
minimum of three days ) will be spent on procurement training of the PCU staff. During this
project launch workshop, the contents of the procurement book will be discussed.
(iv) The Director and the procurement officer will be given additional training in Turin or in
Washington to enhance their knowledge of procurement. They should also attend seminars offered
by the World Bank at regional locations.
(v) A computerized procurement monitoring system will be set up with PPF financing and continue to
be used during implementation of the credit.
(vi) During supervision missions, the conduct of procurement under the project will be reviewed in light
- 48 -



of the potential procurement risks, and recommendations made if necessary, to improve the
procurement process.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status:
CPAR under preparation.
Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of thefirst year ready by negotiations?
Yes            No [xl
Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date of    Estimated date of    Indicate if there is  Domestic Preference   Domestic
Project Launch       publication of       procurement subject   for Goods            Preference for
Workshop             General Procurement  to mandatory SPN in                        works if
Notice               Development                                applicable
Business
08/00 /01            06/00/01             Yes []               Yes(
No (X)               No (X)                Yes
No (X)
Retroactive financing:             Advance procurement:
Yes []          No [X]             Yes []        No [X]
Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in
the Project: Naushad Khan, Senior Procurement Specialist, Ext: 32699
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement: None
- 49 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND
CULTURE PROJECT (LIL)
Project Schedule:e                                 Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                     16
First Bank mission (identification)                                           02/08/2000
Appraisal mission departure                      12/10/2000                   03/12/2001
Negotiations                                     01/28/2001                   05/07/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    07/16/2001                   07/27/2001
Prepared by:
Project Steering Committee and its Working Group
Preparation assistance:
Preparation benefitted from an advance from the Project Preparation Facility.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Barlas, Dilek                     Senior Counsel
Battaglini, Emilia                Co-Task Team Leader, Senior Operations Officer
Bomani, Irene                     Program Assistant
Cemerska, Rajna                   Operations Officer
Chistyakov, Nicholay              Senior Disbursement Officer
Galliano, Elena                   Social Assessment, Consultant
Gruss, Hans Jurgen                Chief Counsel
Khan, Naushad                     Senior Procurement Specialist
Duer, Kreszentia M.               Peer Reviewer, Leader for Cultural Assets for Poverty Reduction
Lampietti, Julian                 Economic Analysis
Maho, Arben                       Procurement Analyst
Marc, Alexandre                   Sector Manager, Social Development
Nathan, Bremala                   Operations Assistance, Consultant
Dongier, Philippe                 Peer Reviewer, Senior Private Sector Development Specialist
Sawyerr-Dunn, Daphne              Program Assistant
Sigrist, Kenneth                  Institutional Learning, Consultant
Singh, Gurdev                     Procurement, Consultant
Suleymanov, Samir                 Operations Analyst
Soubbotin, Nikolai                Senior Counsel
Taboroff, June                    Cultural Resource Specialist, Consultant
Tikare, Seema                     Institutional Assessment, Consultant
Varnalieva, Jasmina               Project Officer
Woodward, Mark                    Co-Task Team Leader, Senior Social Development Specialist
- 50 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND
CULTURE PROJECT (LIL)
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Institutional Capacity Assessment
Procurement Capacity Assessment
C. Other
TORs:
PCU Director
Community Development Specialist
Cultural Assets Specialist
Financial Management Specialist
Institutional Learning and M&E Specialist
Procurement Specialist
Cultural Tourism Assessment
Handicrafts Assessment
National Inventory of Cultural Sites
*Including electronic files
- 51 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND CULTURE
PROJECT (LIL)
May-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                   disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                            IBRD          IDA                            Cancel.   Undisb.          Orig   Frm Rev'd
P070089        2001 TRADE & TRANS FACIL IN SE EUR                           0.00        9.30                              0.00        8.85        0.08       0.00
P042400        2001 FESAL 2                                                30.31      20.00                               0.00       39.83       -0.18       0.00
P066221         1999 SOCIAL SUPPORT                                         0.00       10.00                              0.00        4.92        2.15       0.00
P058056         1999 PENSION REF TA                                         0.00        1.00                              0.00        0.30        0.27       0.00
P050589         1999 TRANSPORT                                             32.00        0.00                              0.00       14.42       14.40       0.00
P038399         1998 IRRIG REHAB                                            7.50        5.00                              0.00        8.54        3.11       2.49
P042399         1998 POWER                                                 35.00        0.00                              0.29       25.71        6.47       0.00
P034609         1998 PSD II                                                25.00        0.00                              0.00       10.07        4.93       0.00
P036089         1996 HEALTH SECT TRANSTN                                    0.00       16.90                              0.00        7.94        9.40       0.00
P010001         1996 PRIV FARMER SUPPORT                                    0.00        7.90                              0.00        2.10        2.76       0.36
Total:       129.81       70.10                              0.29       122.67      43.38        2.85
- 52 -



FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1999               Alkaloid                       0.00    0.00    8.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.91    0.00
1998               Macedonia Telcom              25.00    0.00    0.00    20.00   25.00    0.00      0.00   20.00
1997               Makedonija                     3.21     0.00    0.00    0.00    3.21    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997               Nikol-Fert                     3.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.30    0.00       0.00    0.00
1997               SEF Masinomont                 0.67    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.67    0.00       0.00    0.00
1999               SEF SEAF Macedon               0.00     2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.64      0.00    0.00
1997               SEF Teteks                     0.88    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.88    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998/00            Stopanska Banka                0.00     3.44    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.93      0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        33.56     5.94    8.10    20.00    33.06    3.57    3.91   20.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000               Alkaloid Incr.                    0.00      0.01      0.00      0.00
2001               Komercijalna                      4.66      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:         4.66      0.01      0.00      0.00
- 53 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND
CULTURE PROJECT (LIL)
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                               Macedonial Central   middte.                      -       .-.
FYR       Asia  income        Development diamond
1"99
Population, mid-year /millions)                         2.0        475     2.094                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method. US$)                    1,690      2,150     1.200
GNP tAtas method. USS billions)                          3.3    1t022      2.513
Aveoaqe annual Urowth. 1993-99
Pooulation (%)                                          0.7        0.1        1.1t
Labor force (%)                                          1.5       0.6       1,2      GNP            "                 Gross
per           .                 primary
Most recent estimate (slatest year available, 1993-9S)                                capita           .  .         enrollment
Povertv (% of population below national ooverty tine)
Urban population (% of total poDulation)                 62         67        43
Life exoectancy at birth (reors)                         73         69        69
Infant mortality (per 1 000 liYe births)                 16         22        33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                ..         8        1S                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)         ..        ..        86
Iltiteracy (% of population aoe 15+)                     ..          3        16
Gross primary enrollment (% of schoolage population)     99        100       114               Macodonia FYR
Male                                                  100       101        114               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                 98         99       116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     19*9       19S6      1999                       - --
Economic ratios-
GDP WUSS billions)                              ,,         ,       3.4       3.5
Gross domestic investmentUGDP                    ..      ..       25.5      21.4                      Trade
Exports of goods andt services/GOP               ..      ..       40,6      411.5
Gross domestic savines/GDP                      ..       ..        8.6       7.1
Gross national saviRsQsGDP                       .1 .             16.8       17.3
Current account balance/GDP                      ..       ..       -8.9      -3.9     Domestic
Interest cayfmeitsIGOP                           ..      ..        1.9        1.7     Domesti                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                                  ..        .       69.4      45.4      Savings          .            n       t
Total debt servIce/expOrts                      ..         .       9.9       12.7
Present valtue of debtUGOP                       ..      ..       62.4
Present value of debt/exports                    .        ..    148.8
Indebtedness
1979-89  19S9-99     1996       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                    ..    -0.8       2.9        2,7       5.3             Macdonia, FYR
GNP oer capita                                 0.3      2.2        2.3       4.8                Lower-middle-income group
ExDorts of goods and services          ..      3.1     11.2        2.5       7,t
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1t979    1989       1998      1999      Growth of tnvestment and GOP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                            4D
Agriculture                                      .        ..      12.4       11.6
Industry                                        ..       ..       33.0      32.6      20-
Manufacturinq                                 ..        ..         ..        ..
Services                                         ..       ..      54.6      55.8       o
Private consumPtion                              ..      ..       73.8      73.8    .20 -       .
General government consumDtion                  1..      ..        7.6      19.0               -GDI             t-GDP
lmDorts of aoods and services                   ..       ..       57.5      55.7
(average annual growth)                    1979-89  1989-99      1998       1999    [Growth of exports and imports (%)
Aericulture                                     ..    -0.4         3.0       0.7    30
Industry                                               -5.9        3.9       0.4
Manufacturinq                                  ..       ..         ..        ..   15
Services                                         ..     0.8        2.3       4.5                               5 _5
Private consumption                              ..     0.7        3.2       3.3
General government consumption                  ..    -0.3         4.1      10.1
Gross domestic investment                       ..      2.2        7.4     -16.5     - 5
Imports of goods and services                   ..      7.2       12.2      -2.8                   Exports     tImports
Gross national product                          ..      1.1        3.2       2.7
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv fin bold) compared with its income-group averaoe. If data are missing. the diamond will
be incomolete.
- 54 -



Macedonia, FYR
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1980       1008     1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% chanqe)                                                                           400
Consumer prices                                                    0 8      -1.1     300
Implicit GDP deflator                                              0.2      -0.3     200
Government ftnance                                                                   100 -
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                   o
Current revenue                                                   34.0      36.3    -100      94   95   96   97   98    9
Current budget balance                                             0.1       0.8            -G OP deflator  --CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                           -1.8       0.0
TRADE
1079     199        190N     1090      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                              1,292     1,192     ,000 
Raw materials                                                     56        50
Food                                                              66        68     1,50
Manufactures                                                   1,043      867
Total imports (cif)                                              1,914     1,796     1,    i                         *
Food                                                             256  208 s5oo iM..
Fuel and energy                                                  163       158
Capital goods                                                    212      366         0
Export pnce index (1995=100)                                       87        84
Import price index (1995=100)                                      78       124                  *Exports      * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                         112        68
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                         1069      1N9       1909      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                                    1,423     1,440      
Imports of goods and services                                    2,014     1,925
Resource balance                                                  -591     -485
.4
Net income                                                         44       -43
Net current transfers                                             327  392                    1111111
Current account balance                          ,                *308     -136      -B
Financing items (net)                           ,,       ,,       352       259
Changes in net reserves                                           -44      -123    -12
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ milliDns)          ..       ..       334       458
Conversion rate (DEC. locallUSS)                 ..      ..       55.3      56.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1970     1N9        198      19m
(US$ millions)                                                                       Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                             2,392     1,568
IBRD                                           .        .       115       110
IBDA                                                            17        223                   G: 134   A: 110
Total debt service                                                 143      183                                     223
IBRD                                                             12        10
IDA                                                               1         1
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                     C: 113
Official grants                                .        ..       28        65
Official creditors                                               71        61
Private creditors                                                91        -1
Foreign direct investment                                       118        27                                  D: 263
Portfolio equity                                                                            E: 318
World Bank program
Commitments                                                      65        92      A- IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 ,                  51        57      8 - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                                    ,         5         3      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                                        46        54
Interest payments                                                 9         8
Net transfers                                                    38        46
Development Economics
- 55 -



Additional
Annex 11
Monitoring and Evaluation for Institutional Learning
Participatory monitoring and institutional learning are fundamental to the process approach embodied in the
project in general, and the Integrated Site Development Component in particular. Learning mechanisms are
needed to enable corrections and improvements to keep the project on track. Mechanisms of institutional
learning will therefore be structured into all three tiers of the project process, involving elements of both
self assessment and feedback between levels.
As described in Annex 2, the Integrated Site Development Component is conceived as a three tiered
process. At the top is the national policy level, embodied in the Project's Steering Committee and its
Working Group. In the middle is the local strategy level, embodied in the Municipality and a Local
Working Group. On the bottom is the operational level, embodied in groups from the local population
who develop specific activities (sub-projects). Each level will monitor both its own performance and that at
the other levels. In this way, through a process of dialogue and collaborative decision-making, objectives
and processes will be adapted and improved. This process of learning is based on channeling the right kind
of infonnation to the right groups of people in the right way so that they can make the right decisions.
Project Logic
Level                                           Results
Sub-projects         1                         Project Outputs
(promoters)                        _
Local Strategy            _
(ucpiy   Local Worltg    n                           Pronxmate Outcomes
Group)   Wloocal impact)
National Policy                                Ultimate Outcomes
(National Steenrng Committee)                         (national impact)
Key. produces      - *                 reports to    -----
The key to institutional leaming is being able to compare different ways of doing things, and thereby draw
appropriate conclusions about improved practice. This will be done through: (i) consistently measuring
different aspects of activities and their results; (ii) comparing a range of activities and organizations; (iii)
identifying "leaders" and "laggards" (so that the laggards may learn from the leaders), and (iv) encouraging
mutual learning.
In order to enable consistent measurement and comparison of these aspects they have to be benchmarked.
Benchmarks are simply measurements of continuous change on important dimensions. Benchmarks will
measure outcomes which can be used for comparison across regions and activities. Note that benchmarks
are not targets, norms, or pre-determined milestones of progress, and above all they are not a tool for
central authorities to criticize local level performance. Rather they are measures of relationships and
- 56 -



change, which allow decision makers to take informed decisions.
Measurement is undertaken both to inform self assessment and to permit reporting to the next higher level.
Thus, as indicated in the diagram above, promoters of sub-projects are to report to the Municipal
Government through the Local Working Groups. Similarly, the Municipalities are to report to the Steering
Committee through the Project Coordination Unit. And the PCU, as representative of the Steering
Committee, will report to the World Bank. The appropriate periodicity of reporting will need to be defined
in practice. However, as a starting point, sub-project promoters should report on a monthly basis to the
Local Working Group. The latter should then report to the PCU on a quarterly basis.
So what is to be measured? Participatory monitoring and evaluation is necessarily a two-step process. The
first step is the definition of the information needed by stakeholders to allow their participation in the
project, including participation in measurement. The starting point for this first step is described below.
However, for monitoring and evaluation to be truly participatory, stakeholders need to define what they
want to have measured. The stakeholders should 'own' the benchmarks of 'their' processes so that they
will draw conclusions that are useful to them. Thus, the details of what is to be measured needs to be
worked out in a collaborative and participatory manner with the key stakeholders at the outset of project
implementation, and subsequently adapted in the light of experience. Therefore, the discussion of
measurement at the three levels that follows should be treated only as a starting point.
At the lowest or micro level is the "operational level", referring to the sub-projects and other activities that
are to be managed. Here the key actors are the promoters of sub-projects and other local-level activities.
They need to regularly evaluate their own performance and the outputs of their activities, both with respect
to their own goals and relative to others. They also need to monitor the support and inputs (both direct and
indirect) they receive from the other two levels. Appropriate initial indicators could be the following:
Initial Indicators for the Operational Level
Self Assessment:       (i) Output increases (e.g. numbers of visitors, hotel bed nights,
restaurant covers, walkers...)
(ii) Incremental gross revenues generated by subproject activities
(iii) Incremental net income generated by subproject activities
Assessment of the       (i) Program pipeline performance, against preset measures based on the
local level:            articulated strategy
(ii) Personnel and procedural changes at local level
(iii) Flows of resources channeled through local level
Assessment of the       (i) Perceptible changes of Policy direction and focus
national level:         (ii) Changes of (eligibility) rules and procedures
(iii) Announcements of successes, failures and problems as viewed by the
Policy level
As indicated in the Project Logic diagram above, this level feeds, not only into itself, but also up to the"
local strategy level" at Berovo and eventually other project sites. At this level community members and
leaders come together to take decisions regarding the coordination of activities in the area and to advance
the interests of the community as a whole. They are interested in the success of individual subprojects not
just because the promoters are their constituents but also because they want to see the ensemble of
activities in the local area contribute to the common good through local development. Thus they need to
monitor the outputs of subprojects to determine whether local strategies need adjusting. They need to ask
whether they are providing appropriate support to the operational level. And they need to monitor whether
or not they are receiving appropriate support from the national policy level. Thus initially they could begin
by monitoring the following indicators:
- 57 -



Initial Indicators for the Local Strategy Level
Self Assessment:        (i) Expansion of handicraft and artisan production activities
(ii) Emigration from region of high school graduates
(iii) Socially balanced participation in the program of subprojects
Assessment of the        (i) Changes in local awareness and response in relation to the project
operational level:       (ii) Group specific yield rates of applicants and candidates.
(iii) Rates and types of failures in program implementation
Assessment of the       (i)  Total resources (funds, expertise, mandates ... ) being disbursed or
national level:        released
(ii) The Policy Level Input/Output Ratio (ref. Al.)
(iii) PIU visits to Regions
This level must then feed up to the " national policy level", where policymakers must draw conclusions
and change the policy environment to better facilitate the attainment of project objectives, without
micromanaging lower levels. They are directly concemed that activities at the local level will serve to
facilitate the attainment of national policy goals. They are also concerned with ensuring that the overall
guidelines for project implementation remain appropriate. And finally, they need to report to the World
Bank on implementation progress and the achievement of development objectives. Therefore, in addition to
monitoring their own perfornance, they are interested in directly monitoring performance at the local level,
and in an aggregate sense, the performance at the operational level. Hence, the starting point for
monitoring at this level could be the following:
Initial Indicators for the National Policy Level
Self Assessment:       (i)  Incremental resources (money, labor time, and expertise) flowing
into cultural asset maintenance as a result of project activities
(ii) Increased domestic and foreign tourist visitor flow
(iii) Range of types and geographic spread of subproject activities
Assessment of the        (i) Speed of subproject implementation
operational level:       (ii) Application of technical knowledge and expertise by local levels
(iii) Mutual leaming processes across local level actors
Assessment of the        (i) Transparency of the Strategic decision process to the surrounding
local level:             community
(ii) Quality and condition of the subproject pipeline
=_________________      .(iii)Flow rate of innovations and new ideas
This three layer design permits a variety of different types of institutional learning to be achieved. In
particular, the reporting by the operating core to the strategic level focuses on how best to change processes
and outputs, while the reporting by the strategic level to the policy level focuses on how best to adjust
strategies and outcomes.
- 58 -



IBED 3141 0
FED. REP. OFJ 
YUGOSLAVIA                                                                                                                         4.FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF
(SERBIA/MONTENEGRO)                                                                 IIMACEDONIA
'T   KRIVA   NCOMMUNITYDELOMN
/ PALANKA *IDE LOMN
K,i-~~~p~~r                                                        AND CULTURE PROJECT
2  (  Segoaavee~~~~~~~~~~~  SKOPJE~~~~~~-..  I                           /        N.                                    LGA RI A   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~->~~~ EVERS/SULG RITRVRSEARAS
~~---  "       -. ~~~~PROBISTIP                          O-                                                       -- SECONDARY RODADS
TE~TV                                                                                            DEeEKPSLETECIE
~~N  N~  PEOTISEp)    K~~ocn  /  V  O.ECEVa                                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL
SV  vNNaaO E             REO        VPINNACAUNDRIE
o                1                                                             - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INITERPATIONAL EOUNDARESS
Gotvr1                                     -'\    '_\         \S
(  GOSTI VAR                                                           IL
Lake ~~~~~~~~~~~'  'I                                              .~~~~~~~~~~~~TIPovI
L avrvke P                     BRO)D        /SS*   \ RdvR '                                                               BEROVO                                                         I         S
I'                                ~~~~~~~                                               ~          ~    ~ ~~~~~VELE5  )  2                                               1                3 MLE
~~~od4N  KICE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4O  Bcod                                           R~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADOVIS  i'                                                Thd~ -p        A oolhao M oeDAooyoA T~  -k B.
/  N,                                    G~~~~~       ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~OTINO                                               t taehe,'   .don -p A~ --ply,aE -f ohy PonIon f   onWy -kG
'EN                                0RILEPLake                                                 -~~p1 oSOVAK REF -'-'   UKREAINE 0f5
-~~ ~~Krasev~~~                 r pTdo,                                                 "~AUSTRIA
STRILC, ~ ~    ~     ~        s)      ~       -                                                                                                                                  HUNGARY
OHR1D                                                                           D~~~~~~~                   ~~~~~~~~~    ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~oITO  'C~  A'SLOVENIAF 
Stru                                                                                                              Lake ~~~~~ ~ c        -'. 'CROATIA'~-LY                                ROMNI
.'    S   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~~~~~~~'                                                   T~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~  E~~~~~OSNIA ANDT/  o-
(    -, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'N. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HERZEGONLA.,
RESEtN                                             .GSAA
ALBANIA   ~ \oe                 / Rss/                      BT   BITOLA 4>k                                                                                                                             (   YUGOSLA'OVIAOO  UGAI         S
j',,                                                                                                                                 ol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s,
/N-..   Lak0  05150                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ITALY  /
~~~~~~respe  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~   -'  ---'                                                                                     AL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BANA;7
-a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ GR E E CE                                                                                                                            TURKEY
1)"                                                                                                             -< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,GREECE
Lake 
((Loke                                   )Le                                                                               Kra,
spa                                                                                                                                     LARIL SOUl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARL20



