Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3530 MK
Development Credit Agreement
(Community Development and Culture Project)
between
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
(the Borrower)
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association)
Dated February 5, 2002 
 CREDIT NUMBER 3530 MK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 5, 2002, between the Borrower and the Association.
Page  2
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the  
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the 
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through  October 6, 1999) with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, and the 
existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs 
(13) through (15):
“12.  ‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 194 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and ‘Participating Countries’ 
means, collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Beneficiary” means any group or association selected pursuant to criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual, which is a recipient or proposed to be a recipient of a Sub-grant (defined 
hereafter);  
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) set forth in the table 
in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
“Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures for works, goods and services referred to in 
Page  3
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
“MOC” means the Ministry of Culture of the Borrower or any successor thereto; 
(e)
“NGO” means non-governmental organizations;
(f)
“Operational Manual” means the operational manual to be adopted by the Borrower in 
accordance with paragraph 3 of Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such Operational 
Manual may be amended from time to time;
(g)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with Section 
4.02 of this Agreement;
(h)
”Project Coordination Unit” or “PCU” means the project coordination unit established 
within the MOC; 
(i)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(j)
“Sub-grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the PCU out of the 
proceeds of the Credit to a Beneficiary for a Sub-project (defined hereafter);
(k)
“Sub-grant Agreement” means the agreement to be concluded between the PCU 
and a Beneficiary in accordance with the provisions of Part B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(l)
“Sub-project” means a specific development project to be carried out by a 
Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-grant; 
(m)
“Steering Committee” means the steering committee of the Borrower referred to 
in Part B.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(n)
 “Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance granted 
by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter Agreement signed on behalf of the 
Association on March 14, 2001 and on behalf of the Borrower on         March 26, 2001. 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to four million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i)  expenditures made (or, if 
the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, and 
services required for the Project described and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; 
and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the PCU on 
account of withdrawals made by a Beneficiary under a Sub-grant to meet the reasonable cost of 
Page  4
goods, works and services required for the Sub-project under Part A of the Project in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to the Association the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of 
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the 
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time 
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15 and 
September 15 commencing September 15, 2011, and ending March 15, 2036. Each installment to 
and including the installment payable on March 15, 2021, shall be one and one-fourth percent 
(1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half 
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
Page  5
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower 
that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, 
provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of          the increase in the 
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant 
element obtained under the above-mentioned      repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through 
the MOC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, 
administrative, environmental and cultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual and the Implementation Program set forth 
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) by March 31, 2002, open the Project Account in a bank 
acceptable to the Association and deposit into said Account an initial amount equivalent to 
US$10,000; (b) thereafter maintain the Project Account, and replenish it annually, promptly after 
Page  6
the Borrower’s budget for the respective year is approved, with funds sufficient to enable the 
Borrower to meet its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement for such period; (c) use 
the amount in the Project Account exclusively for financing the Borrower’s contribution to 
Project expenditures; and (d) ensure that sufficient annual allocations will be made in the 
Borrower’s budget for the Borrower’s counterpart contribution to the costs of the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system including 
records and accounts and prepare financial statements in a format and in accordance with 
standards acceptable to the Association adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
Page  7
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said 
Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than June 30, 2002, or such later date as 
the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar 
quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Page  8
         Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely that, the  Operational Manual shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without the prior consent of the Association.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been 
given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Dame Gruev 14
1000 Skopje
Telex
Facsimile:
51119
(389-2) 117280
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
Page  9
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first above written.
BORROWER
By   
                    /s/ Nikola Gruevski
Authorized Representative
ASSOCIATION
By  
          /s/ Christiaan J. Poortman
Authorized Representative
Page  10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Sub-grants
3,250,000
100% 
(2)
Goods
70,000   
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 80% of local 
expenditures for other
items procured locally
  (3)
Consultants’ services,
380,000
100%
  (4)
In-country training
20,000
100%
  (5)
Study tours abroad
40,000
100%
  (6)
Incremental operating
40,000
50%
costs
Amount due pursuant
(7)
Refunding of 
to Section 2.02 (b) 
Preparation Advance
200,000
of this Agreement
 TOTAL
4,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
Page  11
(c)
the term “in-country training” means training activities (other than consultants’ services) 
to be carried out under the Project, including the cost of workshops and the local travel cost and 
per diem of the trainees; and 
(d)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the operating costs incurred by the 
PCU on account of Project implementation for Project-related auditing services, 
communications, utilities, office supplies and maintenance, fuel and vehicle operation and 
maintenance, and other reasonable and necessary activities directly related to Project 
implementation, management and monitoring as may be agreed upon by the Association.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) 
Sub-grants under Category (1) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above unless the Operational 
Manual referred to in paragraph 3 of Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement has been adopted by 
the Borrower.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) goods under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each; (ii) contracts for consulting firms costing less than $40,000 equivalent each; (iv) 
contracts for individual consultants costing less than $25,000 equivalent each; (v) operating 
costs, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower; and (vi) payments under Categories (1), (4) and (5) of the table set forth in paragraph 
1 of this Schedule.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account, in its 
National Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal 
on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
Page  12
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) the records 
and accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures 
with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Association 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, 
whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified 
by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement.
Page  13
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to $400,000 to be withdrawn 
from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $200,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, 
shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Page  14
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit 
into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the 
amount which the Association has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, 
that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management 
Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed equivalent of $800,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to facilitate community-based socio-economic 
development by leveraging the Borrower’s cultural assets to create culture based activities in 
areas adjacent to cultural heritage sites, while improving the management of cultural assets, 
specially at the local level.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
:  Integrated Site Development
1.
Development of cultural industries around the monastery of Berovo through the 
provision of Sub-grants to Beneficiaries for the carrying out of Sub-projects designed to promote 
handicraft production, community-based tourism and site improvements and conservation 
measures.
2.
Extension of the activities referred to in Part A.1 above to additional sites selected 
pursuant to agreed-upon criteria. 
3.
Strengthening the capacity of Beneficiaries and local authorities through the provision of 
Page  15
technical assistance and training to develop and carry out Sub-projects.
Part B
:  Institutional Development
Strengthening the institutional capacity of agencies at the national and local level 
involved in managing and developing cultural assets through the provision of technical 
assistance, goods, training, and studies.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
Page  16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:  General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Association in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the 
Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member countries” 
and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating 
Countries” and “Participating Country.”
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C
:  Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $80,000 equivalent,  shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
Page  17
2.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Part A of the Project shall be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures acceptable 
to the Association and specified in the Operational Manual.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement 
plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I, Part B of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts procured pursuant to Part C.1 above, the 
first two contracts procured pursuant to Part C.2 above and their first four Sub-grants, the 
following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any works contract procured under shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  18
Section II
.  Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part 
A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country.”
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-Cost Selection
Services for auditing, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract,  may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultant
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  19
Part D
: Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $40,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraphs 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference, and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have 
been given.  All terms of reference for the employment of firms and individual consultants shall 
be subject to the Association’s prior review.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  20
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part A:
Project Management
1.
The Borrower shall, until the completion of the Project, maintain the PCU and shall 
ensure that the PCU is staffed by personnel with qualifications and under terms of reference, and 
functions at all times in accordance with procedures necessary and appropriate for the carrying 
out of the Project, and satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Throughout the implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain, in a manner 
and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, the Steering Committee, which shall 
be responsible for overseeing the progress of Project implementation.
3.
The Borrower shall maintain the Operational Manual in form and content satisfactory to 
the Association and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Operational Manual without 
obtaining the prior approval of the Association.  The Operational Manual shall cover such 
matters as: (a) eligibility criteria for the Beneficiaries: (b) the principles and procedures to be 
followed for the approval of Sub-projects; (c) the terms and conditions to be included in the 
Grant Agreements; and (d) the indicators to be utilized by the PCU in monitoring the progress of 
the Project.
4.
The Borrower shall ensure the participation by Beneficiaries, in accordance with the 
principles set forth in the Operational Manual, in the preparation of Sub-projects.
Part B
: Financing of Sub-projects
1.
The Steering Committee shall select Sub-projects for financing from the proceeds of the 
Credit on the basis of an order of priority established in accordance with the criteria and 
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual.  The selection criteria shall include, inter alia, 
that the Sub-project:
(a)
is technically feasible and economically and financially viable, based on criteria set forth 
in the Operational Manual;
(b)
is designed to involve activities related to the cultural and/or natural assets in the 
vicinity;
(c)
is to contribute to poverty reduction;
(d)
is to mobilize local knowledge in support of implementation;
(e)
not cost more than $30,000; and
(f)
is in compliance with environmental standards satisfactory to the Association and in 
compliance with all applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower relating to health, safety and 
environmental protection.
Page  21
2.
Sub-grants shall be made on terms whereby the PCU shall obtain, through a standard 
Sub-grant Agreement, rights adequate to protect its interest and those of the Association, 
including the right to:
(a)
require the Beneficiary to carry out the Sub-project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, economic, financial and cultural 
practices, to maintain adequate records, and to provide, promptly as needed the funds, facilities 
and other resources required for the Project;
(b)
require that a portion of the cost of the Sub-project, in accordance with the 
principles set forth in the Operational Manual, be provided by the Beneficiary;
(c)
require that: (i) the works , goods and consultant’s services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in the 
Operational manual; and (ii) such works, goods and services be used exclusively in the carrying 
out of the Sub-projects;
(d)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association, if the 
Association shall so request, the goods and the sites, works, plans and construction included in 
the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(e)
require that the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain such insurance, against 
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice, including 
such insurance to cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the place of use or installation, any indemnity 
thererunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair 
such goods;
(f)
carry out and operate the Sub-project in accordance with appropriate health, 
safety and environmental standards, satisfactory to the Association;
(g)
obtain all such information as the Association shall reasonably request relating 
to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial condition of the Beneficiary 
and to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-project; and
(h)
suspend or terminate the right of the beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the 
Credit and require the refund of the disbursed amounts of the Sub-grant, upon failure by such 
Beneficiary to perform its obligations under the Grant Agreement.
3.
The Borrower shall: (a) not later than November 30 of each year, commencing from 
November 30, 2002, prepare and submit to the Association, for its review, an annual work 
program, including procurement, budget and financing plans for activities to be carried out 
during the following Fiscal Year; and (b) immediately thereafter, finalize and implement said 
work program taking into consideration the Association’s comments thereon.  
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Association, the carrying out 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
Page  22
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on or about February 29, 2004, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by March 31, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report and the Association’s views on the matter.
