                             Document of
                         The World Bank




                                               Report No: ICR000074




   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                     ( IDA-35300 NETH-52501 )




                              ON A

               LOAN / CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF
                         US$ MILLION 5.90

     (US$ 0.97 MILLION LOAN & SDR 3.75 MILLION CREDIT)

                              TO THE

        FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA

                              FOR A

   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT & CULTURE PROJECT (LIL)




                           June 12, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                          ( Exchange Rate Effective 09/30/2006 )
                               Currency Unit = MKD
                                  MKD 1.00 = US$ 48.0960
                                   US$ 1.00 = MKD 0.0208

                                      Fiscal Year
                                January 1 - December 31




                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AG    Association Grant
ATA   Aid to Artisans
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
CBO   Community Based Organization
CDCP Community Development and Culture Project
CDD   Community Driven Development
CG    Community Grants
DCA   Development Credit Agreement
DGF   Development Grant Facility
DO    Development Objective
ECA   Europe and Central Asia
ECSSD Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
IDA   International Development Association
IP   Implementation Progress
IRR   Internal Rate of Return
IT    Information Technology
KPI  Key Performance Indicators
LIL   Learning and Innovation Loan
LWG   Local Working Group
M&E   Monitoring and Evaluation
MOC   Ministry of Culture
MOCG Ministry of Culture Grants
MTR   Mid-Term Review
NCB  National Competitive Bidding
NGO  Non Governmental Organization
NSC  National Steering Committee
NTF  Norwegian Trust Fund
PAD   Project Appraisal Document
PCU   Project Coordination Unit
PDO   Project Development Objective
PIP  Project Implementation Plan
PPF  Project Preparation Facility
RWG   Regional Working Group

SNA  Social and Needs Assessment
SWOT Strength, Weaknesses, Opportunities, Threats
TOR  Terms of Reference
USAID United States Agency for International Development
VKS  Virtual Knowledge-Sharing Space
VPN  Virtual Private Network




          Vice President:                     Shigeo Katsu


          Country Director:                   Orsalia Kalantzopoulos


          Sector Manager:                     Maninder S. Gill


          Project Team Leader:                Mark C. Woodward


          ICR Team Leader:                    Mark C. Woodward

                       Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
                 Community Development & Culture Project (LIL)




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph
 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 12
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 25
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 31
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 32
 6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 35
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 38
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 40
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 41
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 45
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 48
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 51
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 52
 Annex 7. Borrower's ICR............................................................................................. 53
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 61
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 64
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Community
Country:                Macedonia             Project Name:         Development & Culture
                                                                    Project (LIL)
                                                                    IDA-35300,NETH-
Project ID:             P063577               L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                    52501
ICR Date:               06/26/2007            ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     LIL                   Borrower:             FYR MACEDONIA
Original Total
                        XDR 4.0M              Disbursed Amount:     XDR 3.8M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Culture
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Government of Netherlands


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        05/04/2000    Effectiveness:       03/11/2002         03/11/2002
Appraisal:             03/12/2001    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/21/2001    Mid-term Review:                        12/07/2004
                                     Closing:             06/30/2006         06/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)                  Rating

Potential Problem Project No                    Quality at Entry
                                                                      None
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                14                  14
Other social services                                            86                  86


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction            Primary           Primary
Participation and civic engagement                              Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                       Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:         Orsalia Kalantzopoulos             Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:           Maninder S. Gill                   Alexandre Marc
Project Team Leader:      Mark C. Woodward                   Mark C. Woodward
ICR Team Leader:          Mark C. Woodward
ICR Primary Author:       Marina Djabbarzade



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To establish conditions that facilitate community-based socioeconomic development by
leveraging one of the country's untapped resources, its cultural assets, to create culture-
based industries (notably handicrafts and community-based tourism) in areas adjacent to
cultural heritage sites, while improving the management of cultural assets, particularly at
the local level.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO and Key Indicators were not revised.



                                               ii

  N.B. The results framework did not exist at the time the project was appraised. What
follows is the key performance indicator matrix agreed upon during negotiations, which
has been "retrofitted" into the results framework format. An explanation is provided in
section 2.3 of the main text.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target     Formally          Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value         Values (from       Revised            Achieved at
                                             approval          Target          Completion or
                                            documents)         Values           Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Community associations created/supported at project sites remain viable.
                                                           HS - At least
                                                           60% of NGOs HS - Percentage of
                                                           having           NGOs that continue

Value                                                      implemented to support activities

quantitative or N/A                      HS                subprojects      related to sub-

Qualitative)                                               remain viable project:
                                                           at end of        -Pilot location 75%
                                                           project as       - New
                                                           measured by      Municipalities 82%
                                                           PCU surveys.
Date achieved 05/31/2001                 06/30/2006        06/30/2006       06/15/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Municipal governments work effectively with local communities
                                                                            HS ­ Effective
                                                                            cooperation in all
                                                           HS - At least but pilot
                                                           75% of           municipalities
                                                           participating    (82%).
Value                                                      municipalities Cooperation
quantitative or N/A                      HS                demonstrate      included: *
Qualitative)                                               effective        Defining strategies;
                                                           cooperation as *Assisting in
                                                           indicated by     filling out
                                                           PCU reports. application forms
                                                                            and advocacy;
                                                                            *Covering VAT.
Date achieved 05/31/2001                 06/30/2006        06/30/2006       06/15/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                             iii

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target     Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value         Values (from                       Achieved at
                                             approval          Revised      Completion or
                                            documents)     Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Site plans implemented and industries developed
                                                           HS - Social
                                                           Needs and
                                                           Cultural       HS ­ Social Needs

                                                           Heritage       Assessments &

                                                           Assessments    Identification of
                                                                          Local Cultural
Value                                                      carried out at Heritage & Action
(quantitative  N/A                       HS                all sites. At  Plans made and
or Qualitative)                                            least 70% of
                                                           financed       partly

                                                           industries     implemented. PCU

                                                           remain viable  indicates nearly all

                                                           as measured    financed activities

                                                           by PCU         remain viable.

                                                           surveys.
Date achieved 05/31/2001                 06/30/2006        06/30/2006     06/15/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  CBOs and NGOs receive technical assistance/training

                                                           HS - NGOs      HS ­ Trainings

                                                           involved in    conducted in all

                                                           project will   municipalities (e.
                                                                          g): *Project Cycle
Value                                                      have received  Management;
(quantitative  N/A                       HS                relevant       *Project aims &
or Qualitative)                                            training and
                                                           technical      objectives;

                                                           assistance as  *Strategic planning;

                                                           indicated by   *Filling application

                                                           PCU reports.   form for ideas and
                                                                          proposals.
Date achieved 05/31/2001                 06/30/2006        06/30/2006     06/15/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  National site inventory improved
                                                           HS - A         HS ­ Inventory of
                                                           National Site immoveable
Value                                                      inventory that heritage now fully
(quantitative  N/A                       HS                enables        operational.
or Qualitative)                                            digitalized    Expansion to
                                                           access to site include moveable
                                                           information    heritage (not



                                             iv

                                                      will be fully  originally
                                                      operational by envisaged) now
                                                      the end of the underway.
                                                      project.
Date achieved 05/31/2001                 06/30/2006   06/30/2006     06/15/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :  Policy studies carried out
                                                      HS - Policy
                                                      studies will
                                                      result in the  HS ­ Planned and

Value                                                 development completed

(quantitative  N/A                       HS           of new tourist activities: *Tourism

or Qualitative)                                       activities and assessment (2003)
                                                      markets for    and *Handicrafts
                                                      handicrafts as assessment (2004).
                                                      indicated by
                                                      PCU reports.
Date achieved 05/31/2001                 06/30/2006   06/30/2006     06/15/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  PCU receives training
                                                      HS - The PCU
                                                      team will have
                                                      gained
                                                      capacity to
                                                      manage
                                                      project        HS ­ Training in:
                                                                     *All 6 planned
Value                                                 activities and modules
(quantitative  N/A                       HS           be able to     implemented.
or Qualitative)                                       subsequently
                                                      employ this    *Additional 5

                                                      capacity in    modules also

                                                      the            implemented.

                                                      implementatio
                                                      n of other
                                                      government or
                                                      NGO projects.
Date achieved 05/31/2001                 06/30/2006   06/30/2006     06/15/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                             v

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                      Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                       IP             Disbursements
                                                                   (USD millions)
  1   06/29/2001        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.00
  2   12/14/2001        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.00
  3   03/14/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.00
  4   05/09/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.07
  5   12/24/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.26
  6   03/07/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.37
  7   05/20/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.37
  8   12/01/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.45
  9   05/20/2004        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.65
  10  07/28/2004        Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory                 0.76
  11  02/11/2005   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           1.49
  12  06/30/2005   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           2.17
  13  01/28/2006        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  3.62
  14  06/30/2006        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  5.48



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         vi

The Community Development and Culture Project (CDCP) was designed as an
innovative effort to implement the ECA Region's strategy for intervention in cultural
heritage.1 The basic thrust of this strategy is that while the World Bank is not interested
in cultural heritage for its own sake, when cultural heritage can be mobilized in support
of the Bank's objectives it is worth pursuing. Hence the project was designed as a
Learning and Innovation project (LIL) to try to turn the Borrower's cultural heritage into
assets in support of community development.

The project got off to a rocky start as conflict erupted in the country during the appraisal
mission. This, aggravated by the political turmoil that ensued during the change of
Government early on during implementation, meant that the project was initially slow to
disburse and spent the rest of its implementation period catching up. Fortunately the LIL
approach provided the necessary flexibility to successfully adapt to changing
circumstances and resolve difficulties. By the time the project closed there was abundant
qualitative evidence demonstrating, not only that the project's development objectives
had been achieved, but also that the project had had a significant impact in participating
communities. This Implementation Completion Report documents both the positive
results and the difficulties, drawing lessons along the way.

              1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN

(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal

(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Country Background (from PAD):
"Macedonia is situated at the geographic crossroads of the Balkans, Central Europe and
the Mediterranean. Emerging from the dissolution of the former Socialist Republic of
Yugoslavia and the impact of war in neighboring countries with high levels of poverty,
the country lags behind others in the region and suffers from uneven internal
development. Macedonia is short of obvious resources to support socioeconomic
development. However, its unique cultural heritage, the visible evidence of its
multicultural origins, is an asset which may be mobilized for socioeconomic regeneration
and development.

However, often these assets are deteriorating as a result of a serious lack of investment in
conservation and management, the contraction of the Macedonian economy due to
conflict in the Balkans, over reliance on the public sector, and lack of experience in
transforming these resources into marketable assets. This project intends to lay the
foundations for reversing this process and, in so doing, utilize them in support of
community-driven socioeconomic development.




1"Cultural Assets in Support of Transition in the Europe and Central Asia Region: An Operational
Perspective", prepared in 2000 and published as and ECSSD working paper (no. 29) in January 2001.


                                                     1

In this context, the project will help achieve the following CAS goals:

(i) Promote private sector growth and job creation by creating new poles of visitor and
investment attraction at pilot cultural sites in less advantaged areas. This will be done
primarily by supporting such cultural enterprises as handicrafts production and cultural
tourism based on (a) defining participatory local development strategies; (b) revitalizing
and diversifying culture-based products; (c) providing business advice and skill training
services; (d) facilitating access to capital for start up businesses through existing micro-
credit and other financing instruments; and (e) supporting marketing of local products.

(ii) Enhance the efficiency of the state, local government, and communities in managing
cultural assets through joint activities with local communities and associations and
public/private partnerships that (a) develop appropriate, participatory forms of
governance for the development of local development strategies and for participation in
the management of cultural assets; (b) build project management skills at local and
central level; (c) increase technical capacity; and (d) improve the condition and utilization
of cultural assets.

(iii) Alleviate poverty by giving preference to pilot sites in less advantaged areas of the
country and to project activities that create jobs and revenue streams for those living in
poverty regardless of ethnic origin.

The principle underlying these activities is to create synergies between site management
and culture-based activities at pilot sites, thereby developing new activities, including the
diversification of local cultural enterprises and tourism, that will result in employment
opportunities for local communities."

Sector Background (from PAD):
"Cultural Assets Conservation and Management: The Ministry of Culture and its six
Institutes for the Protection of Cultural Heritage are the institutions responsible for
protecting national cultural assets. The Government has recently redrafted heritage
legislation and is considering some form of institutional restructuring. In 1999 the
number of staff in the Ministry of Culture was reduced as part of the overall public sector
reform process. The Ministry has shown its willingness to work with the private and
voluntary sectors in its museum, publications, and other activities. The Government
places importance on its cultural assets and has asked the World Bank for assistance in
improving their management and conservation.

Among the chief sector issues are: determining priorities for Government spending;
developing policies and incentives that promote cultural assets conservation and
compatible adaptive use; integrating cultural heritage conservation into overall urban and
land use planning decisions; securing non-budget sources of financing for cultural asset
conservation; involving the voluntary and private sectors in the process; and developing
appropriate forms of governance for such collaboration.




                                                2

Tourism: The structure of the tourism industry has changed radically since independence
in 1990 when visitors' levels were high and tourism contributed a considerable amount of
foreign currency earnings. The Government is grappling with these new sets of
circumstances but has yet to formulate a coherent strategy. Conflict in neighboring
countries has led to drastic reductions in tourist visits. Today visitors are more likely to
travel individually (including members of humanitarian delegations or peace keeping
forces) than in large groups; the duration of stays had decreased from 7-14 days to 4-6
days. Information on the structure of the industry is lacking, as is a clear view of the
country's comparative advantages, regional position, and target market.

Major sector issues are: formulation of a realistic strategy for domestic and international
tourism development that would promote broad-based local development; definition of
the appropriate Government role in promoting tourism and creating an enabling
environment for private sector investment; determining and meeting infrastructure
requirements, including in-country transport, road access, water supply and sanitation in
tourist areas; raising standards of accommodations and services; identification of
potential markets, such as ecological, cultural, and adventure tourists, and marketing
strategies; and the role of community-based tourism.

Microenterprise Development. The Government is aware that promoting start up
businesses was essential to resuming growth and creating employment. The EU and the
UK Know How Fund are financing micro enterprise projects that provide advisory and
business training services through regional centers and new businesses are now coming
on stream. There are few micro credit facilities in the country, although USAID and
PHARE ran pilot micro credit schemes. These schemes are over subscribed and are
growing rapidly, but do seem to be able to keep pace with demand. The Central Bank
believes that existing commercial banks can provide a micro credit window, yet typically
commercial banks required more collateral than those who need access to microcredit can
provide. Access to capital for start up businesses remains a serious need.

The sector issues in this case are: increase access to and availability of micro credit
schemes/facilities as well as developing entrepreneurial and business management skills."

Rationale for Bank Assistance: The Community Development and Culture Project
(CDCP) was conceived as a Learning and Innovation Credit (LIL), and therefore (in line
with the procedures in force at that time) this section was not included in the PAD.
Nonetheless, the rationale is implicit in paragraph (B: 3) pertaining to "Learning and
Development issues to be addressed by the project".

The rationale was founded on the principle that cultural assets represented a potential
area for growth of small enterprises and employment subject to the improvement of their
management and conservation. By enhancing the contribution of cultural assets to the
economy and well-being of local communities; involving local communities in managing
their own socioeconomic development, particularly with respect to cultural protection
and promotion; diversifying and expanding the tourist offering of Macedonia; and
improving cultural conservation, the CDCP supported CAS priorities and provided a



                                              3

complement to other bank investments. Additionally it was considered a practical
instrument for fostering partnerships with other donors to leverage support for long-term
capacity building particularly in the context of private sector growth and decentralization
efforts.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)


PDO:
"To establish conditions that facilitate community-based socioeconomic development by
leveraging one of the country's untapped resources, its cultural assets, to create culture-
based industries (notably handicrafts and community-based tourism) in areas adjacent to
cultural heritage sites, while improving the management of cultural assets, particularly at
the local level."

PDO Indicators:
1. Community associations created/supported at project sites remain viable
2. Municipal governments work effectively with local communities

Output Indicators:
1. Site plans implemented and industries developed
2. CBOs and NGOs receive technical assistance training
3. National site inventory produced; policy studies carried out; PCU receives training


1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority),
and reasons/justification


The PDO and Key Indicators were not revised. Nonetheless it should be noted that the
CDCP was designed before the adoption of the results framework (RF) and the
subsequent migration from PSR (Project Supervision Report) to ISR (Implementation
Status Report) in 2004. Key performance indicators (KPIs) with qualitative target values
were established at negotiations based on the PAD logframe. When the ISR was
introduced, the KPIs were retrofitted into the results framework keeping the integrity of
the negotiated KPI table. This is further discussed in section 2.3 below.


1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

The PAD stated: "The primary beneficiaries will be those individuals who associate
together to produce sub-project ideas, benefit from technical assistance, and in many
cases receive grant funding to implement their ideas. Those not selected will still benefit
from technical assistance and will receive assistance in seek funding elsewhere. These


                                              4

beneficiaries are expected to be largely un- or underemployed people living near sites of
cultural significance and will include youths, the elderly, and women. Special efforts will
be made to include all ethnic groups."

Thus, by virtue of the participatory three tiered process of the Integrated Site
Development component, which links local populations to local government and
ultimately to line ministries with regards to strategic planning and decision making, the
population as a whole at project sites was expected to benefit from the project. This
includes local authorities, as the recipients of technical assistance and training to
develop and carry out sub-projects. Additionally, by virtue of the associative pre-
requisite that will motivate civil society's improved performance, NGOs were also to be
among the primary beneficiaries of the project.

Through the second component (Institutional Development at the National Level), which
called for the modernization of the national site inventory; a handicraft assessment and
action plan; and a tourism assessment and action plan; the institutional capacity of
agencies at the national level (Ministry of Culture, Institute for the Protection of
Cultural Monuments) and local level (Local Institutes for the Protection of Cultural
Monuments ) involved in managing and developing cultural assets were to be improved
through the provision of technical assistance, goods, training, and studies; thus making
these institutions a primary target group benefiting from the project.

Secondary beneficiaries were to include tourism industry services (operators, hospitality)
and goods (handicrafts) providers.

1.5 Original Components (as approved - from PAD):

"The primary activity to be funded under the project is the development of sets of
interrelated sub-projects clustered in and around a limited number of communities
possessing sites and other assets of cultural importance. These activities and sites will be
selected through a competitive, demand-driven process. Criteria for selection are
designed (and over the course of the project will be refined) to encourage synergies and
to promote community development and poverty reduction. These sub-projects will be
supported with capacity building measures to help develop community-based site and
business management skills.

Component 1: Integrated Site Development.
This component will seek to develop sets of cultural industries and actions in several pilot
sites through priority investments, conservation measures, and local level capacity
building. Sites will be selected by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) together with the
Steering Committee and in consultation with the World Bank, following a nation-wide
public outreach campaign to solicit sub-project ideas. A prequalification process will
then select possible candidates for assistance in developing proposals. Sub-projects will
be selected in accordance with criteria designed to maximize the impact in terms of
community development and poverty reduction and to produce groups of projects
clustered around appropriate communities. Final responsibility for sub-project selection
will reside with the Steering Committee, in consultation with the PCU and the World


                                              5

Bank. The selected communities will then receive assistance in the development of site
management plans and managerial skills. The process is designed to allow for learning
and correction over the course of project preparation and implementation. To this end, it
begins with an initial pilot site, the town of Berovo in Eastern Macedonia, selected during
project preparation to test the approach. Procedures and terms of reference will then be
revised to reflect the lessons of this first experience before being implemented more
broadly under the project. This process will result in clusters of sub-project activities of
three main types: handicrafts; community-based tourism, and site improvements and
conservation measures. Successful applicants will receive grant funding and technical
assistance to carry out their proposed activities. Other appropriate applicants will receive
assistance in gaining access to existing micro credit programs. At each site, successful
applicants will be expected to work together with each other and with other community
members.

In addition to financing successful proposals, the project will support the development
and implementation of community-based site management and community development
plans at each beneficiary site. These plans would define necessary improvements and
conservation measures, inter alia: improved site access and parking facilities, circulation
systems, presentation and interpretation, visitor facilities, conservation and protective
works, and training. They will be informed by social and economic assessment,
assessment of needs related to site management, and environmental screening (and
assessment where needed), which will be carried out at all project sites. These
communities will also receive assistance in marketing their cultural assets.

Pilot site development will be supported through a set of capacity building activities at
the local level. These will include: (i) promotion and support of new or existing
community-based organizations (CBOs) and local nongovernmental organizations
(NGOs) to carry out local management of culture related activities; (ii) training of local
governments for local planning and management of cultural sites; (iii) assistance in
promoting partnerships between local-level communities and among associations, the
private sector (notably enterprises and individuals with skills related to the preservation
of Macedonian cultural heritage) and NGOs; and (iv) the development of marketing
strategies. All these activities will be monitored and supervised by the PCU.

The activities foreseen in this component provide an integrated approach to capacity
building and accountability for improving cultural assets management at the local level.
Promoting community-based tourism and crafts industries organized around cultural
assets at pilot sites; and increasing local communities' capacity to manage cultural assets
and related activities by provision of technical assistance increase knowledge and
ownership thus creating a favorable environment for sustainable socioeconomic
development.

Component 2: Institutional Development at the National Level.
This component is limited to activities critical to the successful implementation of the
integrated site development component. To this end it will support the local level
activities by: providing needed information for the successful mobilization of cultural



                                                6

assets in support of community development; facilitating the marketing of cultural assets
at project sites; and coordinating project implementation.

In order to support the development of local level activities, three activities will be
carried out: (1) the existing national inventory of cultural sites will be further developed
as a multipurpose (national and regional) planning tool, by making it more accessible and
operationally useful and by integrating community participation approaches; (2) a
handicrafts assessment and action plan will determine the scope of existing handicrafts
and make recommendations for future product and business development (including
practical issues that may impede handicraft development, related to design, production,
financing, marketing, and delivery); and (3) a tourism assessment and action plan will
examine the current organization, performance, needs, and opportunities for the sector
with regard to cultural and eco-tourism potential. These three activities will inform the
work of the project's Steering Committee as well as the local Working Groups to be set
up at project sites. They will also contribute to on-going work at the national policy level
sponsored by the Council of Europe.

To facilitate the marketing of Macedonia's cultural assets, after site development
activities are well under way, a marketing strategy will be designed (under the auspices
of the Ministries of Culture and Economy) and implemented to target both domestic and
international markets (and linked to the local level strategies under the first component).
As part of this process, professionals from the eco-cultural tourism industry will be
invited to visit project sites with a view to brokering arrangements for tours to
subsequently include these sites on their itineraries.

To coordinate project implementation, a project coordination mechanism will be
established in the Ministry of Culture. Among the tasks of this mechanism will be
monitoring and evaluation. The project will provide training for the project team."


Collecting, updating and analyzing data about cultural assets is crucial for formulating a
strategy to improve their management and utilization in a market economy context to
foster sustainable socioeconomic development. The output of this component, which
consists of enhancing national level capacity to support the mobilization of cultural assets
in support of community development through technical assistance/training, is therefore
appropriate for achieving the PDO.




                                               7

1.6 Revised Components


The components were not revised.


1.7 Other significant changes

(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

Design:
As noted on the OPCS website, LILs are designed to be flexible instruments for
innovative activities that allow for adjustments during the course of implementation
pursuant to the lessons learned during such time. Compared to other lending
operations, the requirements of a LIL PAD are less stringent. In effect component and
implementation mechanism descriptions are less rigid. Making extensive use of this
possibility, the CDCP PAD provided a menu of options with regards to the selection of
additional sites following the pilot experience. Having thus anticipated various scenarios
and in light of the experience gained at the pilot site, the Project Coordination Unit
proceeded to opt for the most appropriate site selection option from the proposed menu.
As such, the design of the CDCP already incorporated alternatives and therefore there
were no significant changes in the design of the project as appraised, with the exception
of the introduction, at negotiations, of the Ministry of Culture Grants (MOCGs) activity
in component 1.

In order to complement the integrated site development component's intention to
undertake "conservation measures", MOCGs were introduced to rehabilitate/conserve
listed monuments in selected sites upon the request of the Ministry of Culture (MOC). In
the wake of the Azerbaijan Cultural Heritage Project's design that focused on restoration
with inadequate attention to sustainability, the attention to monument restoration was
minimized in the project design, but the borrower's emphasis on the importance of this
activity during negotiations led to its inclusion as part of the grants to be given out in
component 1. Unlike the "competition"-based subprojects, MOCGs were selected by the
MOC and were funded in an amount of 20% by the latter following the Bank's No-
Objection.

Scale:
While no significant changes took place with regards to the design of the project, it is
notable that the scale, in terms of areas covered, expanded considerably. To create a
critical mass of new socioeconomic activities around sites with cultural assets so as to
have a significant impact on the livelihoods in surrounding communities, the task team
expected the integrated site development component to cover approximately five sites at
the time of preparation. Following pilot completion, shortly before mid-term, an
advertisement was published for expressions of interest for new municipalities where
special criteria were set and publicly published. It resulted in 52 applications. Based on
these published criteria the National Steering Committee selected 15 new municipalities



                                               8

grouped in 6 regions, which thus proceeded to benefit from component 1. The large
volume of applications received demonstrates the appropriateness the demand driven
approach in the post conflict context.

Implementation arrangements and schedule:
There was no significant change in implementation arrangements. Nonetheless, there
was some fluctuation in project selection mechanisms at the local level. Initially the plan
was to create Local Working Groups (LWGs) in each participating municipality.
However, when the decision was made (at the suggestion of the Country Manager) to add
the neighboring municipalities of Delcevo and Pehchevo to the original pilot site of
Berovo in the eastern part of the country, a Regional Working Group (RWG) was added.
With a view to creating better regional coherence, this additional body, composed of the
Mayors of the three municipalities and two members from each Local Working Group
(LWG), was in charge of providing recommendations towards a regional strategy as well
as evaluating subprojects submitted by the LWGs. However, fierce competition often
kept individual municipalities' visions restricted to their own constituencies and this
biased the decision making process. Attributing this turn of events to the political
peculiarities of the pilot sites the project initially kept the same framework, and although
RWGs did function more coherently in the additional municipalities, they also
considerably slowed down the implementation process. As a result RWGs were
subsequently eliminated and the respective mayors joined their LWGs. Whereas the
three stage process of grant selection and approval was kept in order to effectively apply
the principle of local empowerment coupled with national level oversight, the
responsibility of RWGs was delegated back to the LWGs, which also received support
from the PCU at the pre-selection stage.

The increase in the PCU workload caused by scaling up from one to seven regions led to
hiring additional staff to increase effectiveness. In an effort to speed up subproject
implementation and increase quality, it became clear that additional assistance in the
application process and the various stages of implementation was needed. As a result,
Regional Coordinators were hired to provide technical assistance to communities at the
early stages of the subproject process. Consequently, the pace of subproject approval and
implementation rapidly intensified leading to visible results. Once again, this increased
efficiency is in no small part due to the nature of the lending instrument that allows for
lessons learned to be incorporated during implementation.

Similarly, during implementation, monitoring and evaluation processes were adjusted to
correspond to the needs and capacity of the recipient. This is discussed in Section 2.3
below.

The project suffered several setbacks, partially caused by external problems, which led to
some delays in implementation and disbursement schedules:

    · In the spring of 2001 unrest in the Northern part of the country (Tetovo region)
        led to instances of armed conflict and put the country in a security crisis. As a
        direct consequence of these events, the Borrower's efforts were concentrated on



                                                 9

       resolving the political issues and thus the Parliament's priorities and agenda were
       modified.
    · Although the Board approved the project in June 2001, it only became effective in
       March 2002. The reason for this was that the Borrower could not sign the
       Development Credit Agreement (DCA) prior to Parliament's ratification of the
       "Law on Indebtedness", which was not approved until January 16, 2002 due to
       Parliament's preoccupation with the security crisis.
    · Consequently, the project's Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance that was
       set to close in December 2001 had to be extended by 3 months.
    · The project witnessed three different administrations during its lifetime.
       Inevitably election seasons have repercussions of various intensities in the areas
       of: availability of stakeholders at the national level, exploitation of the project for
       electoral campaigns, and debriefing of the new administration which often leads
       to questioning certain aspects of the project and thus slows implementation.

Nearly two and a half years after the effectiveness of the credit the disbursement lag was
in excess of 80%. However this was rapidly reduced by 27% in the first quarter of 2005
and a similar amount by the end of the second quarter; by the last quarter of that same
year the lag was nil. The probability that this was in part caused by the external factors
cannot be dismissed. However, it also shows weak institutional capacity as the first two
years were spent in setting up the administrative, institutional and technical basis for
successful implementation. The increase in the disbursement rate also coincides with
scaling-up from the pilot site, where most of the arduous learning took place, to 15
additional municipalities.

Funding allocations:
Three amendments were made to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA). The first
one was caused by an error in the text of the DCA that had not been corrected to cover
the MOCG when this type of grant was introduced at negotiations. Correcting this
omission implied correcting the ceiling for grants as well as introducing National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) as a procurement method.

The appreciation of the SDR in 2004/5, combined with the additional funds granted by
the Government of the Netherlands, increased the US dollar amount of the funds to be
disbursed from $5 to $6.88 million (see table below).

            Conversion rates
          Financing plan      Equivalent in       Equivalent in       Equivalent in
                                   US$                US$                  US$
                              (03/11/2002)        (06/30/2005)        (06/30/2006)
         Borrower            US$ .660           US$ 1 million       US$ 1 million
                             million
         IDA                 US$ 5 million      US$ 5.85            US$ 5.889
                                                million             million
         NTH ­52501          US$ .740           US$ .995            US$ .995 million
                             million            million



                                             10

The object of the subsequent two amendments pertained, in general, to re-allocations.
The increase in funds available as shown in the table above, allowed increasing the goods
allocation without causing any detriment to the outcome of sub-grants. Increasing the
funds for the purchase of goods had an impact on both components. It enlarged the scope
of the MOCGs, as requested by the MOC and at the urging of the Country Department,
and it improved the sustainability of the Institutional Development component as funds
were used to purchase additional goods, such as a 3-D scanner used to replicate small
museum objects to be sold to generate income for museums.

Reallocation Details
Amendment Amount               Amount             Amount        Amount         Amount
Date          allocated to     allocated to       allocated to  allocated to allocated to
              cat. (1) sub-    cat.               cat. (4) in-  cat. (6)       cat. (7)
              grants           (2) Goods          country       Incremental Refunding
                                                  training      operating      of
                                                                costs          preparation
                                                                               Advance
December
14, 2004
August 17,    - SDR            + SDR                                           -154,996.43
2005          110,000          264,996.43
April 6,      - SDR            + SDR              + SDR         + SDR
2006          138,796          126,998            8,328         3,470

Spurred by the accelerated disbursement pace in the last year of the project, the 3rd
amendment to the DCA, in addition to making reallocations, also raised the ceiling on the
Special Account from SDR 1 million to SDR 1.6 million to avoid cash flow problems.

It must be noted that reallocations do not normally require amendments to be made to the
DCA. However, in this case (as is the Borrower's common practice), the Ministry of
Finance asked that they be done by amendment. All amendments were approved by the
Country Director following the usual clearance process.




                                             11

             2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The identification of this project took place shortly before the end of FY 2000 and, since
the Borrower was due to graduate from IDA in FY 2001, management requested the Task
Team to process preparation before June 2001 so that the project could benefit from IDA
financing. In light of the nature of the project and the sector concerned ­ a relative
newcomer in Bank operations ­a LIL was deemed the most appropriate lending
instrument. With the exception of the 1979 Luxor Tourism Project in Egypt where 15%
of the loan was used towards the cultural component, between 1973 and 1989 the portion
of funds allotted to cultural property in all other Bank-financed investments physically
affecting cultural heritage only allotted 3% of the total amount of the loans on average
towards addressing that issue. Lending for Cultural Heritage only began in earnest in
1999. Thus operations in the sector of Cultural Heritage were still "exploratory" and the
possibility of learning from previous operations, including the Azerbaijan Cultural
Heritage Support Project and the Georgia Cultural Heritage Projects that were in early
phases of implementation, limited. As mentioned previously, the former failed to
substantially link conservation to economic development. This led the region to re-
examine its activities in the heritage sector and to develop a policy document for
integrating culture in socioeconomic development as well as defining sustainable
approaches to the utilization of cultural assets for poverty reduction in the ECA region.

The guidance provided in this policy document was duly taken into account at the time of
the CDCP preparation. Consequently, the original concept, which was strictly focused on
the Borrower's regional development through cultural heritage conservation, was revised
at the Project Concept Document (PCD) review meeting to better correspond to the
Bank's Regional objectives. Thus it introduced a community development dimension to
enhance the creation of synergies for socioeconomic development and cultural assets; and
introduced the competitive grants mechanism as a means of developing the handicrafts
and tourism industries.

An economic analysis of the Berovo pilot site was carried out during project preparation
to estimate the economic rate of return yield. The analysis excluded multiplier effects
and benefits difficult to quantify such as the non-use values associated with the
conservation of nature and culture, nonetheless it estimated that the economic rate of
return would be the equivalent of 18%.

In this context, project preparation and design were more than adequate. In less than a
year the task team conducted the appraisal of the project. This was made possible, in
part, by the commitment of the Government and civil society organizations, which
assigned qualified individuals to support preparation by assessing available resources and
developing the project design accordingly. However, by the same token, it



                                                12

unintentionally led the task team to misjudge the overall capacity of the Ministry of
Culture, particularly with regards to weak management capacity at both the local and the
national levels that had some bearing on implementation.

Risks and their mitigation.
While external risks were accurately identified, certain aspects of the mitigation measures
pertaining to marketing and external markets were not fully applied.

   · Marketing. The project recognized that marketing crafts and tourist destinations
       would be difficult and could put the PDO at risk. As a countermeasure it
       proposed to include an assessment of crafts potential and technical assistance for
       crafts development and marketing. This measure was fully and successfully
       applied through close collaboration with the local chapter of an international
       NGO (Aid to Artisans), a local NGO (Macedonian Artisan Trade Association),
       the recruiting of experts to carry out the assessment, and continuous technical
       assistance in product design and development, marketing and training overseen by
       a crafts dedicated staff member at the PCU.

       With regards to marketing tourist destinations, the mitigating measure envisaged
       included: (i) establishing links with eco-cultural tourism operators, and (ii)
       technical assistance for marketing. The undeveloped nature of the tourism sector
       in the country and the lack of institutional capacity initially impeded the
       establishment of links with national eco-cultural tourism operators. The project
       could have however invested more efforts in linking subproject beneficiaries to
       the international market. The fact that operators demonstrated a thorough
       understanding of linking their activities with one another, and did create synergies
       for marketing their services at the regional level indicates that they had sufficient
       capacity to scale these same activities up to the international context. While
       technical assistance for marketing tourist destinations locally was provided to
       some extent, it remained relatively weak on the international plane. It must be
       noted that the Bank team had arranged for technical assistance in this area under
       the Development Grant Facility (DGF), but due to delays in project
       implementation this opportunity was lost.

   · "Political conflict in Macedonia impedes implementation". As a mitigating
       measure, the project relied on its ability to create an environment where "it would
       enjoy widespread support bolstered through community involvement at the local
       level and scrupulous attention to transparency". In fact, thanks to a well thought
       out participation mechanism, the project successfully realized community
       engagement and accountability. The scrupulous attention to transparency was
       indeed concretely put into effect at the pilot site where allegations of "rigged"
       selection of subprojects for politically motivated reasons were made by three
       NGOs whose projects had been rejected. In investigating the veracity of this
       claim, the project reviewed the screening and evaluation criteria of the selection
       process. In so doing it identified three issues: 1) decisions of the RWG were
       taken on non-technical grounds; 2) critical selection criteria were ignored; and 3)



                                             13

       the National Steering Committee (NSC) overstepped its authority, substituting for
       the regional level, in deciding the allocation of grants. Subsequently, several
       changes where introduced including: 1) screening of all projects against the
       agreed criteria by the PCU; 2) inclusion of a limited number of LWG members in
       the RWG; and 3) reconstitution of the NSC. This approach proved successful and
       the complaint was retracted.

    · "Political environment does not allow appropriate responsibility to be devolved
       to the local level." The mitigating measure for this risk relied on the project's
       participatory approach to institutional learning embodied in the project to create a
       demand for better policies and transparency as a means to mitigate the risks of
       politicization. The fear that central authorities would be reluctant to delegate
       responsibilities and prevent empowerment, as the incident described above
       reveals, points to the accuracy in anticipating the risk and the measures taken to
       mitigate it.

    · "Unrest and political instability will reduce Macedonia's attractiveness as a
       tourist destination". This risk was rated as substantial and the project's stated
       mitigating measure was: "to focus on internal as well as external markets". While
       the decision to focus on internal markets was wise, as it reduces the risks of
       volatility and dependence on external consumers' preferences, and was indeed
       executed; it would not have been possible to "focus" on external markets in a
       context of unrest. Furthermore, as mentioned above, the project did not mobilize
       sufficient expertise to market the country as a tourism destination in external
       markets.

Adequacy of participatory processes.
In general terms, participation, as a process through which stakeholders influence and
share control over development objectives and the resources and decisions that affect
them, may be divided into four distinct intensities: information (one-way flow of
information), consultation (two-way flow of information), collaboration (shared control
over decision making) and finally empowerment (transfer of control over decisions and
resources).

Information:
During identification the task team focused its efforts on obtaining information on the
different thematic areas to ensure that project design and activities would adequately
address needs, not replicate ongoing activities and create synergies with existing
programs in a complementary fashion. Thus it investigated the status of handicrafts and
tourism, as well cultural institutions. This was done through observation, field visits and
interviews with stakeholders at all levels (community, institutional, governmental, private
sector and donor community).

An initial social assessment at the onset of the project for the pilot site of Berovo
provided poor results due to: (i) the late start of the assessment, which failed to inform
the project in a timely fashion, (ii) the weak analytical competence of the firm recruited,



                                              14

and (iii) the guidance provided by the Terms of Reference. This experience provided a
useful lesson for the project and the PCU subsequently modified, refined and tailored the
TORs so as to obtain effective information. Thus the following social assessments,
systematically carried out for all the additional municipalities that qualified for grants,
proved very useful as demonstrated by the performance of the additional sites.

To complement these activities, information dissemination was undertaken by means of
an effective outreach campaign via the media including television, radio, newspapers and
leaflets, as well especially designed packages for subproject applications.

Consultation:
For the first component, other instruments such as focus groups and meetings with the
mayors and municipal councils of relevant sites to provide support in defining local and
regional strategies, as well as discussions with LWGs and RWGs took place on a regular
basis. This opportunity was also used to build local capacity through the provision of a
dedicated Community Development agent in the Pilot region for bi-lateral consultation
on the subproject process and to provide support for the grant application process. When
the project was scaled up, the project provided each region with a Regional Coordinator
who fulfilled the original community development agent's role. Consultation with
regards to the second component involved discussions with the private, the public, and
the non-governmental sectors at first, and with institutional stakeholders embodied by the
NSC during implementation.

Collaboration:
The design of the project to address participation was well thought out as it called for
linkages at three levels: local, regional and national. The feedback and participation in
decision-making processes were interconnected and interdependent, thus integrating
activities and particularly their outcome into a coherent whole. Stakeholders were asked
to develop strategies, be they at the regional or national levels, and have them validated
through discussions. Some participatory monitoring elements were also built into the
Institutional Learning aspect of the project.

Empowerment:
The technical assistance provided to beneficiaries of the first component, coupled with
the strategy requirement, set the stage for decentralization and corresponded to the
government's policy as embodied in the Law on Local Self Government that was adopted
on July 1, 2005 during the implementation of the CDCP. Furthermore the handicrafts
and tourism assessments undertaken under the second component provided information
and recommendations by external experts in these areas aimed to strengthen the
performance of these economic activities. Likewise the standardization of the inventory
enabled Macedonian experts to expand their communication capacity with the regions
and beyond national borders to international institutions. The inventory activity improves
the management of resources, both intellectual and physical, through informed decision-
making.




                                              15

2.2 Implementation

(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

The project was not restructured and there were no major changes made to the design.
The only noteworthy change consists in the fact that, while respecting components and
overall design, a greater range of activities (i.e., a larger number of participating
municipalities and more MOCGs) was undertaken than initially anticipated thus
enlarging the scope of the project
Among the additional activities the most notable was the decision to undertake some
rehabilitation works in the area of Old Town Skopje known as the Old Bazaar. Two
main motives led to this decision: (i) providing a visibility window for the project in the
most densely populated city and most important administrative center of the Borrower, so
as to promote heritage with a wide range of stakeholders (local citizens, NGOs,
institutions and donors) in an effort to increase post-project sustainability; and
(ii) improve security perceptions, in a neighborhood traditionally populated with a
majority of ethnic Albanians and Turks, revive the city center suffering from noticeable
emigration as a repercussion of the 2001 conflict, and maintain the multicultural quality
of Skopje to enhance peace building efforts. These activities, in full compliance with the
PDO, provided a remarkable demonstration of the manifold utilization and potential
impact of cultural assets and their causal effect.

At the request of the Ministry of Culture, and in order to recognize and safeguard cultural
property, a signage activity was proposed to be funded through the MOCGs to
manufacture and place the Hague Convention's distinctive emblem at selected sites. This
element was introduced as an afterthought nearly a year before project completion and
several samples were submitted to both the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of
Transportation and Communication for approval. The latter was given only a month
prior to project closing date, thus limiting the scope of the activity; nonetheless a
substantial number of panels were installed at selected sites by the end of the project.

The implementation of the project suffered notable delays due to a number of events and
factors, all of which were remedied successfully. These are as follows:

Civil unrest
The project witnessed initial delays due to factors external to Government's control
caused by the civil unrest of 2001. As a consequence of the time lapse between Board
approval and effectiveness, project implementation was delayed. This initial set back in
turn influenced the disbursement rate and subsequently contributed to an unsatisfactory
project performance rating in one instance, regardless of the attenuating circumstances.
The unexpected unrest made the optimistic disbursement schedule, a function of the
generous estimation of overall capacity, less realistic.

Political exploitation
The project was also the victim of attempted political exploitation for a time during a
change of Government. As the ruling party increasingly lost footing in the 2002


                                              16

elections, the RWGs and the NSC approved US$ 500,000 worth of sub-project grants ­
twice the agreed spending envelope - at the pilot site apparently in an attempt to gain
votes. It was discovered (before the funds were disbursed) that the selection criteria and
the decision-making mechanism had been disregarded and, in its wake, that the
community development process had been subverted. The possibility of such "capture"
had been somewhat foreseen in the risk evaluation and, in addition to applying the
intended mitigation measures, additional discussions with the newly elected government
to remedy the situation were undertaken. Subsequently the Government appropriately
addressed the problem by reconstituting the NSC and reevaluating the proposals. The
entire process however was time consuming and caused more than half a year's delay in
implementation.

Competitive versus Non-Competitive Selection and Issues of Governance
Due to its small size and historical/national identity, the Borrower's environment is
highly politicized and, nepotism and the attempt to divert programs for personal and/or
political benefits are not absent. While some moderate instances relative to this behavior
occurred intermittently, they were adroitly managed by the PCU director and the task
team who successfully kept the delicate balance between adhering to the project and
avoiding alienation of beneficiaries. In some cases this was realized post-factum as in the
case of the pilot site. As part of project preparation two sites, Kriva Palanka and Berovo,
were short listed for piloting. Both were in the underdeveloped eastern part of the
country, and both possessed monasteries. Berovo was selected by the NSC because it
appeared to have more opportunities for tourism development. The initial aim of the
Borrower was solely the promotion of monastery tourism, but since this would not have
satisfied the community-development aspect of the project an intermediate and
reasonable solution to avoid a deadlock was to consider the monastery as an interesting
catalyst for tourism development in the region adjacent to it. However, although Berovo
had good cultural, religious and ecological tourism potential as well as motivated
community leaders, unbeknownst to the task team, it was later discovered that this region
was also the birthplace of the then prime minister and that his family was from the
neighboring municipality of Delcevo, which was subsequently incorporated into the pilot
area (along with the municipality of Pehchevo) on the urging of the Country Manager.
This fact could be insignificant as criteria were duly fulfilled, however as further
problems occurred during the selection of subprojects (see section 2.1) that coincided
with national elections, one could conclude that decision making at the local level
disregarded procedures and transparency. Furthermore, comparison of results between
the Berovo-Pehchevo-Delcevo triumvirate that was non-competitively selected with the
other municipalities that were competitively selected shows that the former consistently
underperformed. This appears to confirm that, notwithstanding the successful resolution
of the allegations by three NGOs mentioned earlier (section 2.1), it is difficult for
stakeholders to behave in good faith once trust, the pivot of social capital, has been
harmed. And this experience provided important lessons (notably with respect to the
importance of competitive processes) that helped the PCU prevent similar problems in
subsequent sites.




                                              17

Information Communication Technology
Certain aspects of implementation were not carried out in their entirety, such as the
overly ambitious plans for Institutional Learning (see Section 2.3 below). Furthermore
about a year into project implementation, the task team considered obtaining funds from
the Norwegian Trust Fund (NTF) to pilot an Information Technology (IT) component and
create a Virtual Knowledge-Sharing Space (VKS) comprising the PCU website and
community websites. The VKS's purpose would have been to reinforce empowerment
through communications and access to various databases. Although, in principle, this
added activity would have enriched the project and supported the attainment of the PDOs,
in practice however, although the website was indeed created (funded from another trust
fund), the VKS portion was not undertaken because the proposal was never submitted.

Human Resources and PCU Staff
While the core PCU demonstrated excellent capacity and was praised throughout the
project especially for its financial administration (see mid-term review below), the
performance of consultants was uneven particularly with regards to the Social
Assessments. The PCU judiciously increased its staff as the need arose; however a lot of
turnover took place, for a variety of reasons, causing some setbacks.

Mid-term Review
A very thorough and high quality independent evaluation was undertaken for the mid-
term review (MTR), which led to considerable improvements. To conduct a SWOT2
analysis, the evaluation surveyed 15 Association Grants (AGs) and 5 MOCGs and
conducted several interviews. To its credit, the recommendations for strengthening
project performance were found to be so apposite that the PCU adopted them prior to the
official hand-over of the report. While the report praised the "excellent financial
management" and the credibility of both project and PCU as well the commitment of
stakeholders, it also identified weaknesses with respect to the impact of the project on
tourism and handicrafts development and CBO sustainability. To address these concerns
it proposed an increase in PCU staff combined with targeted training, as well as improved
sub-project cycle management for both the AGs and the MOCGs. To the detailed
analysis produced, an equally detailed set of recommendations covering all aspects of
sub-project cycle management was proposed. The review found that the project was in
compliance with procedural provisions made in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
and the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).

A few months after the mid-term review, concerns about the disbursement lag led to an
Unsatisfactory IP (Implementation Progress) rating. This rating my have been given
hastily, as it was at a time when the project was in the process of scaling up to 15
additional municipalities and thus, by the following supervision mission, disbursements
increased significantly and the rating was upgraded.




2Analysis of strength, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats.


                                                18

Other measures taken to upgrade the project status after mid term review include:

    · The PCU was asked to prepare a credible program for carrying out the project
        within the allotted time frame;
    · in order to contribute to project objectives while disbursing more quickly than
        could be done through small grants, more rehabilitation of cultural property was
        envisaged; and
    · it was agreed that more equipment could be purchased in the context of the
        National Inventory activity, if necessary.

It should be noted that the Bank standards for rating changed over the course of project
implementation. Initially the IP indicator was used to rate the performance of the
implementation agency. Subsequently, the Country Department asked the Task Team to
use this indicator to rate implementation progress relative to what had been planned.
Under the former standard the unsatisfactory IP rating was not justified (because the PCU
was taking appropriate measures to address problems), while under the latter it should
have been rated unsatisfactory much earlier.




2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization


Institutional Learning
The CDCP capitalized on the opportunities offered by a LIL to explore innovative
methods and devised an elaborate Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system that catered
to Institutional Learning by emphasizing the participatory process. Thus, stakeholders at
all three tiers of the Integrated Site Development component (national policy level, local
strategy level and community operational level) were all given the dual role of evaluator
and evaluated. In practice this meant replacing predetermined frameworks for M&E with
an on-going process that would gradually, through self-assessment, communication,
feedback and correction build the knowledge gained into the monitoring and evaluation
process.

The M&E system was too ambitious and not suited to the Borrower's context where
central authorities had been responsible for decision-making for several decades. By
virtue of its abstract quality, which did not provide a sufficiently concrete and detailed
up-front framework for M&E, the complex feedback system failed to give the expected
results. Consequently, at the mid-term review it was agreed to establish a simplified
M&E system that was subsequently implemented throughout the remainder of the
project. The simplification allowed the PCU to accurately monitor sub-project
performance and contributed to the overall assessment of the project at its closing.

Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and Results Framework
It should be noted that the results framework did not exist at the time this project was
appraised. Instead a matrix of key performance indicators, based on the logframe in the
PAD, was agreed upon at negotiations. In line with the participatory approach to M&E


                                              19

outlined above, the KPI matrix was designed as a system of qualitative ratings (highly
unsatisfactory, unsatisfactory, satisfactory, and highly satisfactory) to be regularly
reported by the PCU accompanied by a justification for the ratings. While this approach
is not consistent with today's standards of impact assessment and M&E, it was
considered innovative at that time. Over the course of the project two things caused this
approach to be partly modified. First, when the Implementation Status Report with its
results framework replaced the Project Supervision Report, the Task Team "retrofitted"
the matrix into the results framework. This was done respecting the integrity of the
negotiated framework, which means that it is rather weak as a results framework. And
second, recognizing this weakness and as part of the efforts to strengthen M&E described
above, the Team agreed with the PCU on quantitative measures to justify the KPI ratings
(the target ratings already in the matrix were not changed). Therefore, over the course of
implementation the reporting mechanism was strengthened but in a manner that
continued to respect the negotiated agreement.

Association Grants Monitoring
The PCU created a very thorough database that included basic data on the sub-project,
financial information, schedule, classification of the type (5) of activities undertaken with
the grant, several indicators, and a rating system to evaluate the outcomes. Data was
entered based on application forms, field visits, data collection, and reporting from the
Regional Coordinators and the Community Development specialists. The indicators were
mostly quantitative and there were very limited qualitative indicators.

Ministry of Culture Grants Monitoring
The implementation of the MOCGs was fraught with difficulties at their onset. This was
caused by a scarcity of human resources both at the PCU level and at the level of the
Institutes for the Protection of Monuments that was identified fairly rapidly. Whereas the
PCU did not have an assigned architect to verify the technical documentation submitted
by the Institutes; the Institutes in turn did not respect the responsibilities that were
assigned to them, namely to submit complete technical project documentation in a timely
manner and supervise the quality of the works adequately. While the PCU could have
addressed its staffing issue fairly rapidly, it was nonetheless bound by the agreed MOCG
implementation framework that, upon the MOC's insistence, devolved most operational
aspects to the Institutes and apportioned solely an administrative role to the PCU. By
2005, faced with a situation where only 5 out of 15 selected rehabilitations had been
implemented, and following the MTR's recommendations and the creation of the Head
Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage, the entire monitoring system of the
MOCGs was revised.

The PCU recruited two qualified staff members and external expertise was hired to verify
the thoroughness and adequacy of the technical documentation submitted by the relevant
Institutes. Since there was only one civil engineer at the Institutes and no expertise
available for aspects such as heating and plumbing; the external experts often completed
the documentation. Furthermore, the PCU staff now had the human resources to
supervise the quality and timely delivery of works. Indeed, the modification of the




                                                20

framework and the new monitoring arrangements proved entirely adequate as by the end
of the CDCP the rehabilitation of 29 buildings had been completed.

Handicrafts Monitoring
Quarterly reports made by the PCU handicraft specialist based on field visits summarized
all activities linked to handicrafts be they association grants' outputs or activities
generated by the PCU such as qualitative assessments of NGOs, trainings, participation in
local trade shows, product design and marketing facilitation. Each report, in addition to
providing a qualitative review and responding to the needs identified, also itemized the
sales for individual beneficiaries thus keeping track of the progress in terms of income
generation and trends in the economic outputs. Whereas the handicrafts monitoring was
well designed and implemented, the unfortunate lack of baseline data limited the impact
evaluation of such activities.




2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Safeguard compliance
The project triggered two safeguard policies: Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP
4.01, GP 4.01) and Cultural Property (OPN 11.03). Whereas the project category was F
(Financial Intermediary Assessment), no major environmental or cultural issues were
associated with the activities proposed under project. Indeed, it was deemed that the
project would have a positive impact on the natural and cultural environment by giving
communities a stake in their preservation. Furthermore, since these impacts could only
be identified during the course of implementation of the specific sub-projects funded
through the small grant program, no environmental assessment was carried out at the
onset of the project; instead the following provisions were made to ensure compliance
with the safeguards.
        a) A mechanism was designed including the screening of sub-project proposals,
        based on a checklist, to assess the environmental impact and the potential need for
        an environmental assessment, or simple review, based on the sub-project's
        typology. This mechanism was built into the operational manual for the small
        grant program.
        b) During preparation, an assessment of local regulations on the protection of
        cultural property at the national and local levels was carried out and confirmed
        that the project would safeguard rather than harm cultural property.
Shortly after the beginning of the implementation of the MOCGs, which were introduced
during negotiations, notice was taken of inappropriate restoration and shoddy
workmanship. Initially and upon the Ministry's insistence, it had been agreed that the
responsibility for the design and the supervision of quality control would lie with the
Institute for the Protection of Monuments. The results however showed that the Institute
neither had the impetus nor the capacity to be endowed with such a responsibility and,




                                                21

subsequent to discussions with the PCU and the Ministry, it was agreed to verify both by
independent experts. This substantially improved the quality of subsequent works.

Fiduciary compliance

The financial management function of the project was outsourced to a local company
with demonstrated knowledge of Bank procedures. Internal controls and yearly audits
carried out by international auditing firms issued satisfactory opinions. With the
exception of transfer delays in counterpart funding in the last year of the project, which
caused a Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU) rating at the last ISR, the project did not have
significant fiduciary issues during implementation. The counterpart funds were
subsequently made available in time to allow for all disbursements to take place in due
time.



2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

The measures taken by CDCP to ensure operations and maintenance are fairly adequate
and it is likely that the project's operations and institutional capacity will be sustained.

Operation and Maintenance
The operation and maintenance of activities funded by the AGs was built into the
application process. Subject to the nature of the sub-project, budgets submitted with the
application form included the financing of operation and maintenance. Furthermore the
sustainability of sub-projects was one of the criteria against which the applications were
assessed.

The majority of the restored monuments acquired new functions as venues for cultural
activities such as performances and commercial art exhibitions, museums, multimedia
cultural centers and/or visitors' information centers. These activities simultaneously
provide new employment opportunities as well as income through ticket sales, sales of
souvenirs, and, in some cases, the establishment of cafes within the premises, thereby
linking cultural events with economic viability to ensure the partial funding of operations
and maintenance of these venues. Nonetheless, more could have been done to ensure
long-term sustainability through greater attention to thorough planning regarding the
operational and maintenance costs of these public assets. This could possibly have
allowed, for example, budget lines to be opened either in respective municipalities or at
the MOC, depending on jurisdiction, to partially defray such costs.

In the context of the Institutional Development component and particularly with regards
to the Inventory activity, the beneficiaries received training regarding (inter alia)
operations and maintenance. Particular emphasis was placed on the weekly backing up



                                               22

of data and its recording on disks. Arrangements for the payment of interconnectivity
fees have also been emphasized. To this effect the CDCP has paid one year's
subscription fees for the Head Office for the Protection of Cultural Heritage and obtained
the commitment of the MOC State Secretary that the Ministry will include the costs for
the VPN (Virtual Private Network) lines in 2007. Additionally, and in anticipation of the
smaller budgets of the regional institutes, it has also covered the regional institutes'
subscription costs for one year. Furthermore the computer company that designed the
software trained several staff including a systems administrator who can benefit from
back up support and further training by the company for the following three years. In the
context of the entire project, the magnitude of this activity is not comparable to those in
component 1. Nonetheless, there is a concern about the insufficient number of staff
trained at the Regional Institutes (i. e., one individual at each institute). Notwithstanding
repeated requests by the PCU for the MOC to assign more trainees this was not done,
which exposes the Ministry to the risk that capacity could be lost if these individuals
leave.

Sustaining reforms and institutional capacity
In addition to the capacity built within the MOC, the CDCP improved the local NGOs'
capacity significantly through the constant support provided by the project's Regional
Coordinators and Community Development Specialists who helped local communities
and NGO's to define the subprojects, complete project documentation, and implement the
awarded subprojects. They also monitored sub-projects and collected data for assessing
the economic and social benefits of the sub-projects. As a result a number of
municipalities have chosen to avail themselves of this expertise for financial planning,
fund raising, and project development with international donors as well as for continued
support to local NGOs. Most of the coordinators have been hired by the local authorities,
either on a salary or on a commission basis, thus sustaining the institutional capacity of
the municipalities and their constituencies.

In accordance with the National Program for Culture for the period 2004-2008, the
Ministry of Culture will:

    · Cooperate with NGOs in joint projects for creating a favorable climate and for
         creating national programs intended for specific areas of culture;
    · Promote their achievements;
    · Provide financial and human resources to support partnership projects between
         NGOs.

A ripple effect of project implementation was the noticeable empowerment of the PCU
whereby the PCU as an entity gained institutional respect and was given increasing voice
in its transactions with the government. This is further evidenced by the fact that
subsequent to the closing of the project, the PCU, retaining its core staff, registered as an
NGO dedicated to the same line of work undertaken under the auspices of the CDPC.
Furthermore the NGO has been permitted to retain the office equipment and premises,
which are being subsidized by the MOC. More significantly, the latter also agreed to
finance projects deemed of national importance submitted by the NGO for the next



                                               23

twelve months. While the NGO has been using the experience it gained through the
CDCP to generate new projects in collaboration with former and new donors, it is also in
the process of refining a 4 year Memorandum of Cooperation with the MOC. This
collaboration between the NGO sector and the MOC should substantially increase the
Ministry's ability to carry out its mandate.




                                            24

                                3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Following the break-up of Yugoslavia, the Borrower's cultural assets had been neglected
and were perceived as a liability rather than an asset. The project was ground breaking in
using tangible and intangible cultural heritage to attract domestic, regional and
international visitors to relatively undeveloped areas in order to facilitate local
socioeconomic development. By adding a community development emphasis and
empowering local stakeholders, it supported the Government's efforts of decentralization.
The requirement for participating municipalities to elaborate local strategies effectively
helped build their capacity and enhance local self government.

As some of the difficulties encountered with the Institutes for the Protection of
Monuments bear witness, there was a need to improve the management of cultural assets.
The activities undertaken under the MOCGs together with the Institutional Development
component coherently addressed this issue.

A short survey conducted by the PCU at sites that benefited from the AGs, together with
the handicrafts expert's reports and the M&E database, reveal that the project did provide
a catalyst for private sector growth and job creation. Thus, not only was the PDO in line
with the CAS sector related goals (see section 6.1), but the innovative approach of the
project allowed for improvements during implementation to ensure that the objectives
would be met.

The highly participatory implementation mechanisms that engaged local government in
the decision-making processes significantly contributed to the current country priority on
decentralization. The project also indirectly contributed to the realization of the
Framework Agreement (i.e., the peace agreement that ended the conflict of 2002) through
its nonbiased valorization of the common heritage of the Borrower's population
regardless of its ethnic connotations, as a means to reduce social tensions.

Therefore we can conclude that the objectives, design, and implementation were relevant
to country and global priorities and to the Bank's assistance strategy. Nonetheless, the
project design and implementation would have benefited from better policy dialogue with
the national institutions in charge of tourism and their stronger involvement, as well as
better synergies with sectoral ministries, such as Ministry of Transportation and
Communication, whenever applicable to induce an impact multiplier effect.




                                                25

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

The project successfully "established conditions to facilitate community-based socio-
economic development by leveraging its cultural assets to create culture-based industries,
while improving the management of cultural assets particularly at the local level." The
use of a competitive grants program revolving around the topic of culture proved to be
very effective for community mobilization and for promoting the creation of handicrafts
and tourism industries. In so doing it furthermore raised local communities' awareness of
the economic value of their heritage by demonstrating that their preservation could be
efficiently associated with income generation. Thus not only did the project stimulate
economic development in depressed areas of the country but, through targeted technical
assistance, it also improved the management capacity of a range of institutions, thereby
facilitating community-based socio-economic development.

A total of 204 association grants were implemented, of which 54 focusing specifically on
physical cultural heritage, 72 on cultural events (intangible heritage), 11 on natural
heritage, 33 on promotion and signage, and 34 on handicrafts (for more information on
project outputs cf. the Borrower's ICR in Annex 7). While 30% of the grants provided
largely intangible welfare benefits (as measured by the PCU), over 70% contributed to
tangible economic benefits through the development of tourism industries including
goods and services. This healthy socio-economic mix of benefits, together with the
generally positive internal rates of return (see below), suggests that the community
associations/NGOs will remain viable (even in the one case where the IRR is not positive
the association has a positive cash flow). Additional data from a short survey shows that
50% of the grants were instrumental in providing employment. Thus the aspect of the
PDO that pertains to facilitating the development of culture-based industries by
leveraging cultural assets was satisfactorily achieved.

Institutionally, the establishment of NGOs, in itself a positive progression from simple
association and/or CBO status, and the provision of tools for them to have a concrete
impact, legitimized them in the eyes of local governments and helped develop an
effective dialogue. Nearly two thirds of the NGOs closely collaborated with local
authorities, and as a result a number of municipalities retained individuals for continued
support to the development of tourism activities linked to cultural assets. While technical
support was provided to local governments for developing local strategies, they in turn
worked with their constituencies to define their cultural and natural assets. In bridging
governments to their communities civil society was given a stake and, when both
ownership and risk are shared, the probabilities for improved management of cultural
assets inevitably increase. Lastly, one of the most important elements necessary to
achieve assets' management in the context of historic structures is the provision of
targeted expertise. In this context, the combined activities of: a) the digitization of the
national inventory of sites and b) the MOC grants effectively supported better
management of cultural assets at both the local and national levels.



                                                26

3.3 Efficiency

(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

The economic analysis carried out after project completion adopted similar methods as
the analysis made at preparation. As such it sampled five sites and it did not include hard
to quantify benefits such as the non-use value associated with the conservation of nature
and culture, nor those associated with the learning and innovation resulting from the
community based demand driven design of the project. Thus the cost benefit analysis
was based on the primary monetary benefits from increased tourist visits and
expenditures and did not consider multiplier effects. Therefore, what is described here is
essentially a simple financial analysis and would be a lower bound on the economic
benefits of the subprojects. The results of the analysis are summarized in the table below
and further discussed in Annex 3. In four out of five cases the results are positive. And
even in the one case with a negative net present value, since the initial investment was
paid from the project, from the financial perspective of the beneficiary association the
results are satisfactory given that the project has a positive cash flow.

                               Net Present Value (MKD)                     Internal Rate of Return
                         Base case     Pessimistic    Optimistic   Base case      Pessimistic    Optimistic
Project 1: 09-340-08      3,817,721      3,578,000     3,883,829          29%            28%          30%
Project 2: 09-340-12        506,361        424,302       534,134          15%            14%          16%
Project 3: 11-341-69      1,226,247      1,108,292     1,264,395          22%            21%          23%
Project 4: 09-219-01/06  -1,448,058     -1,485,712    -1,432,348            0%            0%           0%
Project 5: 11-223-04        150,937         96,765       169,071          11%            10%          11%


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

Given that the design of the CDCP was relevant and that the PDO was achieved,
combined with the generally positive results of the economic analysis that demonstrate
reasonable efficiency, the overall outcome is rated Satisfactory.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Through employment creation and income generation the CDCP's activities had an
impact on poverty alleviation. It must be observed however that unemployment was
prominent in the project sites and that there were relatively few opportunities for income
generation. In order to have any impact at all, the project had to capitalize on existing
skills that were not necessarily found in the poorest sections of society. Yet the CDCP
made judicious use of training and thus through both the enhancement of skills and the


                                                27

provision of grants, it did begin to have an impact on poverty reduction as evidenced by
the PCU's survey results (see Annex 2 for further details) stating that 17% of CDCP sub-
projects contributed to the creation of permanent employment, while 33% contributed to
seasonal employment (cf. Annex 7 for more details).

With regards to gender aspects, the project respected its original design whereby
proposals submitted in the context of component 1 had to correspond to a number of
criteria, including equity, and therefore it kept a reasonable gender balance. While it did
not particularly favor either gender, the facts that it was demand driven and that the
nature of the activities eligible for funding, such as handicrafts and hospitality industries,
are not gender specific domains, provided equal opportunities for both genders. While
the activities foreseen in component 2 were pre-established and their implementation was
based on expertise, they too did not preclude the participation of women.

The CDCP paid particular attention to youth throughout the project. At the onset, it
consulted youngsters through focus groups in the context of the Social Assessment to
inform grant design. As such, it took their priorities into consideration and ensured that
they would equally benefit from project activities. Whereas the implementation of
activities seldom involved youth attending school, they often did have a direct and
positive impact on such youth (see (c) below).

The most notable achievement of the CDCP however is its contribution to fostering peace
building. The Borrower's population comprises a variety of ethnic groups, including
(inter alia) Slavs, Albanians and Roma, as well as religious denominations, notably
Orthodox Christians and Muslims. Detailed observation shows that access to funding
was not restricted, that support was provided to more disenfranchised segments and that
activities benefiting all groups were implemented. In addition to the impact of the
previously mentioned activities in Skopje, another notable example includes the
financing of works at St. Jovan Bigorski Monastery and at St. Giorgi Pobedonoset
Nunnery, both located in the western part of the country, which is now mostly populated
by ethnic Albanians, and the financing of musical activities in Debar, located in the
immediate vicinity of the latter, to maintain the traditional Albanian folkloric customs.
The culmination of peaceful co-habitation of various cultural identities was evidenced in
the kayaking center, financed by a sub-project, located on Debar Lake that is frequented
by youngsters of both ethnicities.




(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The activities under component 1 have demonstrated substantial institutional change and
strengthening of local governments and NGOs as previously mentioned. Whereas the
nature of the problems that initially troubled the MOCGs were related to the unexpected
lack of capacity of the Institutes for the Protection of Monuments, full remediation within
the context of the CDCP would not have been realistic. Nonetheless, the project, while



                                               28

addressing technical and monitoring issues, by way of additional expertise and sustained
dialogue, also improved the Institutes' lax attitude towards responsibility. Therefore
while the CDCP was not intended to substantially address the long-term capacity and
institutional development of the Institutes; it did however sensitize them to the
importance and the methods of controlling quality.

The inventory activity has, without doubt, strengthened the institutional capacity of the
authorities in charge of monuments in the country. Its impact on longer-term capacity
and institutional development however will depend on the Ministry's willingness to train
more staff.

Finally, the fact that the PCU succeeded in keeping its current coherent structure for
continued activities in the sphere of culture and development indicates that institutional
capacity has been strengthened in a sustainable manner. The MOC's commitment to
support this new NGO, to finance a number of projects, and to entrust it with monitoring
others suggests that a more efficient cooperation is unfolding. By relying on
demonstrated expertise and outsourcing specific activities and responsibilities to NGOs,
the MOC can improve the use of its resources and focus more exclusively on policy
issues. This more cost effective way of operating denotes the beginning of a remarkable
institutional change.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The CDCP had two extremely positive impacts that cannot quite be qualified as
unintended but rather as not explicitly elaborated in the project documents.

The first pertains to the involvement of youth and the impact of certain sub-projects on
education and integration. Taking into account that "recreational" activities were among
the list of eligible activities for sub-project approval, it is the approach taken by NGOs to
recreational activities that is rewarding. In one case, for example, the sub-project
consisted in making underground caves accessible to visitors, thus satisfying the criteria
of natural heritage preservation. The promotion of these natural assets in turn guaranteed
sustainability while creating employment. More interestingly, however, it allowed
teachers to take their classes to these premises in their native country as a complement
to geography classes for the very first time. For, whereas school trips to caves in
Yugoslavia had been standard practice, these trips were always beyond the current
borders as none of the national caves were exploited. Thus since the dismantling of
Yugoslavia, Macedonian school children of the last decade no longer had the possibility
of benefiting from their own resources until the CDCP grant to a local NGO working in
Mavrovo National Park.

The impact on social, racial, and ethnic integration of a number of CDCP activities has
already been elaborated previously.

Another important positive impact of the CDCP consists in the fact that the project
provoked a remarkable change in the perception of tangible heritage and cultural assets.



                                                29

While the project reclaimed the historic environment by rehabilitating noteworthy
buildings and putting them to new uses, the ensuing ripple effect produced in the wake of
the rehabilitations led certain municipalities to take a leading and proactive position in
improving the urban fabric. This was, for example, the case in Debar where. subsequent
to the restoration and rehabilitation of the Hamam (Turkish bath), the municipal
authorities decided to remove a series of newer constructions that obscured the view of
the Hamam roofline and to rebuild them at a height below that of the Hamam. This
demonstrates that the concern for a given panorama as an integral part of site
conservation (something that has been recently introduced by UNESCO as in equal need
of preservation as monuments themselves - the view across the river from the Taj Mahal
in Agra is the most cited example in this case) is being spontaneously adopted by some of
the Borrower's municipalities thanks to the CDCP.

However, the impact has not been entirely positive. In the specific area of conservation
and restoration, inappropriate interventions in some cases either failed to appropriately
address authenticity aspects or resulted in structural inadequacies. On the one hand the
concept of restoration is often equated with that of re-building, with no differentiation
between conservation, restoration, and reconstruction activities. On the other, the
authorities are not always familiar with newer developments and international practices
in the field of conservation. As a consequence, rigid behavior and lack of knowledge are
often accompanied by a lack of standards and skills. In view of this context, the CDCP
can still be credited for improving the perception of local practitioners, although
correcting some of the original technical inaccuracies would require additional funds.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

No Beneficiary Survey was carried out.




                                                30

                   4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

Rating: Moderate

The CDCP has successfully developed the capacity of various stakeholders namely:
NGOs, local government, and the Institute for Monuments and its subsidiaries. In the
process it has increased the accountability of these stakeholders and empowered the
communities in which it was active. All evidence shows that these positive changes are
well rooted and are unlikely to change and thus unlikely to put the development outcome
at a significant risk.

Political volatility however could affect good governance and, subsequently, the
economic sector that in turn could diminish the project's technical and institutional
achievements. Therefore, the rating of Risk to Development Outcome is deemed
moderate.




                                            31

                 5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory


The Bank's performance during identification, preparation and appraisal was satisfactory.
During identification it thoroughly reviewed similar activities carried out in the field of
cultural heritage by the government of the Borrower and other donor agencies, and
identified the gaps in the existing interventions. At preparation it assessed the capacity of
the MOC perhaps a little too optimistically, but by the same token it also effectively
introduced the concept of community development for greater impact and sustainability.
Although a Social Assessment would have been more useful if carried out during
preparation, the time constraints did not allow it and this was remedied by the integration
of social and needs assessments into project implementation. The preparation and
appraisal of the project were undertaken in record time. In addition, the Bank's
exploration throughout preparation of co-financing possibilities was relentless.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory.
Evidence is provided not only by the regular supervision missions that were undertaken
as scheduled but also by the close monitoring and additional efforts to discuss
outstanding issues with the Borrower during additional short missions, especially during
the first two years of the project. Furthermore, this was realized within the limits of the
allotted budget. There were no outstanding fiduciary and safeguards issues and project
execution problems, when they arose, were effectively arbitrated. All project
documentation was objective, effective (Aide-Memoires, ISRs, etc.) and prepared and
submitted in timely fashion.. The Mid-Term Review was particularly effective in
producing practical recommendations that were subsequently implemented by the PCU.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Information was gathered in a thorough manner during identification and the Bank
incorporated its findings in project preparation effectively. Shorter than average
deadlines prevented the SA from being carried out prior to appraisal, a minor
shortcoming. Based on these observations together with the quality and timeliness of
supervision, overall bank performance is rated as satisfactory.




                                                32

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Government of the Borrower was highly committed to the project and stayed
engaged in the design and preparation process, providing competent counterparts who
contributed effectively to project preparation. Ownership and commitment were
demonstrated in the rapid establishment of a National Steering Committee composed of
key institutional stakeholders. Project effectiveness was delayed due to the political
crisis affecting the Borrower in 2001 and the subsequent realignment of the
Government's priorities (to address the crisis). However, the DCA was signed shortly
after the new "Law on Indebtedness", which was holding up effectiveness, was approved
by Parliament.

A new Government was elected during implementation in 2002, which questioned the
project briefly and necessitated extra discussions to clarify the relationship between the
components and the way in which they had been implemented to attain the PDO. This
was smoothly resolved as a productive dialogue ensued between the Bank and the
Borrower.

With the exception of the last few months prior to closing, Government contributions
were undertaken in a timely fashion. The MOC of the Borrower, like MOCs worldwide,
experiences limited budget allocations. Nonetheless, it manifested its commitment to
finance operations after Credit closing as evidenced by its support to the PCU for the
coming year. Should the duration of this commitment be extended to four years, the
transition arrangements could be considered more than adequate. With regards to the
National Inventory of Sites activity, a staff member of the Head Office for the Protection
of Cultural Heritage has received extensive training as a systems administrator.
Furthermore, the MOC has accounted for the costs of the VPN in its 2007 budget, and the
maintenance terms of the equipment procured for this activity are built into the warrantee
that is valid for three years from the time of purchase.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Performance of the PCU, which implemented the project, was satisfactory. While
the project was besieged by a number of primarily external challenges that at times
slowed implementation, the PCU was able to successfully address such issues and
recover from the delays incurred, thereby achieving positive developmental results.

Under the leadership of its highly committed and capable Director, the PCU assumed its
tasks professionally. Whereas the initial PCU staff was small, targeted additional
expertise was recruited at a pace that corresponded to the increase in the workload.
Administrative activities such as procurement, disbursement and financial management
were carried out faultlessly. However, the PCU encountered serious problems in
obtaining qualified individuals in certain areas of expertise such as Community


                                              33

Development and Institutional Learning, both of which are fairly novel fields in the
Borrower's employment arena resulting in a countrywide deficiency of specialists on
these specific topics. Nonetheless, these difficulties were addressed either by selecting
individuals with equivalent experience as in the case of the Community Development
specialist; or by revising the content and purpose of the Institutional Learning activity
that was absorbed, to an extent, in the monitoring mechanisms. This confirmed the
PCU's capacity to take initiatives, which was crucial for the successful implementation of
the CDCP.

As is often the case, the PCU was driven by a concern to ensure that the majority of
credit proceeds be invested in activities to benefit local populations. Yet as staffing
problems were often driven by a lack of capacity, the PCU could have enhanced its
effectiveness by making more extensive use of earmarked funds for targeted training.
Although guidance was provided to staff and the overall office environment at the PCU
was convivial with staff managed in an informal manner, a more structured approach to
complement the weekly staff meetings might have improved the efficiency of the PCU
and avoided reporting delays.

The PCU demonstrated superior negotiating and problem solving skills in a difficult
political environment, and as such acted as an effective intermediary between the Bank
and the Government as well as between Local Governments and Central Government.
Thus the CDCP was implemented in accordance to the PAD and successfully reached the
PDOs in compliance with the covenants and agreements.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Government demonstrated ownership and commitment to achieving the development
objectives at all stages of the project and complied with its fiduciary responsibilities.
More thorough post-project transition arrangements could have improved sustainability.

With the exception of some reporting delays that constitute a minor shortcoming, the
PCU performance was satisfactory. Based on the above, overall borrower performance
is rated as satisfactory.




                                              34

                                    6. LESSONS LEARNED

(both project-specific and of wide general application)

LESSONS SPECIFIC TO CULTURAL HERITAGE

Cultural Assets, Community Development, and Economic Development
The project has demonstrated that cultural assets can function as a positive magnet
for community mobilization, which is the pre-requisite to successful community
development. Through the latter, ownership and consequently stewardship may be
improved. The CDCP has shown that participatory processes combined with targeted
capacity building can indeed change perceptions and actively bring local history and
heritage into the arena of economic development, thereby promoting employment and
income generation as well as assets management.

The World Bank's Comparative Advantage in Culture and Development
Of all multilateral actors, the Bank possesses the best tools to effectively intervene
on Cultural Heritage and, as a consequence, to increase the developmental impact of
such operations. Cultural Heritage, as a public asset that often has proportionally more
non-use value than it has use value, may be disregarded by those who focus only on
short-term economic impacts. However the impact of culture is wide ranging and
contributes to the sustainability of projects. By virtue of the direct dialogue the Bank is
engaged in with its borrowers, it is in a unique position not only to encourage policy
changes but it is also the only institution capable of assisting developing countries
effectively in the management of their heritage since UNESCO, a non lending institution,
is short of funds and the private sector in developing countries is often either nascent or
growing in fiscal environments that have yet to foster private-public partnerships.

Cultural Heritage and Reputational Risk
Conservation and restoration of built heritage is complex, costly and requires very
specific expertise that the Bank should mobilize to ensure that its interventions are
appropriate. Whereas the Bank has demonstrated consistent expertise in the
administrative areas of cultural heritage management such as collections management,
museum management and inventories, tackling conservation and restoration of
monuments implies greater risks. While the Bank has made efforts to engage specialists
in projects where the bulk of activities concerned restoration, as was the case in
Azerbaijan, it still has a tendency to minimize such a need in operations where
conservation is peripheral. To this end it should not only engage experts to oversee all
such operations, regardless of the proportion of funds allocated within the project to
conservation and/or restoration, but it should avoid them unless an assessment has been
made by a peer review panel, preferably international in the case of significant works, lest
a reputational risk be incurred. If adequate allocations cannot be awarded for the proper
expertise and overseeing of conservation and restoration of monuments, the Bank should
not finance such activities/operations.




                                              35

Property Title
Clarification of title prior to interventions on historic structures diminishes risks of
contention and ensures effectiveness of investments. While encouraging public/private
partnerships can support economic development, the use and/or management of public
assets by private entities and the provision of subsidies/grants to public assets linked to
private utilization should be carefully orchestrated and monitored. Even more
importantly, subsidies for improving privately owned property without a clearly defined
rationale can harm the dynamic in communities and ultimately undermine a project's
success. In order to avoid the type of problems that occurred in the Skopje Bazaar with
the building known as the "French Bank" (where, after the restoration works had been
completed and the project embarked on seeking ways to make the investment sustainable,
the title was contested), all the necessary administrative procedures to clarify ownership,
utilization and beneficiaries should be clarified prior to making investments.

Administration of cadastres is slowly being updated in many ECA countries, but as a
general rule the registration process and documentation can at times be challenging and a
little murky as the regulations are not systematically applied. Therefore to improve
transparency, any project that chooses to invest in the restoration of a private edifice in
the context of a culture related project should observe the following: a) ensure that the
property is listed by the national institution in charge of monuments; b) obtain all
documentation relevant to the title prior to undertaking any works; c) create a partnership
whereby the stakeholder will be accountable and/or transfer the management of the
property for a given time to a professional body for a fee until such time as the costs have
been recovered; and d) disseminate this (a, b and c) information publicly.

Financial Planning for Public Assets
Comprehensive approaches to heritage assets management should not disregard
financial planning lest long term sustainability be put at risk. Notwithstanding some
of the remarkable achievements obtained through the MOCGs, the financial sustainability
of the rehabilitated historic structures largely depends on NGOs' performance and the
spending power of consumers (Macedonians and foreigners alike). While this is a good
example of applying private sector tactics, the assets concerned in this case are generally
public. The project could have made use of its ample training budget to provide relevant
financial planning tools, ranging from simple budgeting of maintenance and operations to
cost benefit analysis, to the authorities in charge of these assets.

Signage for Cultural Heritage
Signage components are more complex than they appear and are more likely to be
better implemented by roads and transportation projects. The CDCP is not the only
Cultural Heritage project to have included a signage component and the unsuccessful
outcome is not only attributable to the fact that it came as an afterthought. Rather, prior
experience shows that this is almost a sector specific activity that necessitates close
collaboration with transport authorities and sometimes, depending on the institutional set-
up of a given country, with the police. This experience was not readily available at the
time the CDCP decided to add the signage activity and therefore it could not have been




                                               36

forewarned about the complexity of the undertaking. It might however have availed itself
of the Transport Sector Project that was still active at that time.

LESSONS OF GENERAL APPLICATION

Benefits of Additional Funding
The benefits of additional funding should be carefully weighed against the
opportunity cost and the time and efforts to obtain such funding. While seeking
additional funds and obtaining them often enlarges the scope of a project and legitimizes
it in the eyes of institutional stakeholders, the use of trust funds can sometimes be
distracting as they often take considerable human resources away from main objectives
without necessarily adding value to the project (as was the case of the Information
Communication Technology activity). In contrast, the Dutch Government Grant did
allow a significantly greater number of physical works to be carried out. Nonetheless, a
careful assessment of the pros and cons should have been undertaken prior to embarking
on the time consuming and resource straining search for additional funding.

Policy reform
Integrating policy dialogue for reforms, whenever appropriate, is important for
positively influencing outcomes and the sustainability of investments. The project
was very much focused on the effective management of its activities with a view to
achieving the proposed objectives, which it indeed did. However the important role of
policies was somewhat overlooked at the design stage. Whereas there was a conscious
decision not to intervene at the policy level in order to simplify the LIL, the results
obtained could have been better anchored and more sustainable had they been
complemented by a stronger emphasis on policy dialogue with the borrower as an
integral part of the project. One of the numerous motivations for policy reforms is rooted
in tested operations that manifest tangible and positive results. The Bank has the ability,
and to a certain extent the authority, to create a platform for policy discussions as well the
tools ­ e.g., the operations ­ that provide the evidence necessary for reforms.

Disbursement Schedules
There is a direct correlation between the nature of a project and its disbursement
flows, and disbursement schedules can be more adequate if designed accordingly.
Disbursement schedules should be more realistic and correspond more closely to the
nature of the investments concerned. Task Teams often come under pressure to prepare
disbursement schedules that correspond to Country Units' priorities and programs; and
projects get downgraded if schedules have not been adhered to, reflecting negatively on
both lenders and borrowers. One way to remedy this would be to set varying
disbursement benchmarks according to the nature of projects. The Bank has ample data
and an analysis, along the lines of the "Standard Disbursement Profiles" that used to be
produced until 1993 and provided guidelines for Task Team Leaders, would allow task
teams to devise disbursement schedules accordingly. In any case, Task Teams should
spend more time on preparing credible disbursement projections, which should reflect
country experience.




                                               37

Consistency in the Application of Standards
Changing standards "mid-stream" can have detrimental results. Over the course of
CDCP implementation, the basis for rating Implementation Progress shifted from rating
the performance of the Implementing Agency to rating implementation progress relative
to what had been planned. As noted in section 2.2, this resulted in downgrading the
project when performance was actually improving. While the new standards may well
have been more realistic, this had a significant detrimental impact on counterpart morale.


7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES/PARTNERS

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

None.

(b) Cofinanciers

Comments on issues raised by the Government of the Netherlands (cf. Annex 8):

The World Bank's Task Team acknowledges the significant contribution of the
Government of the Netherlands in enlarging the initial scope of the project and providing
support to successfully attaining the project's development objectives.

Some of the comments provided by the co-financier suggest a degree of confusion with
respect to responsibilities regarding project implementation. When the Bank agrees to
manage donor co-financing, this financing is implemented on exactly the same basis as
projects where the World Bank is the only external financier. Project implementation is
primarily the responsibility of the Borrower and Implementing Agency, not the Bank.
The role of the World Bank, as a lender, is to supervise and provide guidance for project
implementation.

Our responses to some of the specific issues raised by the co-financier are given below:

1. The Task Team visited the Netherlands Embassy on every supervision mission (and
local staff were more frequently in contact) to brief the co-financiers on project
implementation progress and review outstanding issues. However the Team did not
discuss the extension request while it was being internally processed prior to receiving a
communication on this from the Netherlands Embassy.

2. The National Steering Committee (NSC) was established as a decision making entity
by the Borrower. Initially it took on inappropriate responsibilities. This problem was
identified by the Bank's Task Team. This led to the reconstitution of the NSC by the
Borrower with a more clear and appropriate mandate. The Operations Officer referred to
by the co-financier was selected by the Bank precisely so as to be able to increase the
intensity of supervision for this and two other projects co-financed by the Dutch. As
noted by the co-financier, this increased intensity of supervision contributed to




                                             38

strengthening the capacity of the Borrower's Project Coordination Unit to more
efficiently manage the project.

3. The CDCP implementation coincided with the decentralization of the Loan
Department of the Bank. As in many transitions, this resulted in some problems of
communication. Indeed operational staff at Bank headquarters also experienced
communication problems during this transition phase. The Embassy's comment has been
duly noted and will provide an important lesson learned for future operations.

4. Aide-mémoires are intended to report on the status of implementation and key issues
that need to be addressed at the time of a given mission. The very reason why the Bank
tries to undertake regular and frequent supervision is that the implementation situation
and issues that need to be resolved do evolve and change, often over a short span of time.

5. The Task Team continually acknowledged certain PCU weaknesses and worked with
the PCU to help it build its capacity. In particular, the Task Team focused on helping the
PCU focus and report on outcomes and project impact.

6. The Task Team agrees with the co-financier that while significant results were
achieved, as mentioned in section 2.5, some reservations remain about the measures
taken by the Borrower for following up on the project's physical and human investments.




(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                             39

                        ANNEX 1. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING




(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                       Appraisal          Actual/Latest
            Components               Estimate (USD       Estimate (USD      Percentage of

                                         million)           million)         Appraisal

INTEGRATED SITE
DEVELOPMENT                                      5.20                 6.30        121.15

INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
AT THE NATIONAL LEVEL                            0.92                 2.20        239.13

                Total Baseline Cost              6.12                 8.50
Physical Contingencies                           0.00
Price Contingencies                              0.00
                Total Project Costs              6.12
Front-end fee PPF                                0.25                 0.00          0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                               0.00                 0.00          0.00
         Total Financing Required                6.37                 8.50



(b) Financing


                                               Appraisal     Actual/Latest
         Source of Funds           Type of                                  Percentage of
                                  Financing  Estimate (USD  Estimate (USD
                                                million)        million)      Appraisal

 Borrower                                             0.66              1.00      151.52
 Local Communities                                    0.42              0.00
 INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT                                           5.00              5.90      118.00
ASSOCIATION
 ITALY: DEV. COOP.                     Trust
DEPARTMENT (MOFA)                      Fund           0.04              0.00

 NETHERLANDS: MIN. OF
FOREIGN AFFAIRS / MIN. OF              Trust          0.74              0.99      133.78
DEV. COOP.                             Fund




                                          40

                            ANNEX 2. OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT


The project successfully established conditions to facilitate community-based
socioeconomic development by leveraging its cultural assets to create culture-based
industries, while improving the management of cultural assets. The PDO was achieved.
To measure the impact of the CDCP, the following KPIs were devised: i) community
associations created/supported at project sites remain viable, and ii) municipal
governments work effectively with local communities.

Component 1, which addressed Integrated Site Development through Community Grants
(CGs), Association Grants (AGs) and the Ministry of Culture Grants (MOCGs), aimed at
creating employment and income, while increasing local and institutional capacity. One
of the expected outputs was that community-based tourism and crafts industries
would be organized around cultural assets at the selected sites. This was measured
by the implementation of site plans and the number and types of industries developed.

The Association Grants were classified into 5 categories and the data show that of the
204 AGs implemented, 72 were dedicated to cultural events, 54 to cultural heritage, 11 to
natural heritage, 34 to promotion and signage, and 33 to handicrafts, thus covering a
significant range of culture-based activities that fostered income generation and tourism
development. Additionally, the PCU devised a set of attributes to evaluate the type of
benefit these grants provided. These included: economic benefits, educational benefits,
recreational benefits and tourism development. While certain grants produced dual
benefits, approximately 70% contributed to tourism development and 30% provided
welfare benefits such as recreational or educational opportunities. More importantly,
25% of the sub-projects cooperated with private enterprises and the 33 handicrafts
projects generated a total income of US$ 144,000 for an investment of US$ 329,710.
Referring to the disbursement profile and considering that the majority of sub-projects
began implementation in the first quarter of 2004, these results, showing that 50% of the
investments were recovered within a year and a half, are extremely positive since as a
rule of thumb it takes no less than 3 years for a business to break even.

The Community Grants, a second grant line for small grants under US$ 500, were
awarded for community services such as park cleaning, scouts' activities, and student
projects related to cultural and natural heritage. More flexible both in terms of the
entities that could apply for them (CBOs, NGOs, individuals, etc.) and in terms of the
simple application procedure, their underlying purpose consisted of providing a boost to
community development. As auxiliary projects that complemented the local cultural and
tourism community offer, they were useful in filling small gaps and enhancing local
strategies. Although no more than 5 % of the amount given for the association grants
was allocated for the community grants projects and although they bore high
administrative costs, their proportional impact was very high as they fostered welfare and
provided a springboard for the more sustainable Association Grants. Most of the projects
were connected with publishing promotional material, while some of them were used for
community urban equipment such as park fountains, garbage boxes, benches, access



                                              41

paths, and similar low cost/high impact activities yielding visible benefits for the entire
community.

Within this same component, the second expected output aimed at achieving improved
management of cultural assets and related activities by increasing communities' capacity
through technical assistance and training. In addition to the participatory processes
described in section 2.1 that ultimately contributed to local empowerment, stakeholders
received training that aimed to raise the level of proficiency of NGOs as beneficiaries of
the grants including: the development of adequate business skills, strategic planning,
procurement, financial management, product development, costing and pricing of
consumer articles, as well as marketing strategies to enable the livelihood initiatives to be
sustainable. The impact of the trainings is manifested by the fact that surveys conducted
in 6 regions with 49 NGOs show that 82% continue to support activities related to CDCP
financed sub-projects and that 89% have applied for other sources of funding.

To the merit of the implementation design, the Social and Needs Assessment and Action
Plan encouraged municipalities to define their cultural and natural assets and develop
local strategies. Furthermore, through the establishment of local working groups, the
project encouraged local decision-making and accountability. Finally, through the AGs it
gave municipalities the opportunity to work with NGOs and vice-versa.

For the purpose of assessing the project's impact and performance, the PCU undertook a
short survey (30 questions) with NGOs in all the municipalities that benefited from the
CDCP. While most of the questions were directed towards assessing the performance of
the PCU, the design of the small grants, and the effectiveness of administrative
procedures it is nonetheless interesting to note that 66% collaborated with the local
authorities during the application preparation. Furthermore, when questioned about
increased project development skills, 67% believed that they gained new skills and
experience and 25% stated that they gained fund raising skills. The survey also shows
that of the interviewed NGOs that implemented CDCP financed sub-projects, 17%
contributed to the creation of permanent employment, while 33% contributed to seasonal
employment.

Indeed not only did the project impart associative principles successfully but it actually
contributed to enlarging the NGO sector and strengthening their organizational
capabilities. In the context of the Borrower where, at the onset of the project capable
CBOs and NGOs were scarce and competing for funds, and planning and scheduling
activities were not well developed, 95% of the sub-projects that included civil works had
written commitments from their municipalities. This not only demonstrates the capacity
to efficiently forecast activities and the support from the municipalities, but also indicates
a healthy state of the constructive relationship between local governments and NGOs.
Furthermore, 80% of the NGOs that applied for a second round of grants saw them
approved thus demonstrating acquired knowledge and practical application of this
acquisition to operational uses. Other findings such as the incidence of cooperation either
amongst NGOs (10%) or with authorities (20%) at the municipal or national level
indicate strengthened civil society. The change of behavior from the pilot sites to the



                                              42

subsequent interventions at the 15 additional sites, and from rivalry to joint planning, is
remarkable and significantly increased the qualitative and quantitative achievements of
the project. It demonstrates that the CDCP established the necessary foundation for real
community development and for building synergies and cooperation between various
stakeholders. In all likelihood, the fact that municipal governments work effectively with
local communities will ensure that the community associations created and/or supported
at project sites will remain viable.

While the MOCGs did not have a specific output indicator associated with them by virtue
of the fact that they were introduced at negotiations, they supported the PDO and
complemented both components of the CDCP since a pre-requisite of the MOCGs was
that they be linked to the local integrated tourism and community development strategies,
or provide linkage between the various elements of the strategy. On the one hand they
provided venues for cultural activities and local tourism products and services, thus
fostering local economic development and community benefits. They also contributed
to sense of local identity and raised communities' and local governments' level of
awareness of the benefits associated with preserving cultural assets. On the other hand,
they provided an opportunity to directly make use of the tools provided by the
Institutional Development component as the latter was being implemented. Thus, the
MOCGs satisfied both of the expected outputs, namely: community-based tourism and
crafts industries would be organized around cultural assets at the selected sites; as well as
improved management of cultural assets and related activities by increasing the
communities' capacity through technical assistance and training.

By the closing of the CDCP, 38 MOCGs were completed. Through the project historic
buildings were saved from ruin and put to new uses thus making them accessible to
Macedonians and international visitors alike. The edifices restored by the project include
manifestations of religious as well as vernacular architecture in areas that vary in terms of
ethnicity. Some example of new uses afforded by the MOCG rehabilitations include:


    · The Old Magaza in Bitola. Restoration allows it to function as a multimedia
        cultural center enriching the cultural life of the city and its tourist offer.
    · The Officer's Club in Bitola. The restoration of the roof and façades and
        rehabilitation of the building now permit the premises to be used as a small
        theater for various performances including traditional music and lectures.
    · The Hamam (Turkish bath) in Debar. A unique monumental structure that,
        following restoration, will be used as an art gallery.
    · The Clock Tower in Kratovo. One of the outstanding architectural monuments in
        the country, it now functions as an ethnology museum and houses a café and a
        shop selling local handicrafts on the ground floor.
    · The Culture Center Dragi Tozija in Resen. The rehabilitation allowed for new
        functions to be introduced, including a tourist information bureau, a souvenir
        shop, and a permanent art gallery.




                                              43

    · St. Jovan Bigorski Monastery. The installation of central heating in a wing
       dedicated to overnight visitors to one of the country's most famous sacred sites
       now possesses increased accommodation capacity.
    · The House of Jordan Hadzi Konstantinov Dzinot in Veles. Following restoration,
       this noteworthy example of vernacular architecture (formerly the residence of the
       first journalist in the country) will now house the Association of Macedonian
       Cities with Architectural Heritage and a journalism museum.

Component 2 produced a computerized and digitalized inventory for registered historic
buildings, a Handicrafts Assessment and a Tourism Assessment. The inventory activity
included the creation of a database and training for its application that resulted in the
development of management skills at local and central levels while increasing technical
capacity. The critical advantage of this new format for keeping records is that it provides
a central database accessible to the regional institutes, which are no longer isolated and
can share data while working with a standardized information system. This will facilitate
condition reports and improve the management of assets. Although a great deal of data
has been collected, it has not all been entered in the database. Nonetheless, the process
has begun and having a digitalized inventory capability puts the Borrower at the forefront
of Ministries of Culture of the region. The inventory results will be accessible on a new
website automatically created by the database and intended for public presentation. Thus,
not only will management of assets be more efficient, but the assets will also be promoted
thus enlarging the activity's scope and impact by providing an additional attraction pole
for potential visitors. This activity surpassed expectations and has also encouraged
improved computer literacy and use in the Institutes.

By providing an analysis of the situation at the onset of the project, the Handicrafts
Assessment considerably contributed to the strategy for the development of related
industries at all levels, and it allowed the PCU to assess handicrafts sub-projects
efficiently. The assessment also initiated a dialogue with Aid to Artisans (ATA) and the
concrete results described previously are a testimony to how such studies can be
beneficial not only in terms of their content but also as conduits for collaboration.

Regrettably, although a workshop, which gathered 150 participants from all sectors to
present and discuss the findings of the Tourism Assessment, was undertaken; it did not
yield any notable changes in terms of policy. This may be on account of the weak
capacity and the lack of commitment of the institution in charge of tourism.




                                              44

                       ANNEX 3. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS

(including assumptions in the analysis)

Analysis of Economic rate of return/Net Present Value

The five project sites which were selected for the cost benefit analysis (see table 2 below)
include production of both goods and services. The cost benefit analysis is based on the
incremental primary monetary benefits which come from increased tourist visits and
expenditures on food and lodging, and sale of handicrafts (knitted products). The
analysis does not include multiplier effects on businesses that would support these
primary sectors. It also does not include non-monetary benefits such as environmental
protection, conservation of culture, and effects on quality of life (as a result of recreation
in a healthy environment). Nor does it include such sunk costs as the value of existing
buildings. Additional investments and business expansion effects have also not been
included, even though at least two of the five sample projects are planning to expand their
operations, one of which is at an advanced stage of this process. The boarding school in
Bogomila (project 1), which now has capacity of about 30 beds, will be expanded with
another floor, increasing the capacity to some 60 beds. The mountain hut Cheples
(project 2) is planning to attract foreign tourists by adding several upper rooms. This
suggests that good rates of return are indeed prompting further investment.

The data in table 1 is based on real data from project beneficiaries for the first year. The
sensitivity analysis then makes differing assumptions about the future evolution of costs
and revenues. Derived from information from the project beneficiaries, it primarily
reflects differing number of visitors. The analysis reveals significant divergence in the
estimated IRR: from a high of 30% for project 1 under the optimistic scenario to 0 for
project 4 under all scenarios. It should be noted however that even in this latter case the
association has a positive cash flow. Although the IRR figures should be treated as only
indicative, four out of the five project sites have positive IRRs and two have an IRR
greater than the expected IRR of 18% in the CDCP project appraisal document (PAD).

                                Net Present Value (MKD)                 Internal Rate of Return
                         Base case     Pessimistic  Optimistic   Base case     Pessimistic   Optimistic
Project 1: 09-340-08      3,817,721      3,578,000    3,883,829        29%            28%         30%
Project 2: 09-340-12        506,361        424,302      534,134        15%            14%         16%
Project 3: 11-341-69      1,226,247      1,108,292    1,264,395        22%            21%         23%
Project 4: 09-219-01/06  -1,448,058     -1,485,712   -1,432,348         0%             0%          0%
Project 5: 11-223-04        150,937         96,765      169,071        11%            10%         11%


Three of the project sites provide services (accommodation), one is a manufacturing
business (souvenirs and accessories), and one is a mix of products and services offered to
the visitors of the cultural site (mosque). Project 5, the production of souvenirs and
accessories, is the most inclusive in terms of the monetary benefits generated by the
project, thus it could be considered as being most representative for the estimation of the
economic rate of return. The sites that provide accommodation do not include spending



                                                45

on food and drinks (as such data is not available), and the site based on visits to the
mosque does not include tourist spending outside the mosque.

Table 2 below identifies the projects selected for the economic analysis along with the
baseline data on which the projections and scenarios are based.

Table 2

 Project      Project description Revenue source              Number of   Price per day for       Total
 Reference                                                    stays       board (in denars)       Revenue
 number
 Project 1:   Adaptation of a     service (food and lodging)  1,436       650                     933,400
 09-340-08    boarding school for
              students
 Project      Project description Revenue source              Number of   Price per day for       Total
 Reference                                                    stays       accommodation (in       Revenue
 number                                                                   denars)
 Project 2:   Mountain hut        service (lodging)           3,240       120                     388,800
 09-340-12    Cheples
 Project      Project description Revenue source              Number of   Average amount spent    Total
 Reference                                                    visitors    per visitor (in denars) Revenue
 number
 Project 3:   Haxi Ramadan        sale of goods               6,000       90                      540,000
 11-341-69
 Project      Project description Revenue source              Number of   Price per day for       Total
 Reference                                                    stays       accommodation (in       Revenue
 number                                                                   denars)
 Project 4:   Mountain Hut        service (lodging)           1,490       150                     223,500
 09-219-      Papradiste
 01/06
 Project      Project description Revenue source              Number of   Average amount spent    Total
 Reference                                                    visitors    per visitor (in denars) Revenue
 number
 Project 5:   Production and sale sale of goods               1,200       190                     228,000
 11-223-04    of homemade
              accessories


The economic analysis was done on five sample project sites, which were selected on two
criteria: (1) ability to measure direct effects and (2) availability of data. Data on revenue
and expenditures, as well as the future projections, are based on the financial data
submitted by beneficiaries to the project, supplemented by interviews to provide a basis
for future projections. In order to determine the various scenarios, the sensitivity analysis
referred to the number of visitors while assuming fairly constant costs, thus the number
of visitors is the variable that determines overall revenue. With this assumption (costs
will be more or less fixed at the revenue level under the base scenario): i) under a
pessimistic scenario, revenues will drop as a result of fewer visitors while costs remain
constant; and ii) under an optimistic scenario, a higher number of visitors/revenues will
also lead to higher costs. These assumptions are summarized in the table below.




                                                        46

Table 3

Assumption/Scenario  Base case  Pessimistic Optimistic
Discount rate        8%         8%         8%
Revenue growth rate  2%         -2%        3%
Costs growth rate    2%         0%         2%




                               47

 ANNEX 4. BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES



(a) Task Team members


                                       Names
                                        Title
                                        Unit
                               Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Dilek Barlas        Sr. Counsel             LEGEC         Lawyer
Emilia Battaglini   Sr. Operations Off.     ECSSD         Co-Task TL, preparation.

Irene Bomani        Senior Program
                    Assistant               ECSSD         Sr. Program Assistant

Rajna Cemerska-
Krtova              Operations Officer      ECSHD         Operations Officer

Nicholay Chistyakov Senior Finance Officer  LOAG1         Disbursement Officer
Philippe Dongier    Sector Manager          CITPO         Peer Reviewer

Kreszentia M. Duer  New Business
                    Development Leader      WBICD         Peer Reviewer

Elena Galliano      Consultant              ECSSD         Community Dev.
                                                          Specialist
Hans Jurgen Gruss   Chief Counsel          LEGEC          Lawyer

Naushad A. Khan     Lead Procurement
                    Specialist              ECSPS         Lead Proc. Specialist

Julian A. Lampietti Lead Specialist         ECSSD         Economic Analysis
Arben Maho          Procurement Analyst     ECSPS         Procurement Specialist
Bremala Nathan      Operations Officer      AFTRL         Operation Assistance
Beaulah C. Noble    Program Assistant       ECSSD         Program Assistant
Daphne Sawyerr-Dunn Program Assistant       ECSSD         Program Assistant
Kenneth E. Sigrist  Consultant              PRMPS         Inst. Devel. & Learning
Gurdev Singh        Consultant              ECSSD         Procurement
Samir M. Suleymanov Sr. Operations Off.     ECSSD         Operations Analyst
June Taboroff       Consultant              ECSSD         Cultural Res. Specialist
Seema Tikare        Consultant              ECSPE         Institutional Assessment

Jasminka Varnalieva Private Sector
                    Development Specialist  ECSPF         Project Officer

Mark C. Woodward    Senior Social
                    Development Specialist  ECSSD         TTL since 07/03/2000

Supervision/ICR
Elmas Arisoy        Sr. Procurement Spec.   EAPCO         Procurement supervision

Alina Bakunina      Consultant              ECSSD         Inform. Com.
                                                          Technology
Nicholay Chistyakov Senior Finance Officer  LOAG1         Disbursement Officer


                                          48

Olav Rex ChristensenSr. Financial
                    Management Specialist  ECSPS    Fin. Manag. Specialist

Aleksandar          Financial Management
Crnomarkovic        Analyst                ECSPS    Fin. Manag. Specialist

Marina Djabbarzade  Consultant             ECSSD    Heritage Man. & Com.
                                                    Dev.
Katrinka Ebbe       Consultant             EASUR    Integr. Site Development

Elena Galliano      Consultant             ECSSD    Community Dev.
                                                    Specialist
Bekim Imeri         Social Scientist       ECSSD    Operations Officer
Kenneth E. Sigrist  Consultant             PRMPS    Inst. Devel. & Learning
Nikolai Soubbotin   Sr. Counsel           LEGEC     Lawyer
June Taboroff       Consultant             ECSSD    Cultural Res. Specialist

Jasminka Varnalieva Private Sector
                    Development Specialist ECSPF    Project Officer

Mark C. Woodward    Senior Social
                    Development Specialist ECSSD    TTL since 07/03/2000

Sandro Zanus MichieiLead Financial
                    Management Specialist  ECSPS    Fin. Manag. Specialist




                                        49

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

           Stage of Project Cycle                               USD Thousands
                                          No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                consultant costs)
Lending
                   FY99                                                       5.23
                   FY00                                     5                42.69
                   FY01                                   42                194.59
                   FY02                                                       1.21
                   FY03                                                       0.00
                   FY04                                                       0.00
                   FY05                                                       0.00
                   FY06                                                       0.00
                   FY07                                                       0.00
                                   Total:                 47                243.72
Supervision/ICR
                   FY99                                                       0.00
                   FY00                                                       0.00
                   FY01                                                       0.00
                   FY02                                   18                 53.93
                   FY03                                   15                 48.38
                   FY04                                   14                 39.36
                   FY05                                   23                 75.06
                   FY06                                   20                 92.74
                   FY07                                     3                24.44
                                   Total:                 93                333.91




                                       50

                      ANNEX 5. BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS

(if any)

No beneficiary survey undertaken.




                                       51

            ANNEX 6. STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS

(if any)

No stakeholder workshop undertaken.




                                     52

                                ANNEX 7. BORROWER'S ICR


Project's objective

On June, 2001 the Board of World Bank Executive Directors approved the Community
Development and Culture Project, while the Parliament of Republic of Macedonia
approved it at the beginning of 2002.

The main project objective of the Community Development and Culture Project was to
establish conditions that facilitate community-based socio-economic development by
leveraging one of the country's untapped resources, its cultural assets, to create culture-
based industries (notably handicrafts and community-based tourism) in areas adjacent to
cultural heritage sites, while improving the management of cultural assets, particularly at
local level.

Project's design

The primary activity that was planned to be funded under the project was the
development of sets of interrelated sub-projects clustered in and around a limited number
of communities possessing sites and other assets of cultural importance. These activities
and sites were selected through a competitive, demand-driven process. Criteria for
selection were designed to encourage synergies and to promote community development
and poverty reduction. These sub-projects were supported with capacity building
measures to help develop community based and business management skills. Thus the
first component was integrated site development. However, for such measures at the
community level to have maximum effect, national level capacity also needed to be built,
therefore a component for institutional development at national level was included.

Integrated Site Development

This component aimed at developing sets of cultural industries and actions in several
pilot sites through priority investments, conservation measures and local level capacity
building. Sites were selected by the National Steering Committee and in consultation
with the World Bank, following a nation-wide public outreach campaign. After selecting
the sites, within the selected communities social needs assessments, identification of local
heritage and action plans were carried. This resulted with financing clusters of sub-
project activities of three main types: handicrafts, community-based tourism and site
improvements and conservation measures.

Three lines of financing for grants were envisaged: the main grant fund was for sub-
projects requiring grants in an amount fixed to 30,000 US$ (during the project
implementation the amount was enlarged up to 40,000 US$). A second grant line was for
smaller grants till 500$(after 2 years of implementation it was decided to cut this grant
line due to the small scale activities and big administration work). The third one was for
activities related to the preservation of cultural monuments that were proposed by the
Ministry of Culture, in the sites where CDCP was implemented.


                                              53

Institutional Development at the National Level

This component was planned to support the local level activities by providing needed
information for successful mobilization of cultural assets in support of community
development, particularly at project sites. Therefore, three activities were carried out: (1)
the existing national inventory of cultural sites to be further developed as a multipurpose
planning tool (2) a handicraft assessment and action plan to determine the scope of
existing handicrafts and make recommendations for future product and business
development (3) a tourism assessment and action plan to determine the current
organization, performance, needs, and opportunities for the sector with regard to cultural
and eco-tourism potential.

Project's implementation

Achievement of Objective/Outcome

During the four year period of implementation of this project, the Government of
Republic of Macedonia successfully implemented the objectives envisaged with the
Community Development and Culture Project, thus creating conditions for faster
community development and poverty reduction, through activating the cultural and
natural heritage and developing new cultural industries. The implementation of 352
subprojects (38 Ministry of Culture Grants; 204 Association Grants and 110 Community
Grants) in 17 municipalities + Skopje Old Bazaar, resulted with average of 12,000
handicraft products sold in the last year, development of 4268 new products, 300,000
visitors in the sites, 122 new employments, participation by 60 NGO's on 3 national and
6 international fairs, more than 1600 accommodations in the renovated houses-cultural
heritage monuments, improved management of more than 40 cultural heritage
monuments, creation of new 46 NGO's that were granted by the CDCP etc. The
indicators are collected on a monthly basis in the last year of the projects life cycle, while
many subproject activities were still running. It is expected that these figures will
significantly increase after the completion of the project.

The preparation of the assessment and action plan for handicrafts and tourism were a
good base for defining the priorities to be financed under the project. Also those studies
reflected the different needs for training and marketing which were afterwards
implemented by the CDCP. At the same time, another huge impact on the country's
development was made by implementing the project for digitalization and modernization
of the existing inventory for cultural heritage. A very advanced digital system was
deployed that enables digital registration and data collection of the movable and
immovable cultural heritage, more efficient monitoring, protection and maintenance of
the cultural heritage, instant and easy access to information about Macedonian cultural
heritage not only by the institutions, but by the broad public as well. This initiated a
creation of a regional center for digitalization, by UNESCO.




                                              54

More precisely the following activities were undertaken:

Integrated Site Development

As planned within the design of the project three lines of grants were implemented:

Ministry of Culture Grants
The Ministry of Culture Grants' aim was to revitalize the cultural heritage buildings of
outstanding national importance in the municipalities where the project was
implemented.

The monuments were chosen in accordance with the priority list defined by the Ministry
of Culture. The Institutes for Protection of Cultural Heritage were in charge and
responsible for preparation of studies and designs for reconstruction and rehabilitation of
the buildings. Through this activity 38 important cultural monuments in 17
municipalities + the Skopje Old Bazaar were revitalized meaning that they were not only
restored but at the same time a special attention was given to their function i.e. use in
order to became sustainable and produce certain economic benefit for the municipalities.
Buildings such as the Clock Tower in Kratovo, Amam in Debar, Magaza and House of
Army in Bitola, the houses of Kasapovi and Djinot in Veles, the French Bank, Oldest
Shop and Illumination Project in the Old Bazaar in Skopje, the monastery of St. Jovan
Bigorski in Mavrovo and Rostusa, monastery in Slepce, are some of the important
cultural monuments of national importance that were restored. Since sustainability was
an important issue of the CDCP, before approving the MoC grants, the use of the
buildings upon restoration, was decided by the municipalities and the MoC, i.e., Institutes
for Protection of Cultural Heritage. It was decided that they are going to be given to
NGO's or private firms to use them for activities that are connected with cultural issues
however also to include some function that would create income (restaurant for
traditional food, cafeterias, tourist bureau, souvenir shop etc). However some of the
municipalities prioritized certain cultural monuments to be restored that the first year
might not be economically sustainable. In such a case it was negotiated and approved
from the municipalities to include the maintenance of the building and certain subsidiary
within their budget for the next year.

This implementation of this activity also resulted with strengthening the capacity of the
national institutions i.e. Institutes for Protection of Cultural Heritage. Namely, for the
first time the projects prepared by those institutes were subject of "revision" which
resulted with a positive impact on working procedures of the institutes.

Association grants

The main grant fund was allocated for realization of sub-projects submitted by NGO's. In
the 17 municipalities 204 projects were implemented and they became a good source for
economic development in these municipalities. They were connected with the following
fields: cultural heritage (54 projects implemented); natural heritage (11 projects




                                               55

implemented); traditional cultural events (72projects); promotion and signage (34); and
handicrafts (33).

Besides promoting the cultural and natural heritage, renewing the old handicrafts and
initiating new income in the communities, the CDCP also played an important role in
strengthening the local capacities. Namely, the municipalities were developing their
planning capacities, being actively involved within preparation of the Social Needs
Assessments, Identification of the Local Heritage and preparing Action Plans which were
base for financing subprojects. The communities were encouraged to define their own
cultural and natural assets, increase access to their heritage and provide local support for
endangered heritage, as well as seek national recognition for it. They were also
becoming more aware for their responsibility regarding the decision making for the
selection of granted sub-projects.

A cooperation between most of the municipalities and NGO's was initiated that resulted
with support of the activities of the NGO's through covering the VAT, the expenses for
the premises of the NGO's, documentation, supervision of conservation works.

As part of the activities carried out by the CDCP were the trainings that aimed to raise the
level of proficiency of the NGO's as beneficiaries of the grants. The following trainings
were carried: strategic planning, procurement, financial management, new trends, product
development, the process of costing and pricing, market promotion, participation at fairs
and other.

The handicraft projects were supported through adequate trainings for market readiness
trainings and promotion at fairs. Special accent was given to improve the traditional
Macedonian forms, designs and materials in order to develop product lines attractive for
the local and foreign market and at the same time to keep the traditional Macedonian
handicraft skills. During the project life in spring and Christmas time in 2005 and 2006
handicrafts fairs were organized by the PCU in cooperation with a USAID Project/ATA
where the artisans financed by the PCU had an opportunity to promote and sell their
products.

Special role in successful implementation of the subprojects played the 7 regional
coordinators who helped the municipalities and NGO's apply, implement and monitor the
activities. They were trained by the PCU staff as well as by consultants hired by the PCU
and become very useful for the municipalities in implementing other projects financed by
international donors.

Community grants

110 community grants were implemented in 17 municipalities. In accordance with the
allocated amount of money they were granted for small scale of activities. They were
implemented at the beginning of the project and were a good experience for the local
people that previously have never been in contact with implementation of projects and
donors.



                                              56

Institutional Development at the National Level

In order to support the local level activities the following activities were carried out:

1) Digitalization of cultural heritage and the inventory of cultural heritage
The digitalization of the cultural heritage was a nation wide project that included all of
the institutions concerned with the protection of the cultural heritage. The project was
designed to establish a sophisticated digital system for digitalization with a centralized
servers, software and equipment for field and office work. The software consists of "of
the shelf" software which will be used for digital production of data and digitalization of
the existing data, and a custom made database software for recording the digital data in a
central location that will be available to all institutions. The custom tailored software
was designed to be developed according to the guidelines and rulebook produced by the
Head Office for Protection of Cultural Heritage in cooperation with a cultural protection
heritage expert and an IT expert, both hired by the PCU. The policies and procedures for
protection of cultural heritage established in the rulebook were developed in accordance
with the Council of Europe's "Core Data Standard". In addition, the centralized database
has a module that creates dynamic integral web-site of cultural heritage which will
contribute for a popularization of the cultural heritage and will be used in the country's
tourism offer.

The digitalization of the cultural heritage activity was implemented in two separate
phases. The first phase was digitalization of the Immovable Cultural Heritage and the
second one was digitalization of the Movable Cultural Heritage.

The first phase of the project resulted in establishing a sophisticated digital system with
centralized servers at the Head Office for Protection of Cultural Heritage and 7 regional
centers connected to the servers through VPN. All of the institutions and the Head office
for protection of cultural heritage were provided with necessary IT equipment and
software. The staff received certified trainings for specific types of software installed as
well as training on specific hardware use.

The second phase of this project included the institutions responsible for protection of
movable cultural heritage in the existing system. The project included 20 institutions for
protection of movable cultural heritage which were supplied with the necessary
equipment for digitalization. They were provided with software for digitizing and
additions to the existing custom software were made to include the movable cultural
heritage. Dedicated staff members from every institution were trained to use the specific
hardware and software that were installed in the institutions. Additions to the existing
web site for immovable cultural heritage were made and a new dynamic web site with
data about stolen cultural heritage was created.

The overall effects from this project are expected to present Macedonian cultural heritage
to the world, to draw attention to Macedonian historical sites and to attract tourists from
all over the world. The second type of benefit from this project is establishing practice in



                                               57

use of advanced techniques and equipment in registration and data gathering, data
production and manipulation and data protection. That will inevitably lead to better
protection of the cultural heritage. The third component which is equally significant is
upgrading the institutions to a respectable technological level. Everyday use of most
advanced technologies, training the employees on how to use the latest equipment and
software, producing high quality data according to world standards and the ability to
share the data with the broad and expert public brings the employees, the internal
procedures in the institutions, the Ministry of Culture and the Country as a whole on a
much higher level and presents a significant step in Macedonia's development.

2). Handicrafts Assessment and Action Plan

Within this study the scope of existing handicrafts per regions was identified, especially a
stress was given to the traditional handicrafts that were almost extinct but could have
been renewed through Community Development and Culture Project and could become
attractive for the domestic and international market in order to become means of creating
sustainable income and long term employment. A plan of trainings and marketing plan
was recommended, which was implemented by the CDCP.

3). Tourism Assessment and Action Plan

Since the Master Plan of Tourism was carried at the same time, the Tourism Assessment
and Action Plan were mainly focused for the pilot location - Berovo, Pehchevo and
Delchevo. The proposals from the Italian consultant firm for developing cultural tourism
in the pilot-location were proposed to the municipalities and local people/NGO's and was
partly implemented by them. The study also determined the current organization,
performance and needs and gave recommendation for other possible locations for
developing cultural tourism which were considered while selecting the new
municipalities where the CDCP was to be implemented.

Outcomes

The initial design of the project was to establish conditions that facilitate community-
based socio-economic development by leveraging one of the country's untapped
resources, its cultural assets, to create cluster of culture-based industries (notably
handicrafts and community-based tourism) in areas adjacent to cultural heritage sites,
while improving the management of cultural assets, particularly at local level. Therefore
the following activities were achieved

- Improved strategic planning and technical capacity - into the initial design of the
project a creation clusters of activities based around cultural and natural heritage in order
to increase economic activity was envisaged. As a result of strategic planning and
technical capacity a number of clear cases of linkage between the activities among the
associations as well as with the Ministry of Culture projects were achieved.




                                               58

- Improved Recognition and Management of Cultural and Natural Heritage - The CDCP
influenced the municipalities to become more aware of the scope of their local heritage
and its importance for economic development, as well as the importance of promoting it.
Therefore, the creation of two new websites - http://www.virtualmacedonia.co.mk and
www.exploringmacedonia.com and the story of Macedonia at
http://adventures.yahoo.com/b/adventures/adventures9173 is an indication that the
interest in the countries cultural and natural assets is growing.

- Support for Decentralization ­ The CDCP has introduced several important elements to
municipalities in the context of decentralization: through the Social Needs Assessment
and Action Plan it encouraged them to define their cultural and natural heritage and
develop local strategies; through the establishment of local working groups it encouraged
local decision making and accountability; through the Association Grants it gave the
municipalities opportunity to work with local NGO's and vice versa; through hiring
regional coordinators the municipalities have an extra resource to help with locating
funding possibilities and preparing applications

The CDCP conducted questionnaires with the NGOs that were implementing sub-projects
and the municipal authorities in the 17 municipalities were CDCP conducted the sub-
projects. The questionnaires were about the conducting of the projects by the CDCP. As
the questionnaires showed, there is a widely spread support for continuance of the CDCP
project among both NGOs and municipal authorities. Though there are differences in
opinions about the directions in which CDCP should proceed, the effect of the CDCP in
the implementing municipalities was marked hugely positive.

Borrower's performance

The CDCP was implemented both at national and local level therefore different actors
were responsible for the implementation of the project: the Government of Republic of
Macedonia, Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Finance, PCU, National Steering
Committee, national institutions for protection of cultural heritage, municipalities, local
working groups, local NGO's, construction firms etc. It can be concluded that most of
them were dedicated in implementing the activities that they were responsible for. Even
though at the beginning of the project certain problems occurred with the slow
implementation/disbursement, the PCU managed in relatively short time to speed the
whole process of implementation, to finish the project on time and to have sustainable
projects. Namely, it was concluded that after the "learning" period when the
municipalities that did not have any previous experience with foreign investments gain
some knowledge for implementing projects financed by international donors, the project
had a "snow ball effect" and successful projects were implemented in a short period of
time. The regional coordinators were trained and they helped the municipalities and
NGO's apply, implement and monitor the activities. After finishing the project almost all
of them are employed by the municipalities as key persons responsible for fundraising,
cooperation with foreign donors, cooperation with NGO's, etc.




                                              59

The National Steering Committee played an important positive role, however at the
beginning of the project all members were checking the selections of the Local Working
Groups that resulted with slow implementation. However the project was a LIL therefore
this was a good learning process for both national and local level. Namely the
municipalities found out that they should became responsible for their decision making
while the NSC became aware that the local authorities are gaining the experience needed
for the process of decentralization.

On the local level, a cooperation between most of the municipalities and NGO's existed
through support of the activities of the NGO's through covering the VAT, the expenses
for the premises of the NGO's, documentation, supervision of conservation works.

During the implementation of the project the PCU experienced difficulties due to the
fluctuating exchange rates of all currencies involved. The credit agreement was signed in
SDR currency and the transferred fund to the PCU account were in US$ calculated by the
exchange rate of the US$ against the SDR at the day of the transfer. Apparently, the
exchange rate on the day of the transfer was much different that the rate on the day the
agreement was signed which caused discrepancies with the annual financial plans and
obligations taken by the PCU. Another cause for financial disparities was the fluctuating
exchange rate of the US$ against the Macedonian Denar. PCU was signing almost all of
the contracts in US$ and some in Euro, but the payments were made in Macedonian
Denars calculated on the day of the invoice.

One other issue is the time interval between the funds request made by the PCU and the
actual transfer of funds to the PCU account. The lengthy procedure caused pile-up of
obligations (invoices) that sometimes have to wait for a longer period of time to be paid.
This inflicted project implementation problems and affected the relationships with the
implementing partners. It also affected the financial discrepancies because the invoices
waiting to be paid were in Denars calculated on the day of the invoice.

In order to cover all the undertaken activities, and having in mind that due to the
exchanging rate less funds from the IDA and Dutch Grant were available, it was decided
that the difference will be covered by the Governmental Contribution. This created at the
end of the project the categories not to be financed according to the Credit Agreement.

Bank's and Dutch Embassy performance

The Bank and the Dutch Embassy provided substantial support to the PCU. The regular
supervision missions resulted in improvement in the operations of the PCU. The PCU
have been supported by the Bank with the appropriate documents, explanations and
expert help. Certain delays in the disbursement of the funds occurred especially at the
end of the project.




                                              60

   ANNEX 8. COMMENTS OF COFINANCIERS AND OTHER PARTNERS/STAKEHOLDERS


Comments by the Cofinanciers: the Government of the Netherlands

The Netherlands Government pledged a grant of USD 990.000 to the Community
Development and Culture Project, under a common TF with Community Development
Project and Children and Youth Project. This construction has shown to have presented a
bureaucratic obstacle rather than an easier financing tool (which the Netherlands
Embassy in Skopje originally anticipated) and is a lesson learnt, as mentioned in
Embassy's earlier comments to Community Development Project ICR.

While in general the project managed to catch up in its later stages and compensate for
the slow start, and produce significant output, the Embassy would nevertheless point out
the following issues:

1. There was a general lack of proactive approach towards the Embassy as a co financier
both on the side of WB management and PCU. Information had to be asked and
reminders for reports sent by the Embassy (although it was always provided upon
request). Another example is the fact that it was the Embassy rather than WB
management that identified the need for project period extension and urged that it is
timely handled. Moreover, the Embassy did the overall calculations and sent reminders
to WB to effectuate calls for funds.

2. Efficiency of project management could have been better. While lessons learnt were
taken into consideration in the course of the project, WB needed some time to implement
them. For example, the whole mechanism of the National Steering Committee was used
to approve grants as low as USD 1,000 at the start of the program; PCU valuable human
resources and time were spent to review community grants as low as USD 500; little or
no interaction/cohesion existed among Community Development Programs of the WB
itself, etc. It has to be stressed, though, that the overall efficiency of the project greatly
improved with the appointment of the new Operations Officer, Mr. Bekim Ymeri in
September 2004.

3. Insufficient (quality of) communication between WN Washington office and the PCU
in Skopje. The Embassy found itself in situations to explain to the PCU mechanisms and
principles of spending grant money, provide timely information to the PCU on grant
transfers and remind them to send withdrawal requests to WB office. The Embassy
strongly advises WB to take this aspects more into consideration for any future projects ­
PCUs require more substantial support and more timely information on the side of WB
on daily basis during the life-time of any project to be able to manage it in a more
competent way.

4. The subsequent aide memoires of WB were at times contradictory to each other, or at
least not following up on previously mentioned issues. For example, during its 29.09-
03.10.2003 visit, WB mission was favourably impressed by the new CDD specialists and
the overall quality of the expanded staff of the PCU. However, just months later, the


                                                61

PCU Director did not renew their contracts because "they were considered to lack
adequate motivation and initiative". The latter quotation if from the aide memoire on the
visit of 23-29.03.2004. However, the Task Team Leader's role/comments with respect to
this obvious twist is unclear.

5. Project implementation set-backs. While the PCU provided regular narrative reports,
they were mostly quantitative and with little analysis/explanation on some issues that
reflected on the overall project implementation, such as: unclear division (in terms of
contents) between Minister of Culture grants and some Association Grants; lack of
capacity within borrower's institutions and proposals/actions on dealing with it (as in the
case with ownership problems and unclear legal arrangements between government
institutions and individuals); at one point PCU stated that 7 out of 30 approved
Association Grants were not active ­ this was a significant ¼ of the total grants approved,
but no explanation for the reasons for this situation was given.

While in general the project managed to cover a significant part of the territory of
Macedonia, and its results are visible in terms of improved infrastructure and stimuli for
further activities in the area of culture/tourism, some issues related to sustainability
remain open. These are: How is the catchy concept of Integrated Site Development
which is so frequently mentioned in the paper work actually functioning in practice?
What are (if any) medium and longer-term effects of the association grants? Is the
borrower following up on the activities/results of the Community Development and
Culture program?

Comments by Aid to Artisans (ATA) / Macedonia Aid to Artisans (MATA)
Outreach/Partnership

Aid to Artisans developed support for the MADE in Macedonia project by pursuing
outreach opportunities and leveraging partnerships with Macedonian government
institutions, nonprofits, international initiatives and USAID and other projects.

Last two years of the project (2004 ­ 2005) ATA partnered extensively with Community
Development and Culture Project in several ways:

    · Training and capacity building; (Some of the topics: How to develop successful
        product collection, Pricing and costing, Preparation and participation on craft
        fair);
    · Product development (direct or distant design with local and international
        designers);
    · ATA and PCU were partners in organizing several local craft bazaar (Spring and
        Christmas Bazaar);
    · ATA Retail outlets were used as a "arena" for selling and promoting craft product
        from project beneficiaries.




                                                62

Made in Macedonia project "spin off" MATA (Macedonian Artisan Trade Association)
also built alliances with Community Development and Culture Project and in spring 2006
they organized the Spring Craft Bazaar in Skopje.




                                           63

                      ANNEX 9. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS


Project Appraisal Document
Project Implementation Plan
Aide Mémoires, Back-to-Office Reports and Project Status Reports
Mid-Term Review
PCU Annual Reports
Financial Management Report
Tourism Assessment (F&M)




                                            64

