Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7480-LE 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Reform Implementation Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
LEBANESE REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 7, 2007 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7480 -LE 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated September 7, 2007, entered into between LEBANESE 
REPUBLIC (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of 
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I (A) of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-
economic policy framework.  The Borrower has decided that the net proceeds from the 
Loan will be utilized in accordance with the relevant provisions of Law No. 476, dated 
December 12, 2002, and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette No. 67, dated 
December 14, 2002.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million United States 
dollars (US$100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 
of this Agreement
 (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time. 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
 
2.09 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information 
relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, 
reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to 
the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after 
the date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Riad El Solh Square 
Beirut, Lebanese Republic 
 
Facsimile: 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
961 1 642 756 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Beirut, Lebanese Republic, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
LEBANESE REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ Jihad Azour 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Daniela Gressani 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the
Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Borrower under 
the Program include the following: 
 
1. 
the inter-ministerial committee, chaired by the Prime Minister and responsible 
for overseeing the reform of the Borrower’s power sector has been established by 
a
decision of the Borrower’s Prime Minister dated May 21, 2007; 
 
2. 
each contract for, respectively, (i) enhancing the capacity of the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Energy and Water to manage the reform of the power sector, (ii) 
preparing the transformation of the legal status and the restructuring of EdL, and 
(iii) advising EdL on actions to be taken in order to improve its technical and 
financial performance, has been awarded; 
 
3. 
the 2001 audit of EdL accounts has been completed, and auditors to conduct 
audits of EdL accounts for the years 2002 to 2006 have been appointed; 
 
4. 
consultants have been employed to advise on installation of meters and awarding 
of distribution service contracts to the private sector; 
 
5. 
consultants have been employed to prepare a master plan for the Borrower’s 
electricity sector; 
 
6. 
the memorandum of understanding between the Borrower and a gas supplier to 
trigger the process of importing natural gas into the Borrower’s territory has been 
signed; 
 
7. 
an advisor to launch the implementation of a modern internal audit function 
within the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance has been appointed; 
 
8. 
the action plan aiming at strengthening the Borrower’s public finance 
management system and monitoring capacity has been made available to the 
public by the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
 
9. 
the telecommunication regulatory authority has been established and the 
members of its board have been appointed; 
 
10. 
the inter-ministerial committee for social policy, has been established by a 
decision of the Borrower’s Prime Minister dated January 22, 2007; and 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
11. 
technical discussions on the draft law reforming the end-of-service indemnity and 
introducing the new fully-funded defined-contributions pension system have 
been completed by a specialized parliamentary committee. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall be withdrawn in a single tranche.  
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan 
(Expressed in United States 
dollars) 
Single Tranche 
 
100,000,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
100,000,000 
C. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree: 
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this
 account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 
 
F. 
Audit.  Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
1. 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank; 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
2. 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and  
 
3. 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account and 
their audit as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
G. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is January 31, 2009. 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each April 15 and October 15 
Beginning October 15, 2012  
through April 15, 2022 
 
5% 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
Page  11
-
10
-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  
Definitions
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718 718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
2. 
“EdL” means 
Electricité
du
Liban
,
a
public authority established and operating 
pursuant to Decree No. 16878 of the Borrower, dated July 10, 1964, amended by 
Decree No. 4517 of the Borrower, dated December 13, 1972, and as the same 
may be amended from time to time. 
 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
4. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated July 6, 2007 from the Borrower to the Bank 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
5. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 
2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
Page  13
-
12
-
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan 
Agreement in support of which the Loan is made.”  All 
references to “Project” throughout these General Conditions are 
deemed to be references to “Program”. 
Page  15
-
14
-
wb77754 
M:\LEGMN\LEBANON\Energy DPL\DPL(SIGNING)revised FEF.doc 
08/17/2007 4:07:00 PM
 
