Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3009 
Operation Name 
LB-ENERGY SECTOR DPL 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
General energy sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P094288 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF LEBANON 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
March 27, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
May 18, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 28, 2007 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
At the identification stage the following development issues have been identified: 
 
Lebanon’s economic and social challenges are tremendous.  Since the mid 1990s, public debt levels have risen 
steadily to account for over 170% of GDP in 2005.  Concurrently, the competitiveness of its enterprises has 
dwindled and lack of employment opportunities have led to substantial poverty and emigration.   
 
The energy sector itself suffers from years of overall poor governance, weak management and administration of 
the sector agencies, high inefficiencies in the power infrastructure ranging from power plants to the transmission 
and distribution networks and reliance on costly imported fuel for power generation
1
despite long-standing plans 
to introduce natural gas.  The result is poor quality of energy services, very low consumer confidence in the 
electric utility, inadequate cost-recovery and considerable dependence on budgetary subsidies.   
 
The legacy of conflict and sectarian politics, weak public institutions, lack of planning, poor governance and 
several unimplemented reform programs, along with frequent changes in government are the major causes behind 
Lebanon’s state of affairs today. 
 
Indeed, implementation of major reforms, including restructuring and privatization of state owned enterprises, 
have been attempted several times but each time the efforts have become paralyzed at key junctions.  Today, the 
state owned enterprises are providing very poor service and their cost to the Government is extremely high in the 
form of capital and operating subsidies.  In 2006, subsidy transfers to the electricity sector alone accounted for 
over 20% of government revenues. 
 
The Government is well aware of the need to turn the sector around.  In 2002, an Electricity Law (Law 462) was 
passed which lays out the restructuring intentions for Electricité du Liban (EdL).  The Law calls for: the creation 
of a regulatory authority; the unbundling of all or part of the sector; the incorporation under commercial law of 
the new entities; and ultimately the privatization of up to 40% of the shares.  It is challenging but all the more 
urgent to implement the Law successfully in Lebanon today and under the growing subsidy requirements.   
 
The summer of 2006 hostilities resulted in serious human and physical losses and caused substantial damage to 
the Lebanese economy.  An Economic and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) was carried out by the World Bank 
estimates the direct damage from the hostilities at US$2.4 billion, with indirect damages accounting for another 
1
Power is produced using imported heavy fuel oil and light fuel oil, with the latter costing almost twice the price per ton of 
heavy fuel oil.  The light fuel oil is used in 50% of the power plants which are designed to operate on natural gas. 
Page  2
US$700-US$800 million in losses.  The damage from the hostilities also 
put
to a halt Lebanon’s growth 
projections for 2006 and the economy contracted.   
 
A
Donor Conference was held in Paris on January 25, 2007 (Paris III), where the Government of Lebanon 
presented an overall reform, reconstruction and recovery program and donors pledged more than US$7.6 billion 
in support of the program.  Reform of the energy sector (electricity in particular) is seen as a prerequisite to 
achieving fiscal adjustment and debt sustainability through control of expenditure and among donors and the 
World Bank has been requested to take the lead in the energy sector dialogue and the reform effort.   
 
The ESIA chapter on electricity supports the Government’s reform program in the sector and provides 
recommendations in the short- and medium-term.  The key strategic points are (i) major efforts are needed to 
improve governance; (ii) the commercial operation of EdL’s needs can best be addressed through its incorporation 
in order to remove the obstacles that accompanies it being under the civil service code; and (iii) the significant 
investment needs of the sector can only be economic and efficient if there is better management and skills at EdL 
and there is proper sector strategy and planning.   
 
The Bank involvement under a policy lending approach would contribute - through budget support – to mobilize 
the key stakeholders around the critical reforms and therefore facilitate for the Government of Lebanon to 
implement its recovery and ambitious reform program for the energy sector. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed DPL’s primary objectives are to support concrete government actions aimed at improving the 
energy’s sector governance and performance, through improved accountability and efficiency, restructuring, 
reduced electricity production costs, and, ultimately, to reduce government subsidy requirements over time. 
 
The proposed DPL would also benefit –over time- the population at large who would be able to reduce their 
reliance on more expensive back-up generation as well as positive investment and employment impact from more 
reliable electricity supply. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The proposed operation, which builds on the recent sector reforms, the Government’s reform program as 
presented to Paris III, and takes into consideration the current political context in Lebanon, focuses on the 
necessary governance steps required to restructure and reform the sector and accelerate cost reduction measures. 
A
second operation is being planned, should the overall macro and fiscal be adequate. The second operation 
would see the restructuring process through to completion and enchance private sector participation in the sector. 
 
More specifically, the proposed DPL operation will support government reform actions which are concentrated 
under two development priority areas: 
 
1) 
Sector governance and restructuring measures 
 
ƒ
Change of the legal status of EdL, 
under the leadership of an Inter-ministerial Power Sector Reform 
Committee chaired by the Prime Minister.  Entities resulting from the restructuring of EdL would become 
commercial corporations; 
ƒ
Audits of 2001-2006 accounts;
 
·
Appointment of two full-time EDL Board members
;
·
Award of contract to supervise the O&M contract for the Bedawi and Zahrani power plants
;
2) Cost 
reduction 
measures 
 
Page  3
·
Award of contract for a comprehensive Sector Master Plan
,
to determine the  least cost expansion plans in 
t
erms of new investment, as well as the feasibility of extending the life of existing power plant assets;  
·
Negotiations for the introduction of natural gas (piped or LNG).
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The possible environmental or social implications of this operation are currently under review. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
100 
 Total 
100 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Anna Maria Bjerde 
Title: Lead Energy Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-3541 
Fax:  
Email: Abjerde@worldbank.org
 
