                                     Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                           Report No: ICR00001237



               IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (Loan/Credit No IBRD74800)

                                        ON A

                                       LOAN

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 100 MILLION

                                         TO

                           THE GOVERNMENT OF LEBANON

                                       FOR AN

                REFORM IMPLEMENTATION DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN




                                   October 23, 2009




Sustainable Development Department (MNSSD)
Middle East and North Africa Region (MNA)
                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
            (Exchange Rate Effective as of July 31, 2009)
                 Currency Unit = Lebanese Pound


                Currency Unit          Lebanese Pounds
                  US$1.00                 1,507 LL


                         FISCAL YEAR
                    [January 1 ­ December 31]

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA   Country Financial Accountability Assessment
EdL    Electricité du Liban
EPCA   Emergency Post Conflict Arrangement
GDP    Gross Domestic Product
GNP    Gross National Product
HCP    Higher Council for Privatization
HIPC   Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA    International Development Association
IFC    International Finance Corporation
IMF    International Monetary Fund
JSAN   Joint Staff Advisory Note
LDP    Letter of Development Policy
MDGs   Millennium Development Goals
MOEW   Ministry of Energy and Water
MOF    Ministry of Finance
MTEF   Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
PER    Public Expenditure Review
ROSC   Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes
SDR    Special Drawing Rights
UNDP   United Nations Development Program


          Vice President:     Shamshad Akhtar
        Country Director:     Hedi Larbi
          Sector Director:    Lazlo Lovei
         Sector Manager:      Jonathan D. Walters
       Task Team Leader:      Husam Beides
                                    LEBANON


             REFORM IMPLEMENTATION DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN



                                   CONTENTS


                                                                          Page No.
A. Basic Information                                                          I
B. Key Data                                                                   i
C. Ratings Summary                                                            i
D. Sector and Theme Codes                                                    ii
E. Bank Staff                                                                ii
F. Result Framework Analysis                                                 iii
G. Rating of Program Performance in ISR                                       v
H. Restructuring                                                              v
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design                         1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes                          5
3. Assessment of Outcomes                                                   11
4.Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                                 15
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance                              15
6. Lessons Learned                                                          17
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners     18
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes      19
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results                                         21
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results                            22
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR             23
Annex 5 Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders            26
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents                                       27
Annex 7. RDPL Matrix with Comments                                          28
Annex 8. Map                                                                36
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Reform Implementation
Country:                Lebanon                 Program Name:             Development Policy
                                                                          Loan (RIDPL)
Program ID:             P094288                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-74800
ICR Date:               10/23/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                          LEBANON
Original Total
                        USD 100.0M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 100.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 100.0M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/11/2007     Effectiveness:          09/25/2007          09/25/2007
Appraisal:            07/02/2007     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             08/02/2007     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                01/31/2009          01/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    High
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                  Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:                   Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision:     Satisfactory                                      Unsatisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                               Unsatisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                  Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                             None
                                                  (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                           Quality of
                        No                                                None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                    18                  18
Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance                         5                   5
Other social services                                                13                  13
Power                                                                55                  55
Telecommunications                                                    9                   9


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development               14                  14
Other public sector governance                                       29                  29
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                     29                  29
procurement
Regulation and competition policy                                    14                  14
Social safety nets                                                   14                  14

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Shamshad Akhtar                     Daniela Gressani
Country Director:          Hedi Larbi                          Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager:            Jonathan D. Walters                 Jonathan D. Walters
Program Team Leader:       Husam Mohamed Beides                Anna M. Bjerde
ICR Team Leader:           Husam Mohamed Beides
ICR Primary Author:        Husam Mohamed Beides




                                                 ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
 The program development objective is to advance the implementation of critical reforms
of the Government of Lebanon's economic reform program, with a particular emphasis on
energy, business environment and social services which in turn will lead to reduced need
for subsidies and an improved investment and employment environment.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)
N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target     Formally         Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target         Completion or
                                                documents)         Values         Target Years
                   Correcting the large macro and fiscal imbalances, including additional negative
Indicator 1 :
                   macro and fiscal impacts of the 2006 hostilities.
                                            Recovery in
Value
                   Debt to GDP ratio of economic growth                        2008 Debt to GDP
(quantitative or
                   178%.                    and decline in                     ratio of 162%
Qualitative)
                                            fiscal imbalances
Date achieved      12/29/2006               01/31/2009                         06/30/2009
                   Economic improvement was faster than expected. However improvement
Comments
                   cannot be attributed to improvement in the electricity sector as cost recovery
(incl. %
                   measures were not implemented nor to the telecommunications sector as sale
achievement)
                   of mobile assets was not achieved


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                                Values (from                         Achieved at
    Indicator           Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                   approval                        Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                 documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :      EdL restructured to improve efficiency and service reliability.
                   EdL is a public
Value              enterprise with several Decrees passed for
(quantitative or   administrative,          EdL's                                Not Achieved
Qualitative)       operational and          incorporation.
                   commercial problems.
Date achieved      09/06/2007               01/31/2009                           06/30/2009
Comments           Agreement between different energy stakeholders on corporatization and
(incl. %           restructuring of EdL is still lacking and therefore a plan for EdL#s
achievement)       incorporation and restructuring was not approved.
Indicator 2 :      Reduction in the cost of power produced at the Beddawi power plant due to


                                                iii
                   fuel switching from gas-oil to natural gas.
                   Beddawi currently runs
                   on imported gas-oil, but
Value                                       Natural gas
                   a gas import contract
(quantitative or                            available as of                   Not Achieved
                   was signed with Egypt
Qualitative)                                mid-2008.
                   in April 2007 with a
                   start date in mid 2008.
Date achieved      09/06/2007               07/15/2008                        06/30/2009
                   Not achieved by target date as discussions with Egypt continued but natural
Comments
                   gas had not been delivered. After preparing the ICR, partial delivery of gas
(incl. %
                   started and Baddawi power plant started operations by gas enough only for one
achievement)
                   Turbine
                   Information availability to make investment decisions necessary to improve
Indicator 3 :
                   quality and cost of supply.
                                            Presentation of the
                                            conclusions of the
                                            Master Plan to the
                   A Master Plan is not     Council of
                   available to identify    Minister for
Value              priority investments     endorsement of
(quantitative or   needed in the power      strategic options.                Not Achieved
Qualitative)       sector. A contract has
                   been signed with EDF Adoption of sector
                   to prepare it.           investment plan by
                                            the Council of
                                            Ministers

Date achieved      09/06/2007               01/31/2009                           06/30/2009
                   An international consultant has prepared a draft Master Generation Plan.
Comments
                   However, the plan was not completed nor integrated with a transmission
(incl. %
                   master plan into a final Master Plan for development and financing of sector
achievement)
                   priority investment projects.
Indicator 4 :      Improved telecommunications services to support improved business climate.
                                            Telecom
                                            regulatory
                                            functions have
                   Costly information
Value                                       been transferred
                   services due to limited
(quantitative or                            and the regulatory                   Partially Achieved
                   competition and
Qualitative)                                authority is
                   regulatory oversight.
                                            carrying out
                                            regulatory
                                            functions.
Date achieved      09/06/2007               01/31/2009                           06/30/2009
                   TRA# s Board was appointed. However, one of the Board members resigned
Comments
                   and was not replaced, causing occasionally a 2-2 deadlock in the Board#s
(incl. %
                   decision making. In addition, the transfer of all regulatory powers to TRA has
achievement)
                   not been fully completed
                   Fully funded defined contribution pension scheme to support the business
Indicator 5 :
                   climate as well as deliver essential social services.



                                                 iv
                   The pension system for
Value
                   private workers is       Law approved by
(quantitative or                                                               Not Achieved
                   limited to an End-of     Parliament.
Qualitative)
                   Service Indemnity.
Date achieved      09/06/2007               01/31/2009                         06/30/2009
Comments           The Joint Parliamentary Committee discussed, revised and approved the draft
(incl. %           law replacing the end of service indemnity scheme with FF-DC pension
achievement)       system. Draft Law still with Parliament for discussion at unknown date.



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                             DO                         IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     09/07/2007           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     01/23/2009          Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                 100.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               v
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design (this section is descriptive, taken
from other documents, e.g., Program Document/ISR, not evaluative):

1.1   Context at Appraisal (brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector
background, rationale for Bank assistance):

Country macroeconomic, sector background and Program Context

In recent years and by the time this Reform Implementation Development Policy Loan (RIDPL)
was approved, Lebanon's economy had been substantially affected by external events. Between
2001 and 2004, the average growth rate reached 4%. The year 2006 was shaping up to produce
the highest growth rate in a decade due in part to the regional economic boom stoked by the rise
in the price of oil. The July-August 2006 Israeli war eliminated the good fiscal outcome of the
first six months of 2006. The primary fiscal balance (excluding grants) reverted to a deficit of
1.3 percent of GDP and the overall deficit widened to 14.6 percent of GDP. The overall fiscal
deterioration in 2006 reflects the combined effects of an increase in interest payments and
primary expenditures and a decline in revenues.

After cessation of the hostilities, the Government of Lebanon was quick to finalize its medium-
term structural reform plans. An international donor conference to discuss this program was held
on January 25, 2007 in Paris (Paris III) and the program received the endorsement of the
international donor community, which pledged US$7.6 billion in support over the medium-term.

Key pillars of the program were: (i) fiscal adjustment to reverse Lebanon's unfavorable debt
dynamics and reduce the debt-to-GDP ratio through rationalization of expenditures,
enhancement of revenues, and improved efficiency, including notably energy sector reform; (ii)
growth enhancing structural reforms to strengthen the business environment and the
competitiveness of Lebanon's businesses; and (iii) social sector reform to strengthen social
safety nets and social insurance systems (pensions, health insurance).

At the Paris III Conference, the World Bank pledged its assistance to Lebanon based on
satisfactory implementation of key reforms under the Government's program. Towards this end,
an Interim Strategy Note (ISN) was prepared because the underlying context had changed
dramatically since the last Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which was discussed by the Board
on December 15, 2005. The ISN was anchored in the Government's medium-term reform
program presented at Paris III and was also embedded in a forward looking strategy around the
same three pillars that characterized the last full CAS1. The ISN set out a transitional framework
of technical and financial assistance to contribute to the Government's efforts to establish reform
momentum. It envisaged advancing a medium-term public expenditure and social reform
agenda, with a particular focus on energy, social protection, and telecommunications sector
reforms.

1
  The latest CAS was approved by the Board of Directors on December 15 2005, covering the 2006-2009 period.
The CAS focused on three pillars: (i) governance for economic management and growth support; (ii) the
development of human capital and the mitigation of the poverty effects of transition; and (iii) resource and
environmental management. An Interim Strategy has become necessary because of the hostilities in the summer of
2006.



                                                  1
In this context, the structural reforms envisaged for the energy sector were critical for both
improved fiscal/debt sustainability and growth prospects in the medium-to-long term. The
energy sector reforms supported by the Government of Lebanon and presented in the Paris III
program centered on restructuring and corporatization of EdL as envisaged by the Electricity
Law 462. That Law was passed in 2002 laying out the restructuring intentions of the power
sector. It calls for the creation of a regulatory authority; the unbundling of all or part of the
sector; and the incorporation under commercial law of the new entities. At RIDPL appraisal, a
consensus among government ministries was about to emerge on specific restructuring models of
the electricity sector.

In addition, energy sector reforms envisaged by the Paris III program called for undertaking high
priority investments to improve services and reduce costs (including through conversion of the
generation system from oil to natural gas, upgrading and rehabilitation of the transmission and
distribution network, and reducing non-payment of bills). The power sector subsidy
requirements reached US$758 million in 2006, or about 20% of annual Government revenues
and about 3.3% of GDP. The envisaged reduction in the subsidy would have reduced the
sector's drain on government resources, by reducing the deficit of the sector to 1.5% of GDP by
2012 (from 3.3% in 2006).

The social protection reforms under Paris III were expected to benefit the poor and vulnerable in
Lebanon and contribute to fiscal improvement in the medium term. These reforms were
comprehensive, ranging from expanding social insurance (pensions and health insurance) by
reforming the National Social Security Fund (NSSF) to strengthening the reach of social safety
nets and public health services. At the center of the social safety net reform was the creation of a
targeting mechanism for social assistance which would strengthen the poverty and vulnerability
focus of the social safety net programs. Both some of the poor and the middle class would also
benefit from the social insurance reforms through the introduction of a pension system and more
efficient and effective health insurance. The NSSF reforms were also envisaged to gradually
eliminate Government's implicit liabilities (e.g. from 83 percent of GDP at appraisal to an
estimated 52 percent of GDP expected by 2015).

As part of the Government's effort to modernize the business climate, the Government's reform
program also envisaged a regulatory system that would provides competitive incentives to
develop a new information technology-based industry as well as telecommunications
privatization. In this regard, the RIDPL supported the creation of the Telecommunications
Regulatory Authority (RTA).

Many of the reforms supported by the RIDPL (including telecommunications regulation and
privatization and energy sector reform) were designed to raise business confidence, help
stimulate growth and reduce interest rate spreads, thereby helping offset the negative short term
impact of fiscal adjustment on aggregate demand.

Against this background of an ambitious reform agenda envisaged by Paris III, the political
situation in Lebanon continued to be tense as of mid 2007 and subsequently. This has been a
major cause of lack of consensus to support advancing the reform agenda, especially in the
electricity sector. The opposition block was calling for greater representation in the Government
and the Speaker of the House declined to convene the Parliament. Six Cabinet Ministers

                                             2
resigned in November 2006 and the demonstrations by the opposition in front of Government
headquarters paralyzed parts of Beirut for months. Presidential elections due in the fall of 2008
were not held until May 2008. A new interim government was formed in May 2008 with its
main mandate to prepare new parliamentary elections in June 2009.

Recognizing the fragile political environment during the preparation of the RIDPL and the
overly ambitious reforms included in Paris III program, the World Bank nevertheless supported
continued involvement in Lebanon as it felt that the Bank needed to stay firmly engaged with the
process initiated at the Paris III Conference. The RIDPL was the Bank instrument selected to
support core measures under the Paris III program in areas with a relatively strong Bank
dialogue, primarily the energy sector but also including the social and telecommunication
sectors.

       Other donors programs in Lebanon

The IMF approved an Emergency Post Conflict Assistance (EPCA) program of SDR50.75
million (US$77 million) on April 9, 2007. The EPCA was disbursed against a set of fiscal and
structural policy reforms to be undertaken during 2007. These reforms aimed at protecting
financial stability and containing the budget deficit during this transition year and initiating
structural reforms. Monitorable actions under the EPCA package involved actions in the areas of
tax reforms, budgetary management improvement, telecommunications privatization, and
preparation of audits of the National Social Security Fund and the power sector. The EPCA was
considered as partial macro trigger post-Paris III for donors to provide budget support for
implementation of critical structural reforms, including those supported by the RIDPL which
were considered to complement the EPCA-supported policy actions

At the Paris III conference, IFC pledged US$250-275 million for a program of investment and
technical assistance. A series of credit lines and risk sharing facilities with local banks for
US$200 million would support small and medium enterprises in their recovery. Additionally,
IFC expanded its Trade Finance program and continues to be active in both real sector and
services sector investments.

The donor community was also generous in supporting the reconstruction and recovery of
Lebanon, pledging US$7.6 billion at the Paris III conference in January 2007. High income
countries from the Gulf Cooperation Council (United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Qatar, and Saudi
Arabia) had been particularly instrumental in supporting the social sector in the areas of
emergency relief and reconstruction. Meanwhile, AFD, USAID, EIB, and many regional donors
(AFESD, KFAED, IsDB), remained major contributors in the areas of governance, economic
reform and growth.

       1.2      Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
             approved):

The overall development objective of the RIDPL program was to support a select set of reforms
under the Government's program where (i) strong consensus exists; (ii) the Bank has deep
knowledge and has assumed a very active role; and (iii) reform is sufficiently advanced to justify
development policy lending. To this end, the RIDPL focused on the areas that were at the center
of the Government's reform program: (i) energy sector reform; (ii) modernization of the

                                            3
           business environment and of the telecommunications sector; and (iii) social protection reform.
           As such, the operation supported, as condition for Board presentation, a distinct set of reforms in
           the energy sector, business environment (telecommunications), social safety nets and social
           insurance.

                   1.3    Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
                   and reasons/justification:

                   Not revised

                   1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

           The RIDPL was the Bank's contribution to the Paris III reform program, with particular
           emphasis on the energy, social and telecommunications sectors. Original policy areas supported
           by the RIDPL included:

           Energy Sector Reform

           The RIDPL supported specific measures included in the Paris III program for energy sector
           reforms and reduction of cost of operation in the areas of ; (a) sector policy, governance and
           restructuring; (b) EdL governance; and (c) fuel cost reduction and billing and collections
           improvement. The following actions were met as conditions for Board presentation:

               ·   Establishment of an Inter-ministerial Power Sector Reform Committee (IMPSRC)
                   chaired by the Prime Minister to enhance capacity, governance and accountability for the
                   implementation of reforms.
               ·   Contracts awarded for the three advisory teams to restructure EdL including transforming
                   its legal status, enhance capacity to manage the reform process in the MOEW, and
                   support turnaround of EdL through injection of capacity and expertise in the utility.
               ·   Audit of 2001 accounts of EdL completed and auditors retained for 2002-2006 to allow
                   for availability of reliable financial information on the sector2.
               ·   Consultants employed to advice on installation of meters and awarding of distribution
                   service contracts to the private sector.
               ·   Consultant engaged for preparation of a Master Plan for the electricity sector to
                   accelerate decision-making and funding allocation to least-cost investments that would
                   improve quality and cost of supply.
               ·   Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) or equivalent signed for an import contract for
                   natural gas (piped or LNG) to diversify the fuel type used to achieve reduction in
                   electricity generation costs and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean
                   Development Mechanism.




2
    The audit of 2002-2006 is expected to be completed by January, 2008.

                                                              4
Social Sector Reform

The RIDPL supported in a broad sense reforms in the social sectors as highlighted in the Paris III
program. The specific sector areas supported by RIDPL were (a) pension reform; and (b)
governance of the social sectors. The following actions were met as conditions for Board
presentation:

     ·   Establishment of an Inter-Ministerial Committee for Social Policy (IMCSP) supported by
         a functioning Technical Secretariat.
     ·   Technical discussions on a draft law reforming the end-of-service indemnity and
         introducing the new fully-funded defined-contributions pension system completed by a
         specialized parliamentary committee.

Telecommunications Sector Reform

The RIDPL supported reform for improving telecommunications services to support improved
business climate. Specifically RIDPL supported the establishment of Telecommunications
Authority and appointment of its Board. The following action was met as condition for Board
presentation.

     ·   Creation of the Telecommunications Regulatory Authority (TRA) and appointment of its
         Board.

2.       Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

         2.1    Program Performance (supported by a table derived from a policy matrix):

Annex 7 includes the Development Policy Matrix showing the components of the Paris III
program which were supported by RIDPL. The Matrix also includes the sequential steps that
were expected to be carried out in the reform areas supported by RIDPL and the associated
outcomes for each sector. The Program performance is, therefore, evaluated in this ICR against
the detailed program components and their respective performance indicators as discussed below
and summarized in Annex 7. The focus of this ICR is the performance of progress of energy
sector reform which was the main focus of sector reform supported by RIDPL but reform
measures supported in other sectors including social and telecommunications are also discussed.

Energy Sector Reform

A.       Sector policy governance and restructuring
     ·   Contract awarded for the consulting advisory team to strengthen Ministry of Electricity
         and Water's (MOEW) policy analysis and reform execution capacity: An international
         consultant financed under the Bank supported Emergency Power Sector Capacity
         Reinforcement Project (EPSCRP) Technical Assistance Grant was appointed to provide
         support to the MOEW and was mobilized in September 2007. The main objective of the
         assignment was to provide MOEW with policy advice in key strategic areas including the
         formulation of sector cost reduction measures, fuel sourcing strategy and associated
         action plan, tariff revision, as well as to assist in the operational establishment of the

                                             5
                regulatory agency. The consultant provided analytical and assessment reports as required
                by its terms of reference, including recommendations for the establishment of the Energy
                Regulatory Agency. However, MOEW's emphasis was more on the fuel strategy and
                choice of generation technologies. The work of the consultant in that area is expected to
                be completed by end-September 2009, which will be necessary to finalize the sector
                investment Master Plan. Therefore, this consultancy assignment has provided the
                necessary analytical work to allow MOEW to implement priority reform and cost
                reduction measures.
            ·   Consultant engaged to undertake a Master Plan for the electricity sector: The objective
                of the Master Plan is to identify the priority least-cost investment needs in generation and
                transmission and to assist in the resource allocation of public funds to the sector. The
                preparation of the Master Plan was financed by AFD, and the contract was awarded to
                EdF. A draft generation master plan was prepared during 2008 but was not completed
                nor integrated with a transmission plan into a sector Master Plan. Uncertainties of
                assumptions related to future fuel options for the power sector have prohibited
                finalization of the generation Master Plan. Therefore subsequent actions requiring the
                endorsement of the Council of Minister of a sector investment master plan and associated
                financing schemes were not met. However, once the fuel strategy has been finalized, the
                consultant should be able to proceed with finalizing the sector Master Plan.
            ·   Establishment of the Inter-Ministerial Infrastructure and Privatization Committee (IMC3)
                chaired by the Prime Minister. The RIDPL supported the establishment of the IMC to
                enhance capacity, governance and accountability for the implementation of reforms. The
                IMC was established and provided support to the energy reform process during the early
                stage following the approval of the RIDPL. However, due mainly to lack of political
                agreement on restructuring and corporatization of EdL, the IMC has since not re-
                convened. The IMC therefore failed to play its lead role in deciding on sector reforms
                and EdL restructuring by building consensus between the key energy stakeholders on a
                restructuring road map.
            ·   Contract awarded for the consulting advisory team to restructure EdL. The service
                contract was awarded to an international consultant and was funded under the EPSCRP.
                The work of the consultant was supervised by the Higher Council for Privatization
                (HCP). The consultant has prepared a proposal for power sector restructuring, including
                the restructuring of EdL. However, the effectiveness in the work of the experts was
                hampered by the lack of consensus between MOWE, EdL and HCP on the restructuring
                model proposed by the consultant and therefore a final sector restructuring road map and
                implementation plan were not finalized. Subsequent measures to implement sector
                restructuring and EdL corporatization envisaged under Paris III were therefore not met.
            ·   Tender issued for new power generation capacity financed by the private sector. After
                promising initial discussions with IFC on the development of new generation projects
                using private sector financing, and despite the strong initial interest expressed by the
                Government in this, little progress has been made so far and no tender process has been
                initiated. The causes of delay are the uncertainty regarding the fuel to be used in the new
                power plant, lack of any progress in sector reform and lack of political agreement on
                private sector financing to develop new power plants.


3
  The IMC is the same as Inter-ministerial Power Sector Reform Committee (IMPSRC), however it was given different name
in the RIDPL documents. In this ICR, IMPSRC will be used to refer to that committee

                                                          6
     ·   Initiate the drafting of the Decree for the establishment of the Energy Regulatory Agency
         to be presented to the Council of Ministers for endorsement. The establishment of an
         Energy Regulatory Agency (ERA) is included in Law 462. The draft legislation
         including a decree establishing the Regulatory Agency and appointing key staff has been
         prepared by the consultant hired to support MOEW. A short list of senior staff to be
         appointed by decree has also been prepared. However, the establishment of the ERA,
         and subsequent actions related to its establishment included under the Paris III program,
         were not met as prospects of sector restructuring and development of a new power plant
         by the private sector were lacking. Therefore, the establishment of the ERA became a
         lesser priority for the Government.

B.       EdL Governance
     ·   Decision by EdL Board to reinforce the capacity of the finance department. The objective
         under the RIDPL was to reinforce the capacity of the Finance Department of EdL for
         better financial reporting and implementation of audit recommendations. After
         significant delay, EdL selected a contractor for Financial Management System (FMS)
         implementation.
     ·   Audit of 2001 accounts of EdL completed and Auditors retained for 2002-2006. The
         objective was to prepare reliable financial statements of EdL to better reflect its financial
         position. To date the 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004 audits have been completed. EdL
         reportedly plans to complete the 2005, 2006, and 2007 audits by December 2009.
     ·   Contract awarded for the consulting advisory team at EdL to support its restructuring
         and turnaround. The contract for supporting EdL's management reinforcement and
         restructuring was awarded to an international consultant. Progress was made in
         producing deliverables, however, there was a disconnect between the consultant and EdL
         on implementation of the Consultant's recommendations.
     ·   Contract awarded for the supervision of the O&M contracts for Beddawi and Zahrani
         power plants. The objective was to enable appropriate supervision of the O&M contracts
         awarded for these two power plants, which are important government assets in the sector.
         This action has been completed and the supervision contract is now in place.

C.       Fuel Cost Reduction

     ·   Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) or equivalent signed for the introduction of
         natural gas (piped or LNG). The objective was to secure an adequate supply of natural
         gas to replace gas-oil in the Beddawi and Zaharani power plants in order to reduce
         electricity production cost. This action has not been completed so far, since supply of
         natural gas through the Arab Gas Pipeline was not secured. Firm agreements have not
         been reached for gas supply from Egypt and for gas transit with Syria, although
         discussions with Egypt have been ongoing since the approval of the RIDPL. Gas
         delivery, which was planned to start in January 2009 but only for half of the quantity
         needed to operate Beddawi, has been further delayed. Therefore, the objective of cost
         reduction at the two power plants has not been met. After completing the preparation of
         the ICR and before its submission, partial delivery of gas started mid October 2009 and
         Baddawi power plant started operations using natural gas enough only for one turbine.
     ·   Consultants employed to advise on installation of meters and awarding of distribution
         service contracts to the private sector. The objective of this action was to address one of


                                               7
       the most conspicuous issues in the power sector related to the high level of un-billed
       electricity and billed but unpaid electricity. The approach adopted by GoL and supported
       by the RIDPL was to improve billing and collection through the installation of remotely
       read meters and enforcement of billing and collection discipline. A scheme was
       developed by the Government including the plan for two contracts to be awarded: (i) a
       Collection Management and Metering (CMM) contract for the supply, installation,
       operation and maintenance of automatic meters and systems as well as for the service of
       collecting payments; and (ii) the System Provider (SP) contract for the management of
       EdL regional distribution networks by private companies. The World Bank team,
       however advised for combining both projects under one contract instead of two. Five
       bids were received for the CMM project and none for the SP project. The tender
       evaluation of the CMM project has been delayed apparently indefinitely. This is due to
       disagreement between HCP and MOEW as well as due to concerns reported about quality
       and validity of some of the bids received and the effectiveness of awarding the CMM
       contract without an SP contract. Progress with this part of the program is therefore
       unsatisfactory as the billing and collection problem persists with no solution in sight.

Telecommunications Sector Reform

   ·   Telecommunications Regulatory Authority (TRA) established and Board appointed. The
       TRA has been established, in line with Law 431/2002 and certain powers have been
       formally transferred to the TRA. The TRA has a Board consisting of five members.
       Initially, a full Board was appointed, but soon afterwards one of the members resigned,
       leaving only four members of the Board. This has occasionally resulted in a partial
       paralysis of the TRA, when the Board is split 2/2 on important decisions. The Ministry
       of Telecommunications had not transferred the full regulatory powers to the RTA and has
       retained some of its regulatory control over the telecommunications sector, in particular
       regarding tariff which is a core function of the TRA. Therefore, this action was partially
       achieved.
   ·   Authorization for sale of mobile telecommunications sector's assets and relevant
       operating licenses underway. The privatization of the mobile telecommunications
       activity is managed by the HCP. The process was launched in 2008 and the
       announcements were made to stimulate the interest of potential bidders. However, due to
       political difficulties the process was interrupted in 2008 and the call for tenders was
       suspended by HCP. Meanwhile, the Ministry of Telecommunications took several
       measures aimed at reducing the cost of telecommunication services and to enhance the
       client base of the sector including awarding the management contracts for the two
       cellular phone networks for one year renewable to two private companies. While this is
       positive step, it falls well short of privatization required by Paris III program and
       therefore this action was not achieved.




                                           8
Social Sector Reform

The Bank has been providing technical assistance under the first and second Emergency Social
Protection Implementation Support Grants (ESPISP I and ESPISP II) to finance the design and
implementation of reforms in the two major social sector areas supported by the RIDPL.

Social Safety Nets

      ·   Establishment of the Inter-Ministerial Committee for Social Policy (IMCSP) supported by
          a functioning Technical Secretariat. This action was completed satisfactorily before
          presentation of the RIDPL to the Board. At the start of the reform process, the IMCSP
          was active and met on a quarterly basis. It formalized the social reform program in a
          "Commitment Documents" signed by the Prime Minister in January 2008. However, the
          IMCSP was less engaged in the later stages and implementation of the social security
          reforms could not be advanced.
      ·   Proxy-means testing (PMT) targeting formula for safety nets adopted by the IMCSP. A
          new targeting mechanism (based on proxy-means testing method) was developed and
          successfully piloted in 3 districts in the greater Beirut area. The pilot was completed in
          April 2009. In addition, the Cabinet approved a Policy Statement in June 2009
          establishing the use of the principle of PMT targeting for its safety net programs. The
          national roll-out is under preparation (supported by the ESPISP II) and proceeding well
          to date. The impact of this would be greater equity and efficiency in the social assistance
          program in Lebanon.
      ·   Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA) develops standards and new criteria for service
          providers for the Care Program Service Provider. Standards and criteria were developed
          and approved by MOSA. However, they were not approved by the Cabinet and therefore
          not implemented.

National Social Security Fund (NSSF)

      ·   Technical discussions on a draft law reforming the end-of-service indemnity and
          introducing the new fully-funded defined-contributions pension system completed by a
          specialized parliamentary committee. The Joint Parliamentary Committee discussed,
          revised and approved the draft law replacing the end of service indemnity scheme with
          FF-DC pension system. The draft Law is still with Parliament for discussion at an
          unknown date.
      ·   Time table for electronic submission of hospital claims adopted by Cabinet: The NSSF,
          with World Bank assistance, completed the development of the hospital electronic claims
          processing system. Piloting is underway in two hospitals. However, no timetable has
          been set for large-scale introduction.
      ·   Board of the NSSF agrees to assessment of current situation by external experts and
          preparation of reforms. Reform options to restore financial sustainability of the health
          insurance branch of the NSSF were completed and submitted to the NSSF Board. No
          decision taken to date however.

2.2       Major Factors Affecting Implementation:



                                               9
The main factors which affected the implementation of the reform program supported by the
RIDPL were the political events in Lebanon following the approval of the RIDPL. This further
complicated the intertwinement of sector reforms with the realities of Lebanon's political
economy.

       Political situation

The political events in Lebanon which affected the implementation of the RIDPL were mainly
the prolonged political stand-off between the majority and the opposition prior to November
2007, the period of political uncertainty from November 2007 to May 2008, and the change in
Government after May 2008 in a context where it was clear that a new government would be
appointed after the general elections in June 2009.

Prior to November 2007, disagreements between the majority and the opposition led to the
withdrawal of six ministers from the coalition government. In this context, the remaining
members of the government and the acting ministers replacing the opposition ministers
(including the influential and pro-reform Minister of Energy and Water) were not inclined to
engage in major reforms, especially not in the energy sector which, because of political economy
realities, can only succeed when consensus agreements are reached. At the time of the
preparation of the RIDPL and Paris III it was (perhaps optimistically) expected that the political
tension would be quickly resolved and that the reform programs in energy and
telecommunications could move forward.

After the election of President Michel Suleiman a new government was formed. New Ministers
of Energy, Telecommunications, Labor and Finance were appointed in June 2008. The new
team in MOEW developed its own views regarding the restructuring of the power sector based
on its corporatization as a single entity. This view differed from the recommendations of the
HCP which proposed un-bundling of the power sector. The IMPSRC was also not active in
facilitating reaching agreements for advancing energy reform measures supported by RIDPL.

Despite these political events, in the social sector progress was made in undertaking pilot social
projects and technical assessments to support implementation of the social reform program.
However, the political situation did have a negative impact on further progress of the program as
several reform measures were developed but not approved by the cabinet, or the parliament.
Therefore, they were not implemented as discussed in section 2.1.

       Political Economy Challenges and Complexity of Sector Reform

Lebanon's political economy allocating considerable amount of subsidies and redistribution of
public sector services as well as the lack of agreement on the objectives of sector reform have
impeded progress on implementing reform measures under the Paris III program, especially in
the electricity sector. The main reasons for failure to implement reform in the electricity sector
are not technical, since the sector has benefited from a wealth of engineering and technical
assessment reports providing recommendations for sector improvement and an agenda for sector
reform. Today, seven years after the passing of Law 462, none of the sector reform measures
envisaged by the Law has been implemented. Law 462 envisions, inter alia, the unbundling of
EdL into more than one corporate entity and eventually partial privatization of EdL. However,
the daunting complexity of achieving sector reform (due mainly to the deteriorating condition of

                                           10
         the electricity sector) and the unraveling of political agreement on the final objective of these
         reforms, particularly the extent of privatization, impeded any progress in implementing Law 462.
         This affected the outcome of RIDPL in the energy sector.

         2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

         The Ministry of Finance (MOF) was the primary entity responsible for overall implementation of
         the proposed operation and for monitoring progress and coordinating actions among other
         concerned agencies (including the inter-ministerial committees). However, because of the
         political situation during 2007-2008 and budgetary concerns, the MoF could not effectively
         follow up on the implementation of the reform measures under Paris III. It was also not able to
         assume the role of champion of the reform agenda in the absence of an active role of the inter-
         ministerial committees.

         The overall status of the Government's program was monitored by the Bank team during
         supervision missions, and recommendations were made on corrective actions to ensure that the
         reforms program would stay on track. Three energy sector supervision missions to follow up on
         sector reform and to supervise the ongoing Emergency Power Sector Reform Capacity
         Reinforcement Project took place in January 2008, November 2008 (combined social and energy
         mission) and February, 2009. Similarly, the lead specialist responsible for the Bank social sector
         program in Lebanon (based in Lebanon) led several missions to supervise the Bank's social
         sector projects, including monitoring progress of sector reform. For these two sectors the
         supervision program followed the supervision plan of the Program Document.

         2.4     Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

         This RIDPL was not designed as part of a Programmatic Development Policy Lending program.
         However, the RIDPL policy matrix envisaged a sequence of reform actions that could be
         implemented over a period of three years (as shown in Annex 7) and which could be further
         supported by follow-up reform implantation development loans. During the November 2008
         mission and at the request of the Ministry of Finance, the Bank energy and social teams assessed
         implementation progress in the reform program supported by RIDPL and developed a set of
         actions necessary to advance reform and which could constitute prior actions for a follow-up
         RIDPL. However lack of agreement within the Government, particularly on a program for
         electricity sector restructuring, inhibited the preparation of the follow-up RIDPL.

         3.      Assessment of Outcomes4

         3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation (to current country and global priorities,
         and Bank assistance strategy):

         The objectives of the program were well designed to respond to significant structural issues in
         the Lebanese economy which have a significant impact on the budget deficit. Since the
         persistent budget deficit is a significant cause of macroeconomic imbalance and instability in
         Lebanon, as pointed out in the Paris III program, the focus on reducing the budget deficit was
         justified. The selection of the power sector as the main focus of the operation was justified,

4
    For programmatic DPL, sections 3 through 5 will include and justify individual ratings for each operation in a
    programmatic series.

                                                        11
since covering its deficit absorbed 20% of Government revenues and was growing at the time of
preparation of the program, as oil prices continued to increase. The privatization of the mobile
phone sector (and the establishment of the TRA to improve the business environment for the
private operator) was also justified on the basis of its contribution to improving the quality of
telecommunications services, the liberalization of the economy, and its capacity to raise
significant resources to reduce budgetary deficit. Furthermore, measures supported by RIDPL in
the social sector were necessary to ensure greater equity and efficiency in the social assistance
programs in Lebanon.

The design of the program focused on reform measures having a clear impact on advancing
sector governance reforms and financial viability, and on actions aimed at enticing the private
sector to provide management skills and financing to the power sector. These priorities were
suitably selected to achieve the maximum impact in the short term (e.g. supplying natural gas to
Badawi power plant) and to prepare for further improvements in the medium term as the sector
reform program was implemented.

Program implementation, however, rested on the decisive support of the Ministry of Finance, and
on the joint and coordinated action of the MOEW, the Ministry of Telecommunications, HCP,
and Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA) and NSSF as well as the inter-ministerial committees. It
was closely dependent upon the continued alignment of the objectives and priorities of these
institutions, as it was the case at the time of preparation of the program. As highlighted in the
Risk section of the Program Document, the cooperation between these entities was essential for
implementation of the program. However, in reality, the consensus that seemed to exist before
the Paris III program, especially on electricity sector reform, did not last. That had major
negative impact on advancing sector reform. Similarly, the political situation did not allow
further progress in implementation of social sector reforms due to lack of government or
parliament approval of several intermediate measures.

3.2    Achievement of Program Development Objectives (including brief discussion of causal linkages
between policy actions supported by the operation and outcomes):

Economic recovery was faster than expected with real growth increasing to over 7% in 2007-08.
Fiscal indicators gradually improved because of a strong revenue collection performance but the
rate of increase in expenditures remained high. Although debt increased by 11.9 % in absolute
terms, the debt to GDP ratio declined from 178% in 2007 to 162 % in 2008. The IMF's March
2008 performance review of EPCA implementation also concluded that economic performance
in 2007 was significantly better than expected and the indicative macro/fiscal targets of the
EPCA program were met with significant margins. The IMF therefore followed up with a
second EPCA program of $37.6 million approved in November 2008.

Despite the improvement in the macroeconomic performance, the Program Development
Objectives were not achieved in their most important aspects as measures to reduce the
budgetary burden of the power sector (such as the fuel conversion of Beddawi), and to reduce the
budget deficit through the sale of the mobile telecommunications activity were not implemented.
For the longer term, key measures in the power sector including the corporatization of EdL were
not implemented, and the initial steps to facilitate private sector participation (establishment of a
regulatory agency, transparency in EdL's finances, and organization of tenders for the
transparent and competitive selection of private investors) were also not implemented.

                                             12
Therefore, the achievement of the objectives of the electricity sector reform supported by the
RIDPL is rated as unsatisfactory.

In the telecommunications sector, limited progress was made to develop a regulatory framework
attractive to private sector participation. The TRA was established, but its functioning is not fully
satisfactory due to weaknesses in the mode of operation of its Board. Because of the resulting
partial transfer of responsibilities between the Ministry and the TRA, the Development Objective
of establishing the TRA and appointing its Board has not been fully met and the outcome is
moderately unsatisfactory. Despite measures taken by the Ministry of Telecommunications to
reduce cost of telecommunications services, the objective of sustained improvement in the
quality of telecommunications service as a contributor to a better business environment has not
been achieved. In particular the introduction of competition through the mobile phone
privatization process, which is an essential element for improving the quality of service, remains
yet to take place.

In the social sector several intermediate reform measures have been developed and implemented.
However, implementation of the social reform agenda could not advance beyond this due to lack
of Government Board of Directors (in the case of NSSF), or parliament approval needed for
rolling out developed and pilot reform schemes. Therefore, the achievement of the objectives of
the social sector reforms supported by the RIDPL is also moderately unsatisfactory.

3.3    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating (combining relevance, achievement of PDOs):

Rating: Unsatisfactory

Lebanon's economic recovery cannot be attributed to improvement in the electricity sector since
none of the expected cost recovery measures was initiated or implemented. Little (if any) of the
progress with the reduction of the budgetary burden of the electricity sector can be attributed to
the implementation of the RIDPL. Government subsidies to EdL will decrease in 2009
compared to 2008 due to the lower international price of fuels rather than to the implementation
of the reforms and actions that were expected to reduce EdL's cost of operation. This applies, in
particular, to the planned conversion of the Beddawi power plant to natural gas firing and the
reduction of non-technical losses through the implementation of a special metering program. The
measures expected to produce longer term improvement in EdL's financial performance and
management efficiency have not been implemented. This applies in particular to EdL's
corporatization, the establishment of a regulatory agency, and the adoption of a least cost
investment Master Plan.

3.4     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts (if any, where not previously covered or to
amplify discussion above):

(a)    Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The purpose of the program supported by the RIDPL was not only to reduce the budgetary
burden of the power sector in order to help stabilize the macro situation of Lebanon by curbing
the overall budget deficit and to boost revenues to the budget through the telecommunications
privatization. It was also to create fiscal space for allowing the Government to allocate more
resources to social programs for poverty reduction, including the development of a social safety


                                             13
net. In addition, the reform program of the RIDPL aimed at improving the management of EdL
and MOEW through the implementation of the recommendations of the international consultants
retained earlier for tariff review. The Bank's Social Impact Analysis in the Electricity and Water
Sectors prepared in 2008 showed that the present tariff structure includes a large element of
subsidization of electricity consumption by residential consumers, but that the subsidies are
poorly targeted, with only 20% of the subsidies reaching the two lowest revenue quintiles. The
revision of the tariff was not carried out and hence, the subsidies continue to contribute to the
fiscal burden of EdL and are still poorly targeted. In addition, the development and future use of
the new targeting mechanism (based on proxy-means testing method) in social safety net
programs would ensure greater equity and efficiency in social assistance program in Lebanon.

(b)     Institutional Change/Strengthening (particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term
capacity and institutional development):

Institutional changes in the power sector were one of the priorities of the RIDPL. The
institutional changes that were considered important to achieve the program's development
objectives were:
         · the formal establishment of the Inter-ministerial Power Sector Reform Committee
            (IMPSRC).
         · the corporatization of EdL.
         · the establishment of the Energy Regulatory Authority.

The establishment and operation of the IMPSRC was important to make decisions when the
various stakeholders could not work out their differences regarding the implementation of sector
reforms. It was anticipated at the time of preparation of the RIDPL that this decision-making
body would be essential to avoid blockages in the reform process. Unfortunately, the IMPSRC,
although it was formally created, did not follow up and advance the power sector reform process.
The corporatization of EdL was meant to be an important step in the implementation of the
reform program. The agreements under the RIDPL did not specify the details of the
corporatization, leaving it to the Government supported by international consultants to design a
corporatization strategy for EdL. A draft corporatization plan was developed but was not
implemented, due mainly to lack of stakeholder agreement on the final model and objectives of
EdL corporatization. The draft legislations establishing the Energy Regulatory Authority (ERA)
has been prepared however no progress is made in establishing the ERA.

In the telecommunications sector, some progress with institutional development has been
achieved through the establishment of the TRA. However, the issue of board deadlock remains
to date and the RTA still does not have full regulatory authority over the telecommunication
sector.

Similarly, in the social sectors some progress has been made in developing and testing pilot
social projects for an efficient social targeting mechanism, hospital electronic billing and new
criteria for service providers. However, delays of final approval of such programs by the
government, combined with lack of adequate and efficient capacity of institutions (MOSA,
NSFF), has prohibited the full implementation of intended social sector reforms.




                                              14
(c)    Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive and negative):

None

3.5     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops (optional for Core
ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes):

None

4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: High

None of the substantial power sector measures supported by the RIDPL have been implemented,
particularly those related to cost reduction, sector restructuring and EdL corporatization. Unless
there is an agreement and consensus among various energy sector stakeholders on the objectives
of the reform agenda and its associated implementation plan, the electricity sector will continue
to be a drain to public budget and resources, therefore, the risk to the Development Outcome of
this RIDPL will remain very high.

In the telecommunications sector, the risk to the continued operation of the TRA is moderate, as
it is expected that the issue with the board of TRA will ultimately be addressed and the fifth
board member will be appointed. However, the risk rating on the sustainability of the operational
interdependency of the TRA and privatization prospect in the telecommunications sector is high.

In the social sector the risk to successful implementation of the reform agenda will continue to be
considered high until government and parliament approve the necessary regulations and provide
full support for rolling out implementation of piloted social program and successful capacity
building of social sector institutions (MOSA, NSSF) is achieved.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance (relating to design, implementation and
outcome issues)

5.1    Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry     (i.e., performance through lending phase):

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Despite known risks, the World Bank supported continued involvement in Lebanon as it felt that
the Bank needed to stay firmly engaged with the process initiated at the Paris III conference.
The RIDPL was the Bank instrument selected to support the Paris III program. The RIDPL
attempted to take a holistic approach by supporting reform measures in more than one sector.
The policy matrix for the RIDPL clearly outlined subsequent actions that were expected to be
implemented to ensure the success of the reform programs While implementable in other
political economies, in the case of Lebanon these actions proven to be very ambitious. The Bank
underestimated the potentially negative impact of the fragile political environment on
implementation of the reforms included in the RIDPL. The Bank decided to take a calculated
risk and proceed with the RIDPL, believing that there was a window of opportunity which, in the


                                             15
end, did not materialize.     Therefore, the Bank's performance at entry is rated moderately
satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision (including M&E arrangements):

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall status of the reform programs supported by the RIDPL was monitored by the Bank
team during several supervision missions, In addition, the Bank provided parallel technical
assistance grants to support implementation of reforms programs in the energy and social sectors
and constantly followed up on progress in sector reforms through supervision missions as
described in section 2.3 and through the Bank policy dialogue in both the energy and social
sectors. Therefore, the Bank performance during supervision is rated satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance:

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The rating for overall Bank performance is based on the moderately satisfactory quality at entry
and satisfactory quality of supervision carried out by the Bank teams as described above.

5.2     Borrower Performance

NOTE: When the government and implementing agency are indistinguishable, provide rating and
justification only for Overall Borrower Performance.

       Click here if the Government and the Implementation Agency is the same or indistinguishable

(a) Government Performance:

Rating: Unsatisfactory.

Most components of the electricity sector reform supported by RIDPL and the Paris III program
have not been initiated or achieved. Principal among these are the corporatization of EdL, the
development of an investment Master Plan for the sector and implementation of cost reduction
measures. During the period envisaged for implementing these reform measures, Government
agreement on their objectives and implantation plans was lacking and this impeded the
implementation of any reform measures in the sector.

In the telecommunications sector, despite the establishment of the TRA, Government
performance in ensuring its satisfactory operation and supporting of the privatization program
envisaged by Paris III was not fully satisfactory.

In the social sector, although several intermediate reform measures have been developed and
implemented, implementation of the social reform agenda could not advance any more due to
lack of government and parliament approval needed for rolling out developed and piloted reform
schemes.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance:

                                              16
Rating: Unsatisfactory

The reform program was implemented under the overall coordination of the Ministry of Finance,
which coordinated with several ministries and institutions responsible for leading the various
aspects of the reform program. In the electricity sector, a significant amount of technical
assistance has been provided in order to develop a reform agenda and cost reduction programs.
Even recognizing the complexity of sector reform and the large amounts of investment that will
be needed to rehabilitate the power system, nevertheless, the lack of coordination and agreement
between different institutions (EdL, HCP, MOWE and IMPSRC) has also impeded advancing a
reform agenda that could have put the sector on the path to recovery.

In the social sector, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the NSFF were the implementing agencies
for the social reform measures. Their performance was relatively more satisfactory than the
performance of the [implementing agencies in the] energy sector, as several social pilot programs
have been developed and implemented. However, lack of adequate capacity in these institutions
and the impact of the political situation have also delayed full implementation of the social sector
reform program supported by RIDPL.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance:

Rating: Unsatisfactory

The overall rating of the Borrower's Performance is based mainly on failure of the government
to advance any of the sector reform programs supported by the RIDPL, especially in the
electricity sector.

6. Lessons Learned (both operation-specific and of wide general application)

The RIDPL was prepared on the basis of the apparent consensus between the parties regarding
future sector reforms to reduce the budgetary burden of the power sector. The Bank was fully
aware of the fragility of the consensus on sector reforms in a context of internal political
disagreement. However, the continued political crisis made the implementation of the reforms
supported by the RIDPL no longer a priority because urgent short term issues demanded the
Government's full attention. In addition, the fragile political situation has exacerbated
disagreements between parties on the final objective of sector reform (e.g. privatization) and
inhibited developing final plans for implementing reform actions (e.g. EdL corporatization)

A lesson learned through the implementation of the RIDPL is that the time horizon of the reform
program should match the time frame available for Government action. In this case, the window
of opportunity turned out to be quite small, and it would have been better to set more modest
targets that could have been achieved in a relatively short span of time. A Government dealing
with a crisis situation is generally neither willing nor able to focus its energy on implementation
of long-term reforms not related to the ongoing crisis.

Another lesson learned is that while objectives/outcomes like energy sector restructuring and a
strategic investment master plan sound relatively straightforward and businesslike, the options
and eventual decisions involved are likely to spur vested interests into action and stir deep

                                            17
emotions. This is an argument for a series of DPLs (or a multiple tranche DPL) that sets less
ambitious incremental targets: one to develop sector reform road map and action plans, conduct
consultations and allow a consensus to emerge and government decisions made on finalized
action plans, and subsequent DPLs (or tranches) for the actual implementation of these reform
plans once a solid consensus has final decisions have been reached.

For Lebanon; the lack of political agreement on a final objective of the electricity sector
restructuring, particularly the extent and nature of unbundling and privatization intentions of
Law 462, has impeded any progress in implementing the Law. That at the same time has
blocked the pursuit of other improvements in EdL functioning. Therefore, today the
Government of Lebanon needs to make urgent decisions for implementation of a program
necessary for commercialization of EdL, and strengthening of its management, to ensure that it
will have the autonomy, incentives and resources to address existing sector shortcomings. In the
short term, the new Government may consider enhancing the management capacity of EdL
through appointment of performance-based managers or a management contractor to work
within EdL's current structure. Over the medium term and if the new Government will not be
able to develop consensus on EdL commercialization in accordance with Law 462, then the
Government may consider amending Law 462 to allow consensus to be reached on EdL
commercialization and corporatization.

Finally, urgent investments needed for improving the reliability of deteriorating basic services to
the public, such as the electricity supply in Lebanon, should not be tied to overly ambitious
reform programs. Certain minimum level of reforms are required to support investments that are
critical in the energy sector, but these investments should not be subject to conditionality to meet
a complex reform program with high political risks but rather to a more flexible reform program
that allows room for political consensus to be built.

7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners


(a)    Borrower/Implementing Agencies:

Comments received from the Government of Lebanon on the ICR are included in Annex 4.

(b)    Cofinanciers:

None

(c)    Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society):

None




                                            18
                                               ANNEXES
                  Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes5

       (a) Task Team members
                  Name                           Title                  Unit             Responsibility/ Specialty
Lending (from Task Team in Program Document)

    Anna Bjerde                     Lead Energy Specialist          MNSSD          Task Team Leader
    Sebnem Akkaya                   Senior Country Economist        MNSPR          Macroeconomic aspects
    Haneen Sayed                    Lead Operations Officer)        MNSHE          Social Sector
    Michael Hamaide                 Operations Officer              MNSSD          Financial Analysis
    Ananda Covindassamy             Energy Consultant               MNSSD          Economic Analysis
    Colin Scott                     Lead Social Development         MNSSO          Social Safety Net
                                    Specialist
    Dahlia Lotayef                  Senior Environmental            MNSEN          Environmental aspects
                                    Specialist
    Robert Bou Jaoude               Senior Financial Management     MNAFM          Fiduciary aspects
                                    Specialist
    Diana Masri                     Financial Management            MNAFM          Fiduciary aspects
                                    Specialist
    Khalid Boukantar                Program Assistant)              MNSSD          Document preparation and
                                                                                   coordination
    Sebastien Dessus                Senior Economist                AFTP4          Peer Reviewer
    John Besant-Jones               Energy Consultant                              Peer Reviewer
    Supervision (from Task Team Members in all archived ISRs)


    Husam Beides                    Senior Energy Specialist        MNSSD          Task Team Leader since 11/03/08

    Ananda Covindassamy             Energy Consultant               MNSSD          Economic aspects

    Haneen Sayed                    Lead Operations Officer)        MNSHE          Social sector

    Sebnem Akkaya                   Lead Country Economist          MNSPR          Macroeconomic aspects

    Michael Hamaide                 Senior Energy Spec.             MNSSD          Financial analysis

    Robert Bou Jaoude               Senior Financial Management     MNAFM          Fiduciary aspects
                                    Specialist

    Mona El-Chami                   Senior Financial Management     MNAFM          Fiduciary aspects
                                    Specialist

    Simon J. Stolp                  Senior Energy Specialist        MNSEG          Electricity Sector


5
     For programmatic DPL, Annex 1 will have multiple entries, as applicable, to include relevant data on each individual
     operation in a programmatic series.

                                                               19
  (b) Staff Time and Cost (from SAP)
  (the system pulls data available for all fields)

                                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
             Stage                         No. of Staff Weeks                       US$ Thousands
                                                                        (including travel and consultant costs)
Lending
             FY08                                                       248 477.75

                         TOTAL:
Supervision/ICR
              FY09                                                      41 864.19

                         TOTAL                                          290 341.94




                                                     20
     Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

NA




                         21
     Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

NA




                                22
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                              23
24
25
         Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

[Text]




                                        26
                       Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

1.   Program Document, July 9, 2007
2.   Letter of Development Policy, May, 2007
3.   Letter to Government Declaring Effectiveness, September 2007
4.   Transaction Audit, October 2008
5.   Draft Aide Memoire for November 2008 Mission Exploring Preparation
     of a follow Up RIDPL




                                          27
      ANNEX 7
                                                     DEVELOPMENT POLICY MATRIX FOR THE RIDPL
                                                       Items in bold constitute Board conditionality for the DPL


Paris III               Area of reform                  June 2007              January 2008               January 2009             Expected result                     Status
Reform
Program
Macroeconomic           Correcting the large macro      Gradually and          Gradually and              Gradually and        Recovery in economic             · Steady progress in
Policy Framework        and fiscal-imbalances,          steadily correct the   steadily correct the       steadily correct     growth and decline in              reducing the fiscal
                        including additional            macro-economic         macro-economic             the macro-           fiscal imbalances and              imbalances and
                        negative macros and fiscal      policy framework       policy framework           economic policy      significant reduction in           improving the debt-
                        impacts of the summer           in order to restore    in order to restore        framework in         Lebanon's exposure to              to-GDP ratio were
                        2006 hostilities.               a large fiscal         a large fiscal             order to restore a   macro financial                    achieved.
                                                        primary surplus        primary surplus            large fiscal         instability.
                                                        and put the public     and put the public         primary surplus
                                                        debt-to GDP ratio      debt-to GDP ratio          and put the public
                                                        on a rapidly           on a rapidly               debt-to GDP ratio
                                                        declining path.        declining path.            on a rapidly
                                                                                                          declining path.
Fiscal Adjustment       Budget Management               Development of         MTEF                       2009 budget          Improved policy              ·      MTEF framework
and Structural                                          Medium Term            methodology and            formulated within    dialogue with budget                not yet fully
Reforms                                                 Expenditure            guidelines                 the MTEF             agencies, whereby                   integrated as a
                                                        Framework              approved; key              framework.           efficiency savings can be           strategic planning
                                                        (MTEF) is              roles and                                       identified and new                  phase of the annual
                                                        underway and the       responsibilities                                spending can be costed              budget cycle.
                                                        education sector is    identified.                                     and prioritized within the          Expected to be
                                                        identified as the      Preparation of the                              fiscal constraints.                 achieved by Q4 of
                                                        first pilot sector     first MTEF                                                                          2009
                                                        under the MTEF.        advanced.
                                                                                                                                                            ·      Bottom up
                                                                                                                                                                   contributions to the
                                                                                                                                                                   MTEF not yet
                                                                                                                                                                   effective.
Power Sector        ·   Contract awarded for                                                          ·   Capacity to          ·    Letter of award         ·      Satisfactory
Reform ­ Sector         the consulting advisory                                                           implement                 issued.                        International expert
Policy governance       team to strengthen                                                                priority reform                                          team has been
and restructuring       MOEW's policy analysis                                                            and cost reduction                                       appointed
                        and reform execution                                                              measures.
                        capacity.




                                                                                    28
·   Consultant engaged to        ·   Presentation of      ·   Financing scheme      ·   Accelerated          ·   TORs finalized.        ·   Unsatisfactory
    undertake a Master Plan          conclusions of           (public/private) of       investment                                          Experts have been
    for the electricity sector       Master Plan to the       the investment            decisions to         ·   Counterpart team           recruited but final
                                     Council of               plan endorsed by          improve quality          assigned.                  Master Plan was not
                                     Minister for             the Council of            and cost of                                         completed.
                                     endorsement of           Ministers.                supply.              ·   Inclusion of public
                                     strategic options.                                                          financing in the
                                                                                    ·   Optimization in          Budget Law for
                                 ·   Adoption of sector                                 the deployment of        2008.
                                     investment plan by                                 international
                                     the Council of                                     funding support.
                                     Ministers.
                                                                                    ·   Assurance that
                                                                                        resources for
                                                                                        implementation
                                                                                        of sector strategy
                                                                                        are identified and
                                                                                        approved.


·   Establishment of the                                                            ·   Effective capacity   ·   TOR and                ·   Unsatisfactory.
    Inter-ministerial                                                                   to formulate             membership of IMC          IMC appointed but
    Infrastructure and                                                                  strategy and             approved.                  was active during
    Privatization Committee                                                             implement                                           early stage of the
    (IMC) chaired by the                                                                reforms in place.    ·   Schedule and               RIDPL.
    Prime Minister.                                                                                              protocol of meetings
                                                                                                                 approved.


·   Contract awarded for                                                            ·   Restructuring of     ·   Letter of award        ·   Satisfactory
    the consulting advisory                                                             EdL initiated.           issued.                    Consultant selected
    team to restructure EdL.                                                                                                                and working

                                 ·   Tender issued for    ·   Outcome of tender     ·   Ability to meet      ·   Selection of           ·   Unsatisfactory
                                     new power                validated by the          future demand.           Advisor.                   tender was not
                                     generation               Council of                                                                    prepared or issued.
                                     capacity financed        Ministers.                                     ·   Preparation of
                                     by the private                                                              tender documents.
                                     sector.




                                                                   29
               ·   Initiate the drafting of the   ·   Preparation of                                   ·   The Agency is       ·   Finalization of the   ·   Unsatisfactory
                   Decree for the                     operational manual                                   operational and         Decree.                   The Agency was not
                   establishment of the               for the Agency to                                    provides                                          established
                   Regulatory Agency to be            be approved by                                       predictability in
                   presented to Council of            MOEW.                                                decision as
                   Ministers for                                                                           needed for sector
                   endorsement.                                                                            restructuring and
                                                                                                           private sector
                                                                                                           participation.

                                                  ·   Key staff            ·   Allocation of           ·   Continuity in       ·   Formulation of        ·   Unsatisfactory
                                                      appointed to the         suitable financial          sector regulation       procedures for            Agency tasff was
                                                      Regulatory               and human                   and planning.           appointment.              not appointed
                                                      Agency                   resources to the
                                                                               Agency for              ·   Facilitate          ·   Earmarking of
                                                                               Presentation of             restructuring,          financial resources
                                                                               business plan for           IPPs and                for the regulator.
                                                                               the Agency to the           privatization.
                                                                               MOEW 2009.

                                                                           ·   Approbation and
                                                                               funding of training
                                                                               program for the
                                                                               staff of the Agency
                                                                               and
                                                                               implementation of
                                                                               the first year of the
                                                                               program.

Power Sector   ·   Decision by EdL Board to       ·   Implementation of    Establishment of            ·   Develop within      ·   Board decision.       ·   Moderately
Reform - EdL       reinforce the capacity of          financial            internal audit                  EdL capacity to                                   unsatisfactory
Governance         the Finance department             management           department                      follow-up on                                      Recommendations
                                                      systems                                              financial TA,                                     for reinforcing
                                                                                                           auditors                                          financial and
                                                                                                           recommendations                                   accounting function
                                                                                                           , and updated                                     have been made.
                                                                                                           inventory of                                      Consultant was
                                                                                                           assets                                            hired to install a
                                                                                                                                                             new Financial
                                                                                                                                                             Management
                                                                                                                                                             System




                                                                                    30
                         .                                ·   EDL                   ·   Asset registration    ·   Improvement in        ·   Issuance of             ·   Unsatisfactory
                                                              corporatization           and valuation             accountability,           necessary decrees to         No progress with
                                                              including decrees         completed.                productivity and          corporatize new             corporatization or
                                                              issued.                                             performance.              entities of EDL6            assets registration.
                                                                                                                                                                        Decrees not issues.
                                                                                                              ·   EdL technically       ·   Availability of asset
                                                                                                                  ready for                 ledger and asset
                                                                                                                  commercial                management system
                                                                                                                  evaluation and            in place.
                                                                                                                  restructuring.


                         ·    Audit of 2001 accounts      ·   Audit of the 2005-    ·   Audit of 2002-        ·   Availability of       ·   Auditors appointed.     ·   Satisfactory
                              of EdL completed and            06 accounts               2004 accounts             financial                                             Audits have been
                              Auditors retained for           completed.                completed.                statements for        ·   Completion of               prepared for 2002-
                              2002-2006.                                                                          EdL.                      audits.                     2005, although
                                                                                    ·   Implementation of                                                               recommendations
                                                                                        auditor's                                                                       not fully
                                                                                        recommendations                                                                 implemented
                                                                                        regarding
                                                                                        accounting
                                                                                        procedures and
                                                                                        system reliability.

                         ·    Contract awarded for                                                            ·   Improved              ·   Letter of award         ·   Satisfactory
                              the consulting advisory                                                             operational               issued.                     Consultant awarded
                              team at EdL to support                                                              efficiency and
                              its restructuring/                                                                  reporting capacity
                              turnaround                                                                          in preparation for
                                                                                                                  restructuring.


                         ·    Contract awarded for the                                                        ·   Sustained             ·   Contract                ·   Satisfactory
                              supervision of the O&M                                                              improvement in            negotiations                Contract awarded
                              contracts for Beddawi and                                                           the availability of       finalized.
                              Zahrani                                                                             generation units
                                                                                                                  to alleviate power
                                                                                                                  shortages.
Power Sector             ·    Memorandum of               ·   Negotiations          ·   Approbation of                                  ·   Clear timeline and      ·   Partially
Reform - Fuel Cost            Understanding (MoU) or          completed on              cost, financing                                     costing arrangement         satisfactory
reduction                     equivalent signed for the       quantity, price and       mode and role of                                    defined.                    negotiations have
                              introduction of natural         off take point (if        private sector                                                                  been on-going since
                              gas (piped or LNG).             piped); Contract                                                                                          2007, but gas is not
                                                              with terminal                                                                                             yet available. After
                                                              operator agreed (if                                                                                       completing the


      6
          Including how to deal with severance pay.

                                                                                             31
                                                         LNG)                                                                                                      preparation of the
                                                                                                                                                                   ICR gas arrived in
                                                                                                                                                                   October 2009 in
                                                                                                                                                                   partial quantity to
                                                                                                                                                                   Badawi and
                                                                                                                                                                   therefore this action
                                                                                                                                                                   is rated partially
                                                                                                                                                                   satisfactory.
Power Sector       ·   Consultants employed to       ·   At least one           ·   Selection of         ·    Test solution for     ·   Launch project.        ·   Unsatisfactory
Reform ­ Billing       advise on installation of         contract tendered          contractor(s)             improving                                             No contract
                       meters and awarding of            to the private                                       revenue basis of                                     tendered for
                       distribution service              sector for the                                       EdL                                                  improving
                       contracts to the private          management and                                                                                            distribution
                       sector                            operation of                                                                                              services. No pilot
                                                         selected area of the                                                                                      project started
                                                         distribution
                                                         network (including
                                                         billing and
                                                         collection)
Business           ·   Methodology for               ·   The methodology        ·   Reforms completed; legislative changes in       ·   About 45 %                                         ·
Environment            simplifying business start-       under                      place.                                              reduction in
                       up processes and                  implementation                                                                 business start-up
                       procedures developed.             based on a MoU                                                                 complexity ( time,
                                                         between concerned                                                              cost procedures).
                                                         public agencies.
                                                     ·   Legislative changes
                                                         for further            ·   TRA is carrying over its regulatory functions
                                                         improvement under
                                                         preparation.



                   ·   Telecommunication             ·   Telecom regulatory                                                                                    ·   Moderately
                       Regulatory Authority              functions                                                                  ·   Improved service           unsatisfactory
                       (TRA) established and             transferred to the                                                             quality.                   TRA established
                       Board appointed.                  TRA.                                                                       ·   Greater ability to         but not fully
                                                                                                                                        attract investors to       operational
                                                                                                                                        the sector.
                                                                                                                                    ·   Greater service
                                                                                                                                        provision to support
                                                                                                                                        businesses
                   ·   Authorization for sale of     ·   An invitation for                                                                                     ·   Unsatisfactory
                       mobile telecom sector's           expression of                                                              ·   Lower public debt          Invitation for
                       assists and relevant              interest in                                                                    and improved fiscal        expression of
                       operating licenses                participating in the                                                           outlook through            interest was
                       underway.                         process of acquiring                                                           proceeds from              launched but
                                                         the licenses and                                                               privatization.             suspended in
                                                         assets for the                                                                                            2008

                                                                                         32
                                                          mobile telephone
                                                          companies issued;
                                                          privatization
                                                          process nearing
                                                          completion
Social Safety Nets   ·   Establishment of the         ·   Proxy-means            ·   Restructuring plan for Ministry of Social   ·   More poor people       ·   Satisfactory          ·
                         Inter-Ministerial                testing (PMT)              Affairs underway                                benefiting from            The Cabinet
                         Committee for Social             targeting formula      ·   Based on pilot, cash assistance program         social assistance          approved the use
                         Policy (IMCSP)                   for safety nets            using PMT targeting mechanism scaled up.        and less leakages in       of PMT.
                         supported by a                   adopted by IMCSP       ·   Transfer of budgets between MOSA, MOH,          safety net programs
                         functioning Technical        ·   Roadmap for                and MEHE to address duplication issue is    ·   Reduce overlap
                         Secretariat                      implementation of a        reflected in 2009 budget                        between ministries
                                                          PMT mechanism          ·   New round of contracts with NGOs                                           Moderately
                     ·   MOSA developed                   for safety nets            (including Care Program) based on new                                      Unsatisfactory.
                         standards and new criteria       adopted and                standards and criteria and performance-                                    MOSA has
                         for service providers for        approved by                based contracts.                                                           developed new
                         the Care Program                 IMCSP and its                                                                                         standards and new
                                                          (pilot) testing                                                                                       criteria. However
                                                          underway.                                                                                             the standards are
                                                      ·   Action plan for                                                                                       not yet approved by
                                                          elimination of                                                                                        the Cabinet.
                                                          duplication in
                                                          services between
                                                          MOSA, MOH, and
                                                          MEHE adopted by
                                                          Inter-Ministerial
                                                          Committee for
                                                          Social Policy
                                                      ·   MOSA has issued a
                                                          ministerial decree
                                                          adopting the new
                                                          standards and
                                                          criteria for Care
                                                          Program Service
                                                          Providers.
                                                      ·   MOSA has issued a
                                                          ministerial decree
                                                          adopting new
                                                          procedures for
                                                          contracting out
                                                          programs
                                                          implemented to
                                                          non-public service
                                                          providers, including
                                                          at a minimum:
                                                          competitive
                                                          selection of service
                                                          providers, time

                                                                                         33
                                                        bound contracts,
                                                        results based
                                                        financing, and
                                                        standards for
                                                        service providers
                                                        and accreditation
                                                        and licensing
Social Insurance   ·   Technical discussions on     ·    Estimate               ·   Regulations for new FF-DC system              ·   Control                 ·   Moderately       ·
(pensions and          a draft law reforming            government arrears          approved by Cabinet (implementation               accumulation of             Unsatisfactory
health)                the end-of-service               with the NSSF and           underway)                                         implicit government         The Joint
                       indemnity and                    agree on                ·   Reform plan for the pension systems for           debt; improve the           Parliamentary
                       introducing the new              refinancing plan.           Civil Servants and the Military approved by       mobility of the             Committee
                       fully-funded defined-        ·   Estimate unfunded           Cabinet.                                          labor force; contain        discussed,
                       contributions pension            liabilities of the      ·   New electronic claims processing and              the tax-wedge and
                                                                                                                                                                  revised and
                       system completed by a            NSSF and agree on           payment system in place.                          provide incentives
                                                                                                                                                                  approved the
                       specialized                      a refinancing plan.     ·   Reform of the health insurance branch under       for formal
                       parliamentary                ·   Actuarial valuation         implementation.                                   employment                  draft law
                       committee                        of NSSF health          ·   New accrual base accounting system of the         creation; rationalize       replacing the
                   ·   Technical work for               insurance branch            NSSF under implementation.                        and expand                  end of service
                       preparation of key reforms       completed.                                                                    coverage, and               indemnity
                       underway.                    ·   Reform program to                                                             improve security,           scheme with
                   ·   Board of the NSSF agrees         restore the financial                                                         equity and the              FF-DC pension
                       to assessment of current         equilibrium of the                                                            quality of services         system. Draft
                       situation by external            health insurance                                                                                          Law still with
                       experts and preparation of       branch of the NSSF
                                                                                                                                                                  Parliament for
                       reforms                          submitted to
                                                        Cabinet (including
                                                                                                                                                                  discussion at
                                                        analysis of fiscal                                                                                        unknown date.
                                                        and welfare
                                                        impacts).
                                                    ·   Time table for
                                                        electronic
                                                        submission of
                                                        claims adopted by
                                                        Cabinet.
                                                    ·   Expanded list of
                                                        admission protocols
                                                        adopted by Cabinet.
                                                    ·   Team of medical
                                                        auditors reinforced
                                                        and redeployed.
                                                    ·   Revised
                                                        implementation
                                                        Plan for Second
                                                        phase of the Master
                                                        Plan to reform
                                                        business and
                                                        administrative

                                                                                        34
process approved
by the Board of the
NSSF.




                      35
Annex 8. MAP




     36
