Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4129-BD 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Third Development Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 15, 2005 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4129-BD 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 15, 2005,
 between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
BANGLADESH (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated 
October 24, 2005, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
accelerate poverty reduction through structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy 
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution 
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program 
during the execution thereof;  
 
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association, and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
 
(C) 
on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit, 
in one single tranche, as hereinafter provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through  
May 1, 2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is 
made.”; 
 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the 
currency specified in Section 2.02(b) of the Development Credit 
Page  3
-
2
-
Agreement; provided, however, that withdrawals in the currency of the 
Borrower shall be made in such currency or currencies as the Association 
shall
 from time to time reasonably select.”; 
 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Credit from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) 
Not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in 
the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by 
the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.”; and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified 
above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06 and 9.07.  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the 
following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Anti-corruption Commission” or “ACC” means the anti-corruption 
commission established by the Borrower under the Independent Anti-Corruption 
Commission Act, February 2004; 
 
(b) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement;  
 
(c) 
“NBR” means the Borrower’s National Board of Revenue;   
 
(d) 
“NCBs” means the Borrower’s nationalized commercial banks as set out 
in Bangladesh Banks (Nationalization) Order, 1972 (P.O. No. 26 of 1972) and include, 
Page  4
-
3
-
for purposes of this Agreement, Agrani Bank, Janata Bank, Rupali Bank and Sonali 
Bank; and 
 
(e) 
“SOE” means the Borrower’s state-owned enterprises. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred thirty eight million one hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 138,100,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in support of the Program. 
 
(b) 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:  (i) all withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into an account in dollars 
designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Association; and (ii) the Borrower shall 
ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Credit into said account, an equivalent 
amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner 
acceptable to the Association. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be 
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Association determines at any time that an amount of the Credit was 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of said payment 
to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and 
Page  5
-
4
-
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. 
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing January 15, 
2016, and ending July 15, 2045. Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on July 15, 2025, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and 
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.   
 
(b) Whenever:
 (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by the Association of the development of 
the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph 
(a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of 
the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of 
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under 
the abovementioned repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01(a) of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Association such 
information relating to the provisions of Article II of this Agreement as the Association 
may, from time to time, reasonably request. Up
on the Association’s request, the 
Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Event of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination  
 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or any Joint Secretary, 
or Deputy Secretary or Senior Assistant Secretary or Assistant Secretary or Joint Chief, 
or Deputy Chief or Senior Assistant Chief or Assistant Chief of the Economic Relations 
Division of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as the representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  8
-
7
-
For the Borrower: 
 
Economic Relations Division 
Ministry of Finance 
Government of the People’s Republic 
 
of
Bangladesh 
Sher-e-Bangla Nagar 
Dhaka, Bangladesh 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
BAHIRSAMPAD 
 
642226 SETU BJ 
88028113088  
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 
 (202) 
477-
6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Dhaka, People’s Republic of Bangladesh, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH 
 
By /s/ Ismail Zabihullah 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Christine Wallich 
Country Director 
Bangladesh 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not 
be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1.  
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have financed or 
agreed to finance under another credit, loan, or grant; 
 
2.  
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations 
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
4. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the 
Borrower is a party);  
 
5. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, 
if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
6. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association 
to remedy the situation. 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
 
Financial Sector/NCBs
1. 
The Borrower has brought Rupali Bank to the point of divestment, under 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association. 
 
2. 
The Borrower has implemented, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association, a strategy to improve efficiency of the NCBs, which  includes, 
inter 
alia
,
restrictions on credit growth and lending to single large borrowers, as well as 
measures to reduce costs, including staffing reductions and branch closures.   
 
SOE Reform
3. 
The Borrower has reduced the financial losses of manufacturing SOEs by 
ten  
(10 %) percent. 
 
4. 
The Borrower has initiated the implementation of NBR modernization, 
including strengthening of the functions of the NBR, especially audit and 
information technology, and initiated the hiring process for key staff.  
 
5. 
The Borrower: (i) has reduced its arrears to the major power utilities in the 
country to under five (5) months of receivables; (ii) has made arrangements in its 
Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development to reduce, in agreed 
phases, by 
 
July 2006, the arrears of all city corporations, municipalities, and Dhaka Water 
Supply and Sewerage Authority to less than three (3) months equivalent of 
receivables; and (iii) to address the arrears of the jute mills,  has undertaken to 
approve a loan to such jute mills to allow them to clear their arrears, and (iv) has 
undertaken to provide related supporting data to the Association on a quarterly 
basis, starting in October 2005. 
 
Energy Sector
6. 
In order to clarify its policy for sale of captive private power to the grid, 
the Borrower has employed a group of consultants to draft a policy for captive 
power sales to the grid, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association.   
 
Page  13
-
12
-
7. 
The Borrower has adopted a time-bound plan for financial restructuring of 
the power sector, and has employed a group of consultants to draft a power sector 
financial recovery plan. 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
Broad-based Governance
8. 
The Borrower has implemented the first phase of a new budget process for 
FY06 budget in four selected ministries, which includes allocation of resources 
for programs integrating recurrent and capital spending within the medium-term 
expenditure framework, and in alignment with the 
Borrower’s Poverty Reduction 
Strategy Paper priorities. 
 
9. 
The Borrower has implemented a new personnel management system, 
agreed with the Association, including extended merit-based promotions, transfers 
within clusters, revised compensation system and enhanced training. 
 
10.  
The Borrower’s Cabinet has: (i) prepared a draft procurement law, 
including a provision for concession contracting, and (ii) undertaken to approve 
and send the said draft law to Parliament. 
 
11. 
The Borrower: (i) has started operationalization of the Anti-Corruption 
Commission, through the appointment, in November 2004, of its Chairman and 
three Commissioners; (ii) has sanctioned the creation of an initial five hundred 
thirty six (536) posts at ACC; (iii) has agreed with the ACC on the creation of a 
Placement Committee to review all ACC screened staff of the former Bureau 
Against Corruption to determine their suitability for placement in the ACC; (iv) 
has agreed with the ACC on a more rigorous screening process going forward; 
and (v) has agreed with the ACC for it to present an organogram, and personnel 
and operational rules for the Government’s approval.   
 
International trade
12. 
The Borrower has removed, through appropriate legal and administrative 
measures, all protective quantitative restrictions, except those permitted on 
grounds of health, national security, religion and environmental protection, and 
those covered by the World Trade Organization’s waivers. 
 
