                                                 Documentof
                                              The WorldBank

                                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                                     ReportNo. 33758-BD




                      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                     PROGRAMDOCUMENT FORA PROPOSEDCREDIT

                            INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 138.1MILLION

                                  (US$200 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                      TO

                        THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLICOFBANGLADESH

                                                      FORA

                             DEVELOPMENT SUPPORTCREDIT I11


                                              November1,2005




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
South Asia Region


  This document has a restricteddistribution and may be usedbyrecipients only inthe performanceo ftheir official
  duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization

                              GOVERNMENTFISCALYEAR
                                       KJLYl-KJI'JE30


                                 CURRENT EQUIVALENTS
                            Currency Unit = Bangladeshi Taka (Tk.)
                              US$1 =Tk. 65.65 (September 2005)


                           ACRONYMSAND ABBREVIATIONS


ADB     Asian Development Bank                    IDA         International Development Association
ADP     AnnualDevelopment Program                 IMF         International Monetary Fund
AL      Awami League                              PRSP        InterimPoverty Reduction Strategy
                                                              Paper
A T C   Agreement on Textiles & Clothing          MDG         Millennium Development Goal
AUSAID  Australian Agency for International       M o F       Ministryo fFinance
        Development
BNP     BangladeshNationalist Party               NBR         NationalBoard o f Revenue
BPDB    Bangladesh Power Development Board        N C B       Nationalized Commercial Bank
BPC     Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation          NGO         Non-Government Organization
BTRC    Bangladesh Telecommunication Regulatory   NNP         NationalNutrition Project
        Commission
BTTB    Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Board N T R C A     Registrationand Certification Authority

C&AG    Comptroller and Auditor General           PEDP-I1      Primary Education Development
                                                               Project
C A O   Chief Accounting Officer                  P F M        Public Financial Management
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy               PER          Public Expenditure Review
CEA     Country Environmental Analysis            PM           Particular Matter
C G A   Controller General of Accounts            PRGF         Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
DSC     Development Support Credit                 REB         Rural Electrification Board
EGBM    Enterprise Growth andBank Modernization    SEDF        South Asia Enterprise Development
                                                               Facility
ERC     Energy Regulatory Commission               SOE         State Own Enterprise
FMRP    Financial Management Reform Program        SRO         Special Regulatory Order
FMRP    Financial Management Reform Program        TA          Technical Assistance
GDP     Gross Domestic Product                     VAW         Violence Against Women
GFS     Government Finance Statistics              VRS         Voluntary Retirement Scheme
HAPP    NIV/AIDS Prevention Project                WTO         World Trade Organization
I A S   International Accounting Standards


                                 Vice President: Praful Patel, SARW
                              CountryDirector: Christine I.  Wallich, S A C B D
                                Sector Director: Sadiq Ahmed, SASPR
                               Sector Manager: KapilKapoor, SASPR
                           Task TeamLeaders: AnthonyRichardHowe Bottrill and
                                                  Sandeep Mahajan, SASPR

                                               TABLE OF CONTENTS


CREDITAND PROGRAMSUMMARY                               ..................................................................................................................          i

I INTRODUCTION
 .                        .............................................................................................................................................           1

I1.   RECENT DEVELOPMENTSINBANGLADESH             .....................................................................................................................
                                                                                   .......................................................................................        3
         RecentPoliticalDevelopments                                                                                                                                              3
         RecentEconomicDevelopments                   ..................................................................................................................          4

I11 THE GOVERNMENT'SPOVERTYREDUCTIONSTRATEGY
   .                                                                                                          ..............................................................      5

I V.  POLICY REFORMSSUPPORTEDBYDEVELOPMENTSUPPORT CREDITS SERIES
         Pillar 1: StrengtheningCore Governance                       ...................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                ...................6
                                                                                                                                                                                  8
         Pillar 2: ReducingSectoralGovernanceImpedimentsto ImprovedInvestment
                   Climate andProvisionof Infrastructure
                                                  ...................................................................................................................
                                                                                     ...................................................................................         14
         Pillar 3: Empoweringthe Poor                                                                                                                                            18

V .   THE BANK'S COUNTRYASSISTANCE STRATEGY                                                                                                                                      22
         LendingActivities  ........................................................................................................................................
                                                                                             ............................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                 22
         Non-LendingActivities       ...............................................................................................................................             23

VI PROGRESSOFDSC-I11TRIGGERSANDPRIORITIESFORTHENEXTPHASE
   .                                                                                                                                               ...........................   24

VI1 IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS
    .                                                                                                                                                                            29
         Monitoring andEvaluation            ........................................................................................................................
                                                                      .................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                 29
         CreditAdministration.DisbursementandAuditing                                                                                                                            30
         EnvironmentalIssues      ..................................................................................................................................
                                                                                         ................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                 30

VI11 BENEFITSANDRISKS
    .                               ................................................................................................................................             31

                                                              ANNEXES

ANNEX 1: Bangladesh: Medium-TermStructuralReformPolicyMatrixFY03-FY06                                                                    ....................................    34
ANNEX 2: Bangladeshat a Glance     .................................................................................................................................
                                            .........................................................................................................................            47
ANNEX 3: StatisticalAnnexes                                                                                                                                                      49
ANNEX 4: Bangladesh: FundRelations                   .................................................................................................................           54
ANNEX 5: Letter of DevelopmentPolicy                   ...............................................................................................................           57
ANNEX 6: Statement ofLoansandCredits                       ...........................................................................................................           66

MAP

                                                              Task Team

The Proposed Development Support Credit I11 was prepared by an IBRD team consisting of Anthony
Richard Howe Bottrill. Sandeep Mahajan (Task Team Leaders). Shamsuddin Ahmad. Burhanuddin Ahmed.
G.M.KhurshidAlam. Amit Dar. Raihan Elahi. Syed Mynuddin Hussain. Zahid Hussain. Md.Iqbal. Z a h l
Islam, Alma Kanani. Esperanza Lasagabaster. Paul Jonathan Martin. Syed Nizamuddin. Zaidi Sattar.
Kiatchai Sophastienphong. Alan F. Townsend. Kishor Uprety. Suraiya Zannath. Bala Bhaskar Naidu
Kalimili. Aneeka Rahman. Oxana Bricha. Joyce Mormita Das. Mehar Akhter Khan.

Peer Reviewers: Sanjay Pradhan (Sector Director); Dipak Dasgupta (Sector Manager); David Rosenblatt
(Lead Economist and Sector Leader)


                       CREDIT AND PROGRAMSUMMARY

                 THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLICOFBANGLADESH
                     DEVELOPMENTSUPPORT CREDIT I11


Borrower:     The People's Republic o f Bangladesh


Amount:       SDR 138.1 million (US$200million equivalent)


Terms:        Standard IDA terms; 40-year maturity and a 10-year grace period


Description:  The proposed Credit is the third in a planned series o f programmatic operations
              that,  alongside the IMF-supported PRGF program, has supported the
              implementation o f the Government's reform agenda.            Governance-related
              reforms, at the macro and sector levels, are at the heart o f DSC 111. DSC III-
              supported reforms have sought to strengthen sectoral governance in banking,
              health, education, and SOEs, especially energy; and further strengthen core
              governance functions, with emphasis on procurement, public financial
              management, tax administration, public administration, and checks and balances
              on public entities.

Benefits:     As in the case o f the DSCs Iand 11, the reforms supported under the proposed
              program are likely to have a positive impact on economic growth, exports and
              incentives for private sector investment, which should help accelerate poverty
              reduction. Over the longer term, progress in institutional reforms supported by
              the Credit i s expected to promote sustained macroeconomic stability, more
              effective government institutions, private sector development, including
              privatization, improved public service delivery, and enhanced transparency and
              good governance. These reforms will help reduce corruption and improve the
              prospects for private investment.

Risksand      Political risks: With the next round o f general elections scheduled for January
Mitigation    2007, the political landscape for deeper structural reforms i s becoming
Strategy:     increasingly difficult.  A related risk is o f growing resistance from vested
              interests. The Government, however, avows to continue with its reform agenda
              and its efforts to form political and social consensus around the PRSP i s
              commendable. To mitigate the impact o f political risks, the timing, scale, and
              scope o f future programmatic credits would be dictated by the commitment to
              Government's reforms and, as in the case o f the previous DSCs, disbursements
              would be made ex-poste - upon implementation o f agreed reforms. Only those
              reforms that are strongly owned by the Government will be considered for
              support. IDA will also continue workmg closely with other donors to generate
              broader political support for reforms.

              Governance problems could potentially overwhelm, as corruption is a major
              concern and the Government's capacity i s weak. The Government's efforts,
              supported by the DSCs, on several fronts would help address this. In economic



                                             1

              governance, a number o f recent sectoral reforms in banking, energy, SOEs,
              public administration, and the trade system should help.             Reforms in
              procurement, financial management, and the setting up o f the independent Anti
              Corruption Commission will have long-term benefits once fully effective.
              However, these can only be viewed as incremental steps in what i s necessarily a
              long-term and complex process o f institutional building. Given the severe
              capacity constraints in the country, the Bank and the rest o f the donor
              community will need to stay engaged over a long period.

              Budgetary and fiduciary risks: Fungibility o f funds implies that budgetary
              resources riskbeing diverted or misused. The Government, however, has a good
              record o f allocating public spending to key development sectors, including social
              spending and infrastructure. To further mitigate the risk, auditing arrangements
              and financial management within ministnes are being strengthened. The new
              procurement regulations should reduce the scope for misuse o f budgetary funds
              in contracting.     External oversight by the C&AG's office i s also being
              strengthened.    Further, tracking studies o f major spending on health and
              education should also curb leakages.

              Implementation capacity risks:           Implementation capacity i s a serious
              bottleneck partly due to the overly centralized nature o f public administration.
              Ongoing reforms in public administration to strengthen civil service incentives,
              accountability and training will help. Bank and other donors are also providing
              technical assistance to strengthen capacities in a number o f core areas o f
              economic management including banking, taxation, the budgetary process, and
              the energy sector.

              Externalrisk: Bangladesh faces two major external risks. One arises from the
              removal o f the global quota system for garment exports earlier this year which
              has led to unprecedented competition for Bangladesh's garment exports.        To
              mitigate the medium and long-term impact o f this, authorities need to promote
              export diversification, further reduce anti-export bias, and improve the
              investment climate; measures being supported under the proposed operation.
              The more imminent external risk emanates from the continued increase in
              imported petroleum prices. To mitigate this, IDA will continue to press for
              implementation o f the agreed pricing framework and supportive monetary and
              fiscal policies to containinflationary pressures.

Estimated
Disbursement: SDR 138.1 million (US$200 million) disbursed ina single tranche upon credit
              effectiveness

Project ID
Number:       PO90832




                                             11

  IDA PROGRAM DOCUMENTFORA PROPOSEDTHIRD DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT
            CREDIT (DSC-111)TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLICOFBANGLADESH


                                       I INTRODUCTION

1.       Faster economic growth has helped Bangladesh reduce the poverty rate by about 1
percentage point per year since 1990.' Independent for just 33 years, Bangladeshhas achieved a
positive development record in the face o f extremely weak initial conditions, virulent and often
times violent politics, fragile institutions and poor governance, frequent large-scale destruction by
extreme weather conditions, and the negative global image generated by these. The advent o f
democracy in the early 1990s was accompanied by a quickening in the pace o f economic refoms
with greater macroeconomic stability, a trend towards trade openness, and economic deregulation.
Growth in GDP per head has increased from 1percent during the 1980s to over 3 percent since the
early 1990s: per capita growth has moved to an even higher trajectory o f 4 percent since FY03.
Growth has also been remarkably stable: Bangladesh i s among the handful o f countnes that have
sustainedpositive per-capita growth in each year since the early 1 9 9 0 ~ . ~

2.       Progress on social measures has been encouraging. Primary enrollment for both genders
i s near universal, and the secondary enrollment rate has more than doubled since independence.
Bangladesh has already met the MillenniumDevelopment Goal (MDG) on gender parity in school
enrollment at secondary and primary levels.          The child mortality rate has halved, and life
expectancy has increased by more than 15 years. The decline in infant and child mortality rates,
from 140 and 95 respectively in 1972 to about 60 and 30 in 2000, was among the fastest in the
developing world. Ifpresent trends continue, Bangladesh and Maldives will be the only South
Asian countries to achieve their MDGs o f reducing infant and child mortality. A decline in the
total fertility rate from 6.3 children in 1975 to 3.3 reduced population growth to 1.5 percent a year
by the mid-1990s.

3.       Despite sustained progress, a formidable development agenda remains given the low
starting base. Almost half the population i s still under the poverty line, over half the country i s
functionally illiterate, child malnutrition rates are among the highest in the developing world, and
maternal mortality rates, albeit lower than in India, Pahstan, and Nepal in the region, remain
among the highest in the developing world outside o f Sub-Saharan Africa. The proportion o f births
attended by a doctor or skilled midwife i s less than 1.5 percent for the poorest households,
compared with 22 percent for the richest: this equity gap i s one o f the highest inthe world. Despite
expanded access to education, poor quality pervades the system and completion rates are very low:
for instance, in primary education 33 percent o f enrolled children do not complete the full cycle,
while less than 10 percent o f grade 1pupils complete grade 12.

4.       There is no denying that there are several positive features of governance already inplace
that the country can build on. Bangladesh i s a new democracy with its fourth consecutive general
elections due in early 2007.         Voters have thnce voted out the incumbent party, making
governments more responsive to the needs o f the electorate. An activist Supreme Court has played
its role in promoting checks and balances. A vigorous and rich civil society and a relatively free
press have contributed to holding governments accountable. Nonetheless, in a number of

'    The poverty rate inBangladesh fell from 59 percent in 1991to 50 percent in2000. The latest round of
     the Household Income andExpenditure Survey (HIES) is currently being carried out.
     Bangladesh last recorded negative growth in 1988; when devastating floods ravaged the economy and
     killedthousands.

important aspects of governance, Bangladesh continues toface huge challenges, which hamper
development. Inparticular, the law and order situation is weak and corruption i s a major concern.
The Government's capacity to deliver essential services i s further constrained by highly centralized
political and administrative systems. Capturing this, recent cross-country governance indicators
developed at the Bank show Bangladesh to be a poor performer on four important measures o f
governance: control o f corruption, political stability, regulatory quality, and rule of law.3
Perceptions o f a weak governance environment have adversely affected Bangladesh's global
image. It i s imperative that the Government address these issues if the country i s to improve its
growth and development prospects.

5.       The Government is beginning to implement a broad-based reform program to tackle
governance issues, with donor support.          Reforms in core governance areas such as public
administration, tax administration, procurement, and financial management will have long-term
benefits, as will the recently established Anti-Corruption Commission, once it is fully effective.
Related sectoral reforms have sought to strengthen governance in banking, health, education, and
state-owned enterprises (SOEs), and energy. The activities o f the public sector banks, previously a
huge source o f mis-governance, have been curtailed through tighter MOUs. The culture o f non-
payment to energy companies has been another root o f systemic corruption. Recent successful
efforts to reduce the stock o f arrears to power companies and improved collection o f current bills
have addressed this partially. These are important incremental steps in what i s necessarily a long-
term, complex, and a daunting agenda.

6.       I n the area of economic management, the Government has maintained macroeconomic
stability and pushed forward the structural reform agenda despite a difJicult political
environment. Trade-related quantitative restrictions were virtually eliminated while holding the
line on average tariff protection. Unification o f the capital and recurrent budgets was initiated and
policy orientation of expenditure allocations strengthened on a pilot basis in four ministries. Public
administration reforms were further deepened with increased emphasis on merit in promotions,
creation o f a Career Planning and Training Wing in the Establishment Ministry, and limitingnew
hiring innon-essential posts. The CentralBank's oversight o f the banlung sector was strengthened,
one nationalized commercial bank (NCB) was brought to the point o f sale, and management
support teams hired for the other 3 NCBs. State-owned manufacturing enterprises reduced their
losses by 10percent inFY05, and power utilities substantially improved their financial positions.

7.       Theseefforts haveproduced relativelyfavorable development outcomes. Per-capita GDP
growth has averaged 4 percent over FY03-05, the highest 3-year average since independence. In
FY05, GDP growth remained above 5 percent even though severe floods caused widespread
damage earlier in the fiscal year, while monetary, fiscal, and external sector targets stayed within
the medium-term macro framework agreed with the IMF despite severe exogenous pressures
arising from the floods and sharp increases in global commodity prices.               Although the latest
poverty data are still being collected, proxy indicators suggest that good progress on poverty
reduction and social development has continued inrecent years.

8.       Prospects of annual growth remaining around 5-6percent over the next 2-3 years are
good as long as Bangladesh maintains macro stability and sustains past saving and investment rates
and the current pace o f economic reforms. As suggested by a recent World Bank report: growth


    External, perceptions-based indices, also rank Bangladesh quite l o w o n corruption comparisons. Most
    notably, Transparency International, the Berlin based private corruption rating agency, has placed
    Bangladeshlast inits cross-country corruption rankings five years ina row.
     "Bangladesh: Growth and Export Competitiveness." 2005. World Bank, Washington, D.C.


                                                    2

could accelerate to perhaps 7-8 percent ifthe Government scales up its efforts to reduce regulatory
costs, address infrastructure constraints (especially ports and power), deepen and improve the
efficiency o f the financial sector, improve labor quality, and further lower trade bamers.
Investmentrates would need to rise substantially to a level unlikely to be covered by higher private
savings alone: this will require fiscal prudence (cutting budget deficits, lowering SOE losses etc.),
continued donor support, and significant increases inforeign capital inflows.

9.       The Government's recently completed Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP)
recognizes these challenges and opportunities. It lays out ambitious development goals and
emphasizes the Government's commitment to reforms. An Interim PRSP was presented to the
Boards o f the IDA and the IMF inJune 2003. The Boards agreed that it provided a cohesive policy
framework for implementing a pro-poor growth strategy. The Government has asked donors to
support implementation o f the I-PRSP and PRSP. The IMF is providing a three-year, SDR 347
million PRGF program, due to end in December 2006: the 3rdPRGF review was approved by the
IMFBoard on June 29,2005      .5The Bank has provided a series o fDevelopment Support Credits, o f
which the proposedcredit i s the third, to back broad-based structural, governance-relatedreforms.6

                         11     RECENTDEVELOPMENTS          INBANGLADESH

Recent PoliticalDevelopments

10.      The current Government - a coalition o f the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) and
three small parties, the Jamaat-e-Islami, the Islami Oikyo Jote, and the Manpur faction o f the Jatiya
Party - came topower in October 2001 with a majoriw of more than two-third BNP alone enjoys
an outright majority in the Parliament. That marked the culmination o f the third consecutive
democratic elections, overseen by a non-partisan caretaker government and deemed by observers to
have been free and fair. It also marked the second time in a row that the two dominant rival
parties, the BNP and the Awami League (AL),traded control o f power. The strong Parliamentary
majority was seen as a mandate for reforms to improve governance and strengthen economic
management. The Government responded with the appointment o f a reform-oriented Finance
Minister and a group o f like-minded senior officials, implementation o f some early structural and
macro policy reformactions, and revival o fthe previously moribund PRSP process.

11.      The Government haspursued reforms opportunistically in theface of a difficultpolitical
environment, that has become increasingly so. Sharp antagonism and confrontational politics
between the BNP and the AL have hindered the full functioning o f democracy. Lack o f agreement
on parliamentary procedures and violent street clashes have precluded any constructive debate and
the emergence o f any political consensus on reforms. The AL has ratcheted up street protests -
hartals - in a campaign to oust the Government.'          The Government also faces opposition to
economic reforms from a growing number o f vested interests. The approach o f the next round o f
general elections, scheduled for January 2007, will further test the Government's willingness to
pursue broad-based reforms.

12.      Political violence is on the rise, having claimed the lives of several key political figures
in thepast two years. An AL Member o f Parliament was killed inearly-2004. A grenade attack at


    The PRGF was supplemented inFY05 by a SDR 53.33 million Trade IntegrationMechanism facility.
'   Inaddition, aUS$lOO millionProgrammatic EducationSector Programwas disbursedearlier inFY05.
    When in opposition, both parties have used hartals, which the UNDP estimates cost the economy 3-4
    percent o f GDP a year. The costs are born disproportionately by daily wage earners who are typically
    among the poorest and most vulnerable.


                                                   3

an AL rally in August 2004 killed 23 people and injured the AL party president who is also a
former Prime Minister. Another grenade attack at a public meeting in February 2005 killed a
former AL finance minister and some other party workers. The offices o f Grameen Bank, the
renowned micro-finance enterprise, and BRAC, Bangladesh's leading NGO, also came under
bomb attacks in 2004. The Government has banned two militant Islamic organizations; Jamatul
Mujahideen andJagrata MuslimJanata Bangladeshinconnectionwith the attacks on Grameen and
BRAC and has apprehended alleged lullers o f the former finance minister. More recently, in
August 2005, several hundred small devices exploded almost simultaneously across the country,
lullingtwo and injuringhundreds.

13.       Operating in this difJicult political milieu, a small group of reformers, led by the
Finance and Planning Minister, has sought topush forward a bold reform agenda. To support
these efforts and to strengthen the hands o f the reform champions, the GOBsought donors' support.
Recognizing this as an important opportunity to reengage the GOBon much needed structural and
governance reforms, and after having operated under a low case inFYOl and FY02 in the absence
o f a similar opening, the Bank's response has been inthe form o f a series o f single-tranche DSCs: a
US$300 million DSC 1 was approved by the Board in June 2003 followed by a US$200 million
DSC 2 in July 2004. This support complements the IMF's PRGF program, and has been a major
vehicle for helping the GOBin implementing a series o f critical reforms that are elaborated later in
this paper.

RecentEconomicDevelopments

14.       Output has grown by about 5.4 percent in FY05           - despite severe floods during July-
September 2004. The floods damaged the aman crop and also affected adversely the aus harvest.8
Output of crops and vegetables declined by 3 percent for the year as a whole. Robust growth inthe
rest o f the economy, including good export performance, continued strength o f the services sector,
growth o f non-crop agriculture and a bumper boro crop enabled the economy to maintain its
overall growth.

15.       The overall macro policy stance remained prudent during FY05 despite heightened
exogenous pressures due to sharp global commodity price increases and the 2004 floods.
Macroeconomic stability was maintained with fiscal, monetary, and external indicators remaining
within the thresholds o f the macro fi-amework agreed with the IMF under the PRGF program.
Recognizing this, the IMF's Executive Board approved the 3`d review o f the PRGF program inJune
2005.

16.       Fiscal discipline was maintained, with the deficit for FY05 estimated at 3.5 percent, up
slightlyfrom 3.2percent in FY04. The higher deficit inFY05 i s consistent with the revised target
set with the IMF, takmg into account the higher (mostly donor funded) public spending to cope
with the effects o f last year's floods. Revenue rose by 13 percent inFY05, below the 19 percent
growth target set in the budget last year. Lower actual spending than programmed in the revised
budget allowed the deficit target to be met. One area o f concern that has emerged is the growing
losses of the Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation (BPC) due to the sharp increases in international
oil prices (see para 39) that have been insufficiently passed through to domestic consumers.

17.       Rising cost of oil and other commodity imports contributed to a sharp increase in
imports,puttingpressure on the balance ofpayments. Oil imports are estimated to have exceeded
forecast levels by about US$500 million in FY05. Fueled also by sharp increases in demand for

     World Bank and AsDB estimates put total losses to assets at about $2 billion, or 3% percent o f GDP.


                                                    4

intermediate goods and capital machinery due to increased domestic activity and higher rice and
wheat imports to cover shortages caused by floods, imports grew by 21 percent in FY05. Export
growth, too, has remained buoyant, although less so than import growth, with 14percent growth in
FY05. The current account slipped into a deficit equaling 0.9 percent o f GDP, compared with
small surpluses in FY03 and FY04. Foreign concessional lending and other capital flows broadly
offset the current account deficit, leaving gross official reserves unchanged at around $3 billion,
although import coverage slipped to less than three months at end-June 2005.

18.      Monetary policy has tightened appropriately in response to emerging inflationary and
exchange rate pressures.         Rapid credit expansion, strong domestic demand, rising world
commodity prices, and the effects o f the flood on food prices increased inflationary pressures in
late-2004 and early-2005. Inflation in FY05 reached 6.5 percent, compared with 5.8 percent in
FY04. Year-on-year inflation reached 7.9 percent in August 2005 - a six-year high. Bangladesh
Bank was slow to tighten monetary policy initially, but has restricted conditions considerably since
March 2005. Banks' cash reserve requirement was raised from 4 percent to 4.5 percent in March,
and again to 5 percent with effect from October 2005. One-month and three-month Treasury bill
rates have risen by 2.6 percentage points. Credit and liquidity growth has eased but remains
relatively strong.

19.      Increasing imports and demandfor foreign exchange put the taka under pressure in
early-2005. Bangladesh Bank used its reserves to support the taka almost to the limit specified in
the macroframework agreed with the IMF, but subsequently allowed the taka to depreciate and
tightened monetary conditions to stem further pressures. The taka has fallen 10 percent against the
dollar since July 2004 and 5 percent real inreal terms.

20.       The overall picture that emerges is that a buoyant economy along with rapidly rising oil
prices is creatingpressure on imports and domestic credit. Prudent demand management will be
necessary to ensure sustainability o f growth and continued macroeconomic stability. The flexible
use of monetary and exchange rate policies will need to be maintained. At the same time, efforts to
raise domestic revenues, including further increases in domestic oil prices, will need to be
strengthened.

                    I11 THEGOVERNMENT'SPOVERTY               REDUCTION      STFUTEGY

21.       The Government has recently drafted its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP),
titled "Unlocking the Potential: National Strategy for Accelerated Poverty Reduction." The
PRSP has benefited from a comprehensive participatory process, including consultations at the
regional levels with representations from a wide spectrum of the society. The Government has
ardently owned the PRSP process, welcoming the donors' interest but managing and financing the
process almost entirely on its

22.        The main national level development goals set by the PRSP are: (i)employment
generation; (ii)  nutrition; (ii)maternal health; (iv) quality education (at primary, secondary, and
tertiary levels); (v) sanitation and safe water; (vi) criminal justice; (vii) local governance; and (viii)
monitoring. Inaddition to the still daunting levels o f income poverty, the PRSP raises the profile
on women's advancement, rising inequality, and making governance work especially for the poor.
Insetting these goals, it acknowledges Bangladesh's encouraging development recordbut cautions


     These are preliminary observations of the DSC team. A systematic assessment of the PRSP will be
     carried out in the Bank-Fund Joint Staff Advisory Note (JSAN) that will be shared with the Board at a
     later date.


                                                     5

against complacency and slippages in areas where progress has been good.           Recognizing the
growing significance o f the meso-level economy (rural market centers), it advocates greater policy
attention to it for growth and employment generation.             It rightly emphasizes addressing
implementation problems and capacity constraints within the Government: particularly by
improving (i) budgetary framework for development spending, (ii) quality o f the civil
                the                                                         the
service, and (iii)the flow o f information.

23.      Espousing a broad definition o f poverty, including human deprivations in income, food
security, quality o f life, and vulnerability, the PRSP seeks to address it through a strategically
prioritized policy framework that has pro-poor growth, human development, and governance as its
main pillars. It aims to unlock the full potential o f the country through a sensible mix o f public
action, private initiatives, and community mobilization. Thepriority policy areas identifled in the
PRSP are: (i)macroeconomic stability; (ii)critical sectors for pro-poor growth, including rural,
agricultural, informal and SMEs, rural electrification, roads, and telecommunications; (iii)safety
nets for the poor and the vulnerable; (iv) human development o f the poor; (v) participation and
empowerment o f the poor; (vi) good governance; (vii) improved delivery o f basic services; and
(viii) environmental sustainability.

    IV     POLICY REFORMS SUPPORTED BY THEDEVELOPMENT                  SUPPORT CREDIT SERIES

24.      Improving governance has been at the center-stage of the reform efforts supported by
the DSCs.       Consistent with the strong emphasis on governance-related reforms in the
Government's PRSP and with the governance-focused theme o f the ongoing CAS, the DSCs have
supported: strengthening o f core governance functions, focusing on public sector reforms,
macroeconomic stability, economic deregulation, and checks and balances on public entities, and;
reduction in sectoral governance impediments to improved investment climate and provision o f
infrastructure.

25.      Already, a number of key measuressupported by the DSCs have had apositive impact in
reducing opportunitiesfor rent seeking and state capture (Table 1). Reforms in core governance
areas such as public administration, tax administration, procurement, financial management will
have long-term benefits, as will the Anti-Comption Commission once it i s fully effective. Related
sectoral reforms have sought to strengthen governance in banlung, health, education, and SOEs,
especially energy. The activities o f the NCBs, previously a huge source o f mis-governance -
through directed credit and inefficient lending practices, for instance - have been curtailed through
tighter MOUs. The culture o f non-payment to energy companies has been another root o f systemic
corruption. Recent successful efforts to reduce the stock o f arrears to power companies and
improved collection o f current bills have addressed this partially. Nonetheless, a huge unfulfilled
agenda remains and a comprehensive anti-corruption strategy backed by sustained political
commitment i s very much needed. Also, given that the underlying institution building process i s
necessarily a long-term and complex one, realism i s warranted in setting expectations: local
capacity is weak and the Bank and the rest o f the donor community will need to stay engaged and
provide support over a longperiod to see the process through.




                                                   6

                                           Table 1: Governance Focus of Reforms

                                                               Sectnral
Banking        Strengthenedprudential regulationsand bankingsupenision;           NPL ratio fell from 27%to 18%inNCBs and from
               enhanced competition; initiatedprivatizationofNCBs.                16%to under 3% inprivatebanks betweenFY98 and
                                                                                  FY04
                                                                                  ReductioninNCB's share of totalbank assets - from
                                                                                  54% inFY98 to 40% inFY04
Power and      Tightenedbilling and collectioninthe power sector                  BetweenFY02 andFY04, systems loss inpower
Energy         EsiablishedEnergyRegulatoryComkssion                               sector fell from 30% to 24%, collection efficiency
               Reducedpower sector systemlosses through theft reduction and       improved from 84% to 99%, and collectionto
               better maintenance                                                 generationratio from 59% to 74%.
                                                                                  Arrears to public utilities fell from 9 months
                                                                                  equivalent inFY02 to 7 mths inFY04 and further to
                                                                                  about 4.1months inFY05
State          Role of SOEs inmanufacturingsubstantially curtailed, also          Number ofmanufacturing SOEs reducedfrom 121in
Enterprises    reducingprospects for politicalpatronage andbusinesspractices      FYOl to 92 in FY04.
               favoring vested interests                                          60% reduction inmanufacturingSOE losses since
                                                                                  2001
Education      Expendituretracking initiated                                      Reducedscope for rent seeking from thesesources
               Creation ofNationalTeachers Registrationand Certification
               Authority cleared. NTRCA shouldimproveteacher quality and
               reduce scope for bribery duringrecruitment
               Textbook productionat the secondarylevel is beingprivatized
               Most of deliveryof secondary school educationcontractedout to
               private sector andNGOs
Social Safety   Social safety programsbeingmonetized.                              Surveys show this has reducedleakage

Regulatory       Sharply cut back domesticinvestment regulations including         Lower rent seekingopportunities for the officials
Reforms          number of clearances
Telecom         EstablishmentofBangladeshTelecom Regulatory Commission             Greater competitionhas improvedaccess andlowered
               has imurovedregulationof telecom
                               -                                                  rent seekingfrom public sector telephoneauthority
                Deregulationof wireless telephone                                  Landlinedensity has grownby 5090since 2002 and
                                                                                  densitv of cellular coverage i s doubling each year.
Trade           Virtual eliminationof QRs                                          Removedone importantsource of rent through
                                                                                   discretionary granting and exemptions

Financial       PAC is functional andsteps takento introduce greater               By December2004, PAC hadreducedthe backlogof
Management      transparency inpublic accounting, tightenauditing, and strengthen  outstandingaudit objections against ministriesby 20
                the C&AG's office. PACrecommendationsare regularly                 percent
                communicatedto the line Ministries                                 Audit committees setup in22 ministries
Procurement     Procurementregulationsissued                                       Better compliance ofprocurementprocedures
                Annualprocurement audit by independentconsultantmade              (procurementplanning, method, etc.) as indicatedin
                mandatory                                                         the independentprocurementreview report
                Provisionfor independentreview mechanismintroduced for             Procurementprocessing time improved. E.g.% of
                handlingbidders' protests                                          contracts awardedafter 12months loweredfrom 40%
                                                                                   to 10%
Tax             Modernizationof the NationalBoardof Revenueinitiated. Large        Full implementationof tax administrationreforms will
Administration taxpayers units for incometax andVAT and Central Intelligence       helpreducecorruptionfrom this major source
and Customs    Cell established
                Streamlining of customs proceduresthrough the introductionof
               the ASYCUDA++ system
Public          Mandatorv submissionof income tax returnsby Govt. emuloyees        Full compliancewill helpreducecorruption
Administration

Anti             IndependentAnti-Corruption Commission established                 Effective implementationwill establishamajor
Corruption                                                                         institution to monitor andpreventcorruption
Legal and        Casemanagementinformation systembeinginstalled                    An effectivelegal andjudicial systemis critical to
Judicial         AlternativeDispute Resolutionmechanismsadopted                    enforce contracts, settle disputesand create effective



Anti-Money      Money LaunderingPrevention Act, 2002, enacted                      Tighter control on flow of criminal fund
Laundering



                                                                   7

                              Pillar 1: StrengtheningCore Governance

26.      Improving core governance remains a high priority and a critical challenge for
Bangladesh. There are several core areas o f governance that the Bank i s actively engaging the
GOB on, including: (i)     improving public expenditure and financial management; (ii) strengthening
revenue mobilization; (iii)maintaining macroeconomic stability; (iv) trade liberalization; (v)
economic deregulation; (vi) reforming public administration; (vii) establishing an independent
Anti-Corruption Commission; and (viii) reforming the civiljustice system. These are discussed, in
turn,below.

27.      Other, non-economic, core governance areas such as law and order and political
governance, no doubt critical in ensuring sustainability and improved efficacy o f economic and
social sector reforms, lie outside o f the Bank's mandate and expertise. For these important reform
areas, the Bank i s relying on its bilateral partners to push forward the agenda. The ongoing joint
CAS being prepared together with Dm,ADB, and Japan should help further cement the Bank's
partnership with other donors on these matters.

28.      The donor community and other development partners have expressed concern about
reported large-scale irregularities in election financing, suggesting that this could likely be a
major source o f highlevels o f corruption inBangladesh, as has been the case inmany other parts o f
the world. While Bangladeshi law and regulations require the declaration o f assets and liabilities
by candidates standing for elected office, one particular concern is reportedly the limited
enforcement o f these laws and regulations and making such declarations public. Recognizing this,
the Government has agreed to review the implementation o f the relevant legislation and policies,
recommendnecessary actions, and make the review public.

  ImprovingTransparencyandEfficiencyof PublicExpenditureandFinancialManagement

29.      The Government is strengthening public expenditure planning within a medium-term
budgetaryframework, as well as essentialfinancial management and accountabilityfunctions of
accounting, auditing, expenditure tracking and procurement.             It has initiated institutional
changes in budget planning by issuing new annual budget guidelines on a pilot basis that contain
elements o f more strategic budgeting practices, better fiscal discipline and better coordination o f
recurrent and capital budgets. They provide unified envelopes for recurrent and capital spending
for three years ahead for four ministries in preparation o f the FY06 budget. Previously, in these
four ministries, the revenue (recurrent spending) budget and the development (capital) budget,
known as the Annual Development Program (ADP), were prepared sequentially for each year, with
little integration and largely in the absence o f a strategic medium-term framework or policy
orientation. The Government plans to extend the new system to up to 6 more ministries for the
FY07 budget, coveringabout 50 percent o f the total budget.

30.      The Government has sought to improve the management of development spending and
someprogress has been made. For instance, the estimated time needed to complete ADP projects
at current funding levels has been reduced from almost 10 years in FY02 to around 7 years,
although this i s still higher than the Planning Commission's target o f five years. However, several
challenges remain. Although the Government has streamlined preparation o f ADP projects,
inadequate prioritization and weak appraisal have been reflected in approval o f an unduly large
number o f projects. This has been accompanied by under-funding, a fragmentation o f resources
and a backlog of incomplete projects. ADP spending each year has typically fallen some 10
percent short o f the budget target. The number o f outstanding and new approved projects at 856
remains high, and the number o f unapproved projects was increased in the FY06 budget to 369,



                                                   8

compared to 330 in FY05. It will take some time for the new practices to be fully institutionalized
and address the issues o f over-programming in development planning.

3 1.     The landscape of procurement has been reshaped during the course of the last several
years and the Government hasput inplace a uniform procurement policy in October 2003for all
public sector entities across the country, with provisions of substantially reduced layers in
procurement approval process. Plus, a procurement tracking system through M I S has been
established.   The new regulations have increased awareness among the contracting/ business
community and contributed significantly towards harmonizing donors'               and Government
procurement procedures.       The Bank and other key development partners have accepted the
regulations for all local procurement.       However, there are still a number o f cross-cutting
governance, institutional, and implementation issues including inadequate enforcement o f
regulations, delays in award, allegations o f fraud and corruption, and political interference. For
further improvement, the following planned actions are notable: (i)   a new draft procurement law,
including provision o f concessional contracting, i s expected to be approved by the Cabinet shortly
before being presented to the Parliament, and (ii)    a second reform project with provisions of e-
procurement, compliance monitoring, and social accountability i s under preparation.

32.      Fiscal accountability and transparency are being improved. Recent initiatives include:
(a) computerization o f accounts and strengthening o f the Controller General o f Accounts (CGA)
system with production o f meaningful monthly accounts disaggregated by administrative unit,
economic code and function with a lag of five weeks compared to the previous six months; (b) the
production by the Finance Division o f the Ministry o f Finance (MoF) o f monthly fiscal reports
based on these monthly accounts; (c) the provision o f a Chief Accounting Officer (CAO) to each
ministry and changes in the organization structure o f country-wide pay-points accounting offices
under the CGA; (d) the improved reporting o f fiscal data with Bangladesh being included for the
first time in the Government Finance Statistics (GFS) Year book; and (e) separation o f accounting
from auditing by placing the CGA under the administrative control o f M o F instead o f the
Comptroller and Auditor General (C&AG). Further, the backlog of audit objections, identified by
the Parliamentary Accounts Committee has been reduced. By December, 2004, outstanding audit
objections against ministries had been reduced by 26 percent. Implementation o f the Report on
observance o f Standards and Codes (ROSC) - Accounting and Auditing recommendations i s also
underway.      Value for money audits (performance audits) are being introduced and audit
committees have been setup in 22 ministries to resolve outstanding issues. In addition, current
progress of the policy actions agreed duringDSC I1i s shown inthe matrix.

33.      Tracking studies to better monitor expenditures. The Government has undertaken three
expenditure tracking surveys, supported by the UK-DfID and the Netherlands. Interim results of
the Secondary Education survey suggest that the public financial resources reached schools as
intended, but there was evidence o f mismanagement in the authorization o f spending.          Pupil
attendance, based on a headcount organized by the survey, was 41 percent, compared with 59
percent according to the registers.      Teacher attendance, however, was not as low as some
alternative recent estimates, although the observed quality o f teaching was poor even among
extensively trained teachers. Interimresults o f the Health and Family Planning survey suggest that
DGHealth outpatient services are well used and that service utilization is pro-poor. The efficacy
of drugs dispensed, however, was compromised by the poor storage as well as by the low
proportion o f patients who received written instructions on how to take their medications. The
average level o f clinical knowledge o f key health workers was well below acceptable standards and
varied between different individuals with the same designation. Buildinginfrastructure was often
poor, and the lack of medical equipment raised concern over how union health centers could




                                                  9

undertake essential diagnosis. Findings like these could be used to establish benchmarks against
which to track the effectiveness o f service delivery over time by follow up surveys.

34.      Looking ahead, the Government plans to address a number o f important gaps in the
financial management area that were identified in a recent joint review by the GOB,DfID, and the
Bank. These include:
      Strengthening o f the linkages between the PRSP and the MTBF.
      Enhancement or replacement o f the UNCTAD system in the external debt management
      section in ERD with the tools and processes being developed in the newly set up Resource
      and Debt Management Wing inFinance Department.
      A clear road map for adoption o f international public sector accounting standards with full
      cash basis and moving toward full accrual.         This will also require putting in place an
      integratedfinancial management information system linkingall aspects o f PFM.
      Further strengthening o f the C&AG's         office to enable it to carry out financial and
      performance audits adhering to international standards.
      Preparation o f a detailed study o f the methodology, accounting treatment and probity o f
      government commercial accounts to meet international standards or equivalent.
      Improvement o f the financial management operations in Railways, Telephone & Telegraph,
      and Postal Accounts
      Simplification and improved transparency o f the public sector payroll rules and setting up o f
      an accurate staffregister linked to an appropriate human resource management system.
      Cleaning up o f the pension and provident funds records and putting in place a reliable
      accounting system facilitating easy access by the employees.

Strengthening and Modernizing Revenue Mobilization

35.      The NBR has launched a medium-term modernization strategy to improve low revenue
yields which are depriving the Government of resources neededfor key social programs. Tax
revenues account for only 8 percent o f GDP and Bangladesh relies unduly on highly protective
trade taxes. The Government undertook at the start o f the PRGF program with the IMF to increase
revenue as a share o f GDP by 0.5 percent a year, but the out-turn for FY2005 at 8.3 percent o f GDP
was little changed from FY2003.         Poor taxpayer services, lack o f transparency in collection,
inadequate audit and enforcement, and protracted taxpayer disputes have all hampered revenues.
The NBR suffers from ineffective human resource policies and lack o f authority and autonomy to
tackle those, and a weak compensation system and lack o f training.           Renewal o f some tax
exemptions inthe FY06budget i s likely to adversely affect the tax collection efforts.

36.      Initial NBR reforms are already underway."          InNovember 2003, the Large Taxpayer
Unit (LTU) for income tax was restructured along functional lines (taxpayer services, revenue
collection, accounting, audit, and enforcement).      It was also given responsibility for collecting
withholding taxes.      Steps were taken to strengthen filing and payment procedures, improve
detection o f stop-filers, increase capacity for conducting audits, and introduce computerization o f
certain LTUoperations. InOctober 2004, the NBR established an LTU for value added tax (VAT)
and i s in the process o f operationalizing it. A Joint Commissioner has been appointed but other
staff are temporary or part-time, pending approval o f the LTU's organogram by the Ministry o f
Establishment. To improve enforcement and expedite the processing o f appeals, two special High
Court tax benches have been established. In addition, to discourage fraudulent appeal cases, the


lo  The Bank's Economic Management Technical Assistance Project is supporting the implementation o f
    initial stages of NBR's modernization plan.


                                                   10

Government has increased the amount that taxpayers will have to pay upfront from 15 percent to
50 percent o fthe difference between the contested and admitted amount.

EnsuringContinuedMacroeconomicStability

37.       The Government's medium-term macroeconomic framework commits to fiscal and
monetaryprudence and deepening structural reforms. The framework envisages acceleration in
GDP growth from 5.4 percent in FY05 to 6.5 percent in FY06 and 7.0 percent in FYO8 (Annex
Table 1). Such faster growth would require a significantly higher level of investment and more
efficient investment decisions than inthe past. Achievement o f these, in turn, assumes acceleration
inthe paceofstructural reforms to tackle supply-side bottlenecks.

38.       Fiscal policy aims to finance social development and key public investment while
containing the deficit and maintaining debt sustainability.               The Government's success in
containing the central government deficit at around 3.5 percent o f GDP partly through curbs on
wasteful expenditures, coupled with greater reliance on concessional external financing, has
improved the prospects for fiscal sustainability."      A relatively high60 percent o f total expenditure
i s on infrastructure, education, health, social safety nets and rural development (Annex Table 2).
Incontrast, defense expenditure remains lower than most of the region. Interest payments on
government debt have stabilized at less than 2 percent o f GDP. The level o f public expenditure,
however, at nearly 14 percent o f GDP, remains low by global standards, reflecting weak revenues
and low implementation capacity.'* The quality o f expenditures at project level remains a concern.

39.       Public debt is currently sustainable although concernsare emerging. Public sector debt,
including contingent liabilities, i s manageable at about 60 percent o f GDP, more than half o f which
i s on concessional terms from external official creditors.          Longer-term risks to sustainability,
however, arise mainly from weak revenues and escalating energy SOE losses. The recent increases
in global oil prices were only partially passed through to consumers in Bangladesh, resulting in
losses to the BPC o f Tk 28 billion ($430 million) equal to around 0.7 percent o f GDP in FY05.
BPC's mounting debt i s estimated at Tk 68 billion, and annual interest cost exceeds Tk 5 billion
($80 million). This i s not sustainable over the long run. Although external debt i s relatively low        -
at about 33 percent o f GDP and that too mostly on concessional terms - because o f modest export
levels, the country faces some medium-term liquidity risks: the net present value o f future debt
servicing obligations to current exports ratio stands at about 150percent.

40.       Monetary policy has broadly supported growth while doing a good job of containing
inflation and managing exchange market transactions. Bangladesh Bank allowed interest rates
to ease during2004 to support credit growth to the private sector, in light o f ample liquidityand a
reduction in administered interest rates, e.g. on National Savings Certificates. However, as noted
inpara 18, the latter part ofFY05 was a testing periodfor BangladeshBankpartly due to pressures
on the BOP and increases ininflation. The authorities will need to be vigilant and ready to counter
any undue pressures promptly through action on interest rates and exchange rate flexibility,
especially inthe absence o f a significant foreign exchange reserve cushion.

`'    A recent review by the National Pay Commission concluded with a recommendation of an across-the-
      board 50 percent increase in public sector salaries. The full cost of implementing this i s estimated at
      about Tk 59 billion. A five-member committee headed by the Cabinet Secretary subsequently reviewed
      the proposal and concluded that its full implementation would jeopardize macroeconomic sustainability.
      The Government has accepted the committee's recommendation o f a more modest increase of about Tk
      40 billionto be phasedover three years.
l2    Total tax and revenue collection rates remain among the lowest inthe world at 8 and 10percent o f GDP.


                                                      11

ReducingOpportunitiesfor Corruptionby Reducingand StreamliningTradeRestrictions

41.      Trade liberalization has been advanced with a reduction in and rationalization of
customs duties and near elimination of trade-related quantitative restrictions, although
expanded use of para tarvfs offset this partly. The average rate o f customs duty was lowered
from 21 percent in FYOl to 15.4 percent in the FY06 budget, and the top rate was lowered from
37.5 percent to 25 percent. The number o f non-zero customs tariff rates was reduced from four to
three. This progress, however, was partly offset by an increase in the protective incidence o f para
tariffs which now account for about 40 percent o f total protection, compared to only 12 percent in
the mid-1990s.      The net result has been a reduction in average nominal protection from 29.4
percent in FY02 to 26.5 percent in FY05. Substantial progress has been made with removing
quantitative restrictions (QRs). The number o f items subject to QRs was reduced from 122 in
FYOl to 15 inthe FY06 budget, and all butthree trade-related QRswere eliminated.13 Removal o f
longstanding banon a wide range o f textile imports has beenparticularly important.

42.      The remaining trade liberalization agenda is substantial - Despite significant trade
liberalization in the 199Os, Bangladesh still has the highest level o f trade protection in South Asia
and among the highest amongst developing countries as a whole. High tariffs and duties on
imported inputs discourage export diversification and constrain growth.           A cumbersome and
inefficient duty drawback system for non-garment manufacturers seeking to reclaim duties paid on
imported inputs for export hinders their competitiveness.          So, stronger efforts to accelerate
liberalization of the economy are essential to achieve the Government's growth goals set out in the
PRSP. A pre-announced program o f reductions in customs duties and, especially, para-tariffs to
bringBangladesh inline with the developing country average within five years would give industry
a clear signal and allow companies to plan their investments.

Streamliningand ReducingScopefor Discretioninthe RegulatoryEnvironment

43.     A number of measures have been initiated to streamline the domestic regulatory
environment and reduce the scope for corruption arising from it. Regulatory reforms have
involved streamlining of process related to customs and port clearance, investment facilitation, land
registration, utilityregulation, and the financial sector. Specifically:

     0   Customs and port clearance: A noteworthy step has been the introduction o f the
         ASYCUDA++ system, involving electronic processing and traclung o f files. Further, a
         one-stop service was recently introduced at the Chittagong port to facilitate port and
         customs related paperwork, thereby shortening the time taken for clearing and also
         improving the turn around time for ships.

     0   Investment facilitation: The Board o f Investment has introduced e-government processes
         that allow on-line traclung o f various approval requests. Business registration process has
        been streamlined and further progress would come from automation at the Registrar o f
         Joint Stock Companies, work on which has already started with support from IFC's South
         Asia Enterprise Development Facility (SEDF) and AusAID.

     0   Land repistration. A Land Registration Act came into force from July 1, 2005. This will
         help reduce the scope for false and multiple registration o f land.       A pilot project to
         computerize land records has been initiated in the Demra thana o f Dhaka district. This
        project aims at simplifying the title deed requirements, puttingthe title, the location o f the


l3   GOB receivedwaivers onpoultry, eggs and salt from WTO under Article XVIII.


                                                   12

         land, and map on a single page with a11 other documents in a back-up data base. This
         follows the completion o fthe survey o f greater Dhaka by the Land Department.

    0    Utilityregulation. The BangladeshTelecom Regulatory Commission(BTRC) hasbeen set
         up, leading to rapid growth in the private telephone sector (see para 65).     The Energy
         Regulatory Commission was recently been set up and has now starting to become
         functional (para 60).

Towarda More ResponsiveandEfficientPublicAdministration

44.     A number of public administration reforms have been initiated in recent years.
Promotion policy has been improved for Class Iofficers and there i s enhanced emphasis on merit
in performance evaluation and career development. An improved training policy has been issued
and more importance i s being given to training, particularly in public sector management, for
promotion. A Career Planning and Training Wing was created in the Ministry o f Establishment in
September 2003 as a result o f which initiatives are underway to improve career planning and
effective deployment o f Class Iofficers. Further, modalities are being determined to organize
ministries around four clusters, based on types o f functions. Deliberation and preparatory work
that could lead to the development o f a senior civil service or management pool are also underway.

45.      The Government has contained employment in public administration at around 1 million,
including the central government and some staff in semi-autonomous bodies. It has left more than
100,000 sanctioned posts unfilled, mainly among support staff at Class I11and lV levels by limiting
new post creation and controlling the filling o f vacancies. The previous practice o f permanently
accommodating staff temporarily hired for projects has been streamlined a more rigorous process
of review has been put inplace. Various services are also being outsourced.

Establishingand OperationalizinganIndependentAnti-CorruptionCommission

46.      An independent Anti Corruption Commission Act was passed by the Parliament in
February 2004, providing the Commission with a mandate to prevent corrupt practices and
investigate specific offenses. Three Commissioners o f the ACC were selected inNovember 2004,
o f whom one was appointed Chairman. The Government has sanctioned creation o f an initial 536
posts to help ACC recruit essential staff and start its work. Joint measures by the Government and
the ACC itself are underway to strengthen and improve the integrity o f this interim recruitment
process. The full organogram will be finalized with the help o f ADB consultants and adopted later
inthe fiscalyear.

Reformingthe CivilJustice System

47.      Settlement of civil court cases quickens. Major reforms in the Civil Procedure Code were
made in 2003, with the objective o f modernizing court processes, reducing case backlog,
expediting dispute settlement, and facilitating access to justice. These reforms facilitated different
forms o f case management, including introduction o f court annexed mediation and enforcement o f
pretrial procedures in pilot courts to weed out frivolous lawsuits. These efforts have resulted in an
increasednumber of out-of-court settlements and in quicker disposal o f court cases.

48.      The Money Loan Court Act 2003 provided money courts with exclusive jurisdiction over
credit disputes and has vastly improved the loan recovery mechanism. Creditor institutions are
now required to exercise self-help by selling collateral inpublic auction after giving due notice to
the defaulting debtors. The Act also provides for summary procedure and disposal o f cases solely



                                                  13

on the basis o f written pleadings and documentary evidence. The maximum time for case disposal
is I80 days, although most cases are settled well before that time. As a result, in the 12 months
after the new law became effective, recovery increased by over 200 percent.

 Pillar 2: ReducingSectoral Governance Impediments to Improved Investment Climate and
                                    Provision of Infrastructure

49.     A good record of implementingfirst generation reforms        -macro stability and domestic
deregulation in particular - has enabled good economicgrowth. The Government recognizes the
need to now deepen the structural reforms program for sustaining and accelerating growth
performance; particularly, by continuing with trade liberalization and further strengthening the
sectoral and cross-sectoral underpinnings o f the investment climate.

50.      The needfor these structural reforms to boost domestic and external competitiveness is
all the more urgent afer the dismantling of the Agreement on Textiles & Clothing (ATC) from
January, 2005, which exposes Bangladesh to competition from garment exporters previously
restricted by quotas. This poses a considerable challenge for the economy, because the garment
sector accounts for over three-quarter o f total exports, and directly employs about 2 million
workers, o f whom 90 percent are women. It i s too early to assess the long-run impact, although a
hopeful sign is that new investment and market orders continue to flow and export growth has
remained fairly robust thus far.      An important reason for this may be that Bangladesh is
competitive in the high-volume, low-margin segment o f the world market and retains preferential
access to the EUand Canadian markets due to its L D C status.

ImprovingFinancial Sector Accountability, Transparency, and Performance

51.     Improved governance of thefinancial sector, including continued restraints on lending,
strengthened loan recovery efforts and tighter supervision have reduced the market share of
NCBs and given a greater role toprivate banks. MOUs between Bangladesh Bank and the four
NCBs have set a ceiling o f 5 percent on annual growth in lending, put a limit on single borrower
exposure to 5 percent o f paid-up capital o f each bank, and set monitorable targets on cash
recoveries and cost reductions. The MOUs are to be extended beyond 2005 for Agrani and Janata
and until divestment for Sonali. The net result has been a reduction in the NCBs' share o f total
bank assets from 54 percent in 1998 to 40 percent by FY04. Their non-performing loans, net o f
provisions and collateral, fell from 27 percent in FY98 to 18 percent by end - FY04. Private banks
have strengthened considerably their financial positions and are steadily increasing their share o f
the market. Net NPLs o f private banks fell from 16 percent in 1998 to less than 3 percent by end-
FY04. The authorities' reform program in the banking sector i s being supported by IDA'S
Enterprise Growth and Bank Modernization (EGBM)project.

52.      Bangladesh Bank's regulatory powers have been further strengthened. Bangladesh
Bank has continued to align its prudential norms more closely with international standards and
enforce these more strictly. Its capacity to cany out its regulatory authority i s being strengthened
under the Bank's Central Bank Strengthening project. NCBs and development banks were brought
under Bangladesh Bank supervision in FY03.           The minimum risk-weighted capital adequacy
requirement for banks was increased from 8 percent to 9 percent and the minimum capital
requirement increased from Tk 400 million to Tk 1 billion (US$17 million). At the same time,
limitations on dividendpayout were tightened and special audits based on I A S were conducted for
all NCBs. InMarch 2005, BangladeshBank tightened loan classification with the introduction o f a
"Special Mention" category for loans overdue by 90 days or more but less than 180 days, which
was recently followed with the announcement o f the first phase o f provisioning against the Special



                                                   14

Mention accounts. Banks will not be allowed to accrue interest into their income on such loans.
Further, the exposure limit for private banks for a single borrower has been reduced fiom 50
percent o f a bank's capital to 35 percent (5 percent inthe case o f the NCBs).

53.     Bangladesh Bank has also introduced measures to improve banks' corporate
governance. These include: (i)tightening "Fit and Proper" tests for bank CEOs and introducing
these for bank directors; (ii)making it mandatory for banks to have independent directors represent
the interests of depositors; (iii) limiting the maximum number of directors for a bank to 13; (iv)
limitingdirectorship of banks to two consecutive terms o f three years each; (v) allowing only one
director from each shareholding family; (vi) requiringthe establishment o f an independent Audit
Committee o f each bank's board to assist in financial reporting, audit, and internal control; and
(vii) requiring significantly enhanced annual financial disclosures including publication o f audited
financial statements innewspapers and ensuringtheir availability for public view inbank branches.
Riskmanagement guidelines coveringcredit, market and operational risks have been introduced.

54.     Bangladesh Bank has enforced its prudential regulations more strictly. Some 65 bank
directors and chairmen have lost their directorships for loan default, insider lending and other
violations. Five managing directors of banks have been removed since 2000 for allowing their
banks to be engaged in irregular or illegal transactions. The guidelines on early warning system
and problem bank categories have been strengthened, followed by the institutionalization o f a
Systems Audit of banks with a risk rating (viz., core risk areas) after completion o f an inspection.
Bangladesh Bank has also initiated audit o f IT transactions and IT security for banks, and 25 banks
have been audited so far.

55.      The Government has further strengthened NCBs' management with the aim of
improving their operational performance, and preparing them for divestment. Management
experts funded under EGBM are supporting the restructuring and corporatization o f three NCBs -
Rupali, Agrani, and Janata - before they are divested. Rupali Bank has been brought to the point
o f divestment. A key part o f the strategy for resolving NCBs i s that they should restructure their
operations, including credit allocation, cost controls, branch closures and staff rationalization.
Progress with these has been slow, despite the appointment o f consultants and needs to be
accelerated.

56.      The Government aims to strengthen the role and accountability of management and
consultant teams in Agrani, Sonali and Janata.            The Minister o f Finance will share the
consultants' reports with the NCBs' boards to enable them to provide timely and constructive
comments. The consultants will also need to be able to engage with the senior and middle
managers o f NCBs to obtain buy-in for their recommendations, and be given a proactive rather
than reactive role in the restructuringprocess. The high-powered Steering Committee should meet
more frequently to oversee the entire process and take key decisions with regard to N C B
restructuring and divestment. NCBs' managements and consultant teams should be given specific
and monitorable performance indicators against which their performance can be measured and
evaluated. The relationship and interaction between the advisors and the managers in the NCBs
need to be changed to ensure that the former's recommendations are accepted and implemented.
The Government has agreed that in future NCB managements, their consultants, the Finance
Division, the Bangladesh Bank Governor and IDA will meet quarterly to review progress.




                                                   15

ReducingState Role in State-owned Enterprisesand StrengtheningTheir Financial
Performance

57.      Financial losses of manufacturing SOEs have continued to fall, and the Government
has reduced its rolefurther. The Government has focused on partial divestment and withdrawal
o f direct and implicit budgetary support. Manufacturing SOEs have cut their losses by 60 percent
since 2001, including a further 10 percent fall in FY2005 (Figure 1).      Despite the politically
charged nature of the reform, the Government reduced the number o f manufacturing SOEs from
121 in FYOl to 92 in FY04 and the employment level in these from 134,000 to 83,000. Further
progress on privatization was made in FY05, with successful privatization o f six SOEs and
approval o f the process for five others. Non-manufacturing SOEs, not including the BPC, recorded
a profit for the third consecutive year.

                  Figure 1: Annual Losses of ManufacturingState-OwnedEnterprises

                                          Annual SOE Losses
                                            --__ - -     -                 -
                      0 51                 -




                          1997   1998   1999  2000  2001 2002 2003 2004  2005


                  Source: Ministry of Finance.

58.      In other measures, the Government has cut funding of public sector jute mills, and
consequently 12 previously loss-making jute mills are virtually non-operational due to lack o f
working capital.     In FY05, about 10,000 SOE employees chose early retirement under the
voluntary retirement scheme (VRS). The Government has put in place counseling and retraining
programs for workers availing the VRS. These programs will be managed by BRAC, the largest
local NGO. They are being funded under the Bank's Enterprise Growth and Bank Modernization
Project. The project will also track the retired workers.

Addressing GovernanceConstraintsto Infrastructure: Power, Energy, and Transport

59.       The Government has made further gradual progress in addressing key infrastructure
issues in energy, transport and communications. In the energy sector, it has adjusted prices for
petroleum products, gas and power partially in line with the framework adopted in FY03 which
linked these key prices to international prices and cost recovery. The Government has begun
unbundlingthe gas sector and developinga gas strategy. It has also started restructuringthe power
sector, improving its operational performance and seeking to enhance supply. It has made progress
after some delays in operationalizing the Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC), which will
oversee the energy sector as a whole. The Government, however, has not developed an overall
energy strategy. This has become more urgent inview o f interest from both foreign and domestic
investors wishing to take advantage o f not only Bangladesh's gas but also coal resources. In




                                                    16

transport, the Government has adopted new shipping and land transport policies.              Cellular
telecommunications, inturn, are developing rapidly - despite lagging reforms to BTTB.

60.       The Energy Regulatory Commission has started work.             An independent ERC was
established in FY04. Its coming into operation was delayed until a chairman was appointed in
April 2005, but the chairman and the two other commissioners so far appointed held their first
hearings of licensing regulation in July 2005. The Government expects to fill the two remaining
commissioner posts during FY06 and also approve the ERC's draft organogram and budget to
enable staffing o f the commission. The Commission should play a key role across the energy
sector as a whole, setting tariffs, issuinglicenses and providing regulatory oversight.

61.       Between FY2002 and FY2005, during which period international oil prices more than
doubled, domesticpetrol prices increased by about 50 percent, and the prices of kerosene and
diesel increased by almost 70percent, including 35percent during FY05. As noted in para 37,
insufficient     price adjustments have resulted in considerable financial losses for BPC and are a
major source o f macroeconomic risk. The Government, however, felt that a full pass-through o f
international price increases in line with the agreed pricing formula was politically not feasible and
risked adding to cost inflation. Domestic gas price adjustments, likewise, have lagged behind the
formula with a modest total increase o f 5.8 percent - all duringFY05. A further increase o f around
20 percent would be required to align them with the formula. Power tariffs were last adjusted in
September 2003 and the requiredadjustment in September 2004 was not camed out.

62.       Power utilities have improved operating efficiency and reduced arrears. System losses
fell from 28 percent in FY2002 to less than 24 percent in FY2004. (See Table 2.) Collection
efficiency also rose slightly, so that collection increased from 70 percent o f generation to 75
percent. Arrears to major power utilities companies have been reduced, from an equivalent o f 8
months in FY03 to 4 months in FY05. This reflects a major drive by the Government to ensure
that public entities pay their electricity bills, coupled with utilities' more aggressive efforts to
collect bills owed by private customers. The Government has decided to write-off the arrears o f
the closed SOEs but hopes to recover at least part o f these arrears fiom future sales proceeds. The
Government has employed consultants to draft a financial recovery plan for the power sector which
should provide the basis for further action.

                          Table 2: BangladeshPower Sector Performance Indicators

                                FY 99   FY 00  FY 01   FY 02   FY 03    FY 04   Dec-04   Jun-05
       System Loss              30.3%   29.0%  28.4%   28.1%   25.4%    23.6%
       Collection Efficiency    84.3%   90.6%  93.0%   97.8%   97.2%    98.6%
       Coil. Generation         58.8%   64.3%  66.5%   70.3%   72.5%    75.4%
       Ratio

       Arrear (in Mill Tk)      20,715  23,736 26,231 28,257   30,045  30,061    20,813     19,913
       h e a r (in Eqv,           9.34    9.48   9.16    8.86    8.07    6.95      4.48        4.1
       Months)
          Source: Government of Bangladesh

63.        The transfer of linesfrom BPDB to the better managed Rural Electrification Board has
recently speeded, which should further reduce system loss. The Government agreed in FY2002
that 9,047 km o f lines would be transferred from BPDB to REB in three phases. The process
stalled during the second phase, however, after about 7,000 k m s had been transferred due to
opposition from BPDB labor unions and various litigations. More recently, the line transfers have
restarted after the courts vacated most o f the injunctions against them. An additional 1,500 k m s o f



                                                    17

lines have been transferred since June 2005. The Government expects to complete in FY06 the
agreed line transfers that are not facing litigation.

64.      The Government has initiated measures to improvepower supplies and reduce present
and prospective shortages. Demand for power i s growing at about 8 percent a year but increases
in generation capacity remain largely stalled. Several previous attempts to install power plants
both in the public and private sector did not succeed. As a partial measure to address the supply
constraints, the Government i s developing a policy to enable private companies to supply power to
the gnd from captive power plants. It i s also considering engaging the private sector in small
power generation schemes and i s accordingly revising its small power generation policy. The
Government i s finalizing a least cost generation expansion plan with support from the ADB which
i s expected to be finalized by November 2005.            It seeks to effectively follow the Public
Procurement Regulations (2003), Private Power Generation Policy (1996), and Private Sector
Infrastructure Guidelines (2004) to allow competition and transparency while acquiring this
generation capacity. The Bank will support the power sector through financial assistance for the
Siddhirganj pealung power plant (120 MW simple cycle turbine) that will complement an ADB
investment in a further two turbines. The Government will contract out the O&M o f this power
plant to secure proper operations, maintenance and management o f the asset, and full development
o f the generation financing strategy. The preparation o f generation financing strategy would be
fundedby the Bank supportedPower Sector DevelopmentTechnical Assistance Project.

65.      The Government is also moving ahead with reforms in key infrastructure areas such as
transport and telecommunication. Intransport, the Government endorsed the National Shipping
Policy and National Land Transport Policy, an Integrated Multimodal Transport Policy, and
established a Transport Sector Coordination Wing. It also liberalized the domestic civil aviation
market to allow private competition against the national airline, Biman. The construction o f a new
container terminal inside the Chittagong port has started and its operations will be concessioned to
the private sector. Intelecommunications, improved sector outcomes have resulted from important
initiatives by the Bangladesh Telecommunication Regulatory Commission (BTRC) and other
sectoral reforms. For instance, landline teledensity has grown by over 50 percent since 2002 and
the cellular teledensity i s more than doubling each year. Besides the five cellular phone licenses,
BTRC has issued licenses to 10 fixed line operators. An interconnection regime i s in place and
BRTC i s now worlung on spectrum management and other regulatory issues including tariffs,
Progress would have been even more remarkable but for the delays in the restructuring o f the
government-owned Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Board (BTTB). BTTB lacks financial
and operational autonomy and i s unable to meet demand and provide quality services. The BTRC,
too, faces important institutional challenges despite its relative effectiveness so far.

                                   Pillar 3: Empowering the Poor

ImprovingGovernanceof SocialService Delivery

66.      Delivery of essential social service delivery continues to be strengthened with the
adoption o f programmatic approaches in health and education, sustained emphasis to the sector in
the budget, and continued NGO-Government partnerships that have proved effective in the past.
There i s a common understanding that the next generation o f reforms would need to focus on
strengthening the institutional framework for service delivery along with increased social sector
spending.

67.      In the education sector, the Government has launched several reforms - that the
development partners, including the Bank, are actively supporting - to address the problems o f



                                                    18

poor quality and weak accountability. A t the primary education level, a multi-donor group that
includes the Bank is supporting the Ministry o f Primary and Mass Education's efforts to implement
the Primary Education Development Project I1(PEDP 11) which aims to strengthen access, and
improve quality and efficiency o f primary education. At the secondary level, the Ministry o f
Education has finalized a medium-term framework that includes targets related to quality
improvements, strengthening o f governance, financing, and enhanced use o f ICT, and policy
measures and actions to achieve these. Similarly, in the area o f vocational education and training
and higher education the Government is developing options aimed at enhancing the relevance,
quality and cost-effectiveness, as well as developing greater linkages with the private sector.
Furthermore collaboration between Gob and NGOs in the education sector i s increasing      - GOBhas
recently begun piloting a project which aims to help out o f school children receive primary
education, with NGOs being key facilitators.         This collaboration will enhance Bangladesh's
chances o f achieving the MDGs inthe education sector.


68.     The Government has undertaken a number o f measures to improve the governance o f the
education system. Major steps include:
        At the secondary level, school subsidies have been linked to performance criteria and
         schools not meeting these have had their subsidies suspended. At the same time, a pilot
        program i s setting up secondary schools in 60 o f the most disadvantaged and underserved
         areas to ensure that these do not suffer because o f the stricter criteria;

        The process o f registration o f schools and their eligibility to receive public subsidies i s
        being contracted to competitively selected private institutions who have the capacity to
        undertake this task;
         Community participation in school management i s being enhanced with the inclusion o f
        more community representativesin school management committees;

        To improve the information and M&E systems, pilot surveys to track performance and
         expenditures have been completed and plans are being developed to mainstream these;

         Information on examination outcomes and school performance are being disseminated
        widely to stakeholders;

         Another major step has been the clearance o f the establishment o f a National Teacher
         Registration and Certification Authority (NTRCA). The NTRCA will screen and certify a
        pool o f individuals eligible to be hired as teachers in secondary and higher secondary
         schools and all recognized schools will need to choose from this pool. This would help
         strengthen the transparency o f the hiringprocess;

         The National Curriculum and Textbook Board, responsible for curriculum development
         and textbook production both at primary and secondary levels, has been restructured with
         clear demarcation in the functions o f the curriculum and textbook wings. Textbook
        production at the secondary level i s also being privatized, leading to a significant reduction
         inscope for rent-seekingandimprovementsinthe quality.

         Furthermore, a means-tested stipend program i s being piloted to attract poor girls into
secondary schools. Similar measures are also being taken at the primary level: For instance PEDP
I1aims to increase access in underserved areas through enhanced collaboration with NGOs and
provide stipends to 40 percent o f students from the poorest families to attract them into primary
education. At both the primary and secondary levels, greater attention i s also being paid to teacher
training.



                                                   19

70.      The health sector has seen some impressive achievements, mainly as a result o f the
effective partnership among the Government, NGOs, and donors. Still, the sector remains beset
with weak governance, including lack o f accountability o f service providers and inequitable public
sector interventions which hinder access, especially by the poor. Policymakers have paid little
attention to non-public sector providers despite the fact that they deliver 60-70 percent o f health
care services, particularly curative care. With some exceptions, service quality, especially in the
public sector, has deteriorated significantly and the share o f public sector spending to deliver
primary health care has declined duringthe last few years.

71.      The Government i s addressing these issues in the next phase o f the sector-wide approach
under the HNPSPprogram umbrella. The HNPSP will include accountability instruments and seek
to improve targeting. It will seek a better partnership with non-public providers via a Management
Support Agency and Performance Monitoring Agency while simultaneously aiming to strengthen
its stewardship role to ensure quality services under HNPSP at all levels o f the system.          A
Management Information System for producing credible statistical, personnel and procurement
reporting i s a priority issue for the HNPSP.

72.      Both the National Nutrition Project (NNP) and HIV/AIDS Prevention Project (HAPP)
were designed and implemented as two separate projects, parallel to HPSP because the SWAP
HPSP was not well equipped to deal with such multisectoral interventions and also provide a
special focus on these priority issues. However, results have been mixed. For instance, contracting
of NGOs took much longer than expected, and their performance o f service delivery still remains
to be determined. With the recent decision to integrate NNP into HNPSP, adequate consideration
of planning and formulation o f programs, human resources management, and budget and reporting
relationships i s required, especially to avoid interruption o f services. A more detailed program
report i s currently under preparation.

73.      Social safety nets, especially for the poor, are accorded highpriority inthe PRSP, although
an integrated approach to administering safety net programs i s still not inplace. Evaluation studies
indicate that non cash-based social safety programs in Bangladesh are plagued by large leakages.
The Government i s now monetizing some o f its larger programs in the hope o f curbing corruption
and containing transaction costs. The Food for Education program that had been plagued by high
leakages was replaced by an expanded Primary Education Stipend Program.              An estimated 7
million children benefit    from the program. Other in-kind programs such as the Food-for-Work
program and Food Aid are also being monetized. But cash-transfer programs are not inthemselves
a panacea. It i s important that monitoring systems be strengthened and adequate checks and
safeguards be put inplace.

74.      Bangladesh's constitution provides for gender and social equality in all public spheres.
Reducing gender gaps and promoting women's advancement i s also one o f the goals o f PRSP. The
policy prioritization o f gender equality in Bangladesh i s manifest in the attainment o f the MDG on
gender equality in primary and secondary enrollment.           Further, Bangladesh has ratified the
Convention on the Elimination o f All forms o f Discrimination against Women, with a few
reservations though (pertaining to marriage, divorce, and inheritance). Special clauses have been
included in family laws to give women the right to divorce and the power to stop practice o f
polygamy by husbands.          Tougher laws for preventing violence against women (VAW), e.g.,
throwing acid on women and trafficlung o f women and children, were enacted in 2003 and special
arrangements - such as interministerial task force and VAW cells in the Ministry o f Home and in
police stations -to enforce these were established in2004. Quick trial courts under these acts were
established in2004 for punishingthe perpetrators.




                                                  20

Ensuring Sustainability ofNaturalResourcesand StrengtheningInstitutions for
EnvironmentManagement

75.      The draft Country Environmental Analysis (CEA), jointly produced by the Ministry o f
Environment and Forest (MoEF) and World Bank, was discussed at a workshop help inJuly, 2005.
The CEA focuses on improving the health o f the poor, ensuring the sustainability o f the natural
resources on which they depend, and strengthening institutions for environmental management.
The CEA also examines the actions necessary to strengthen environmental management, and
identifies building the capacity o f the Department o f Environment (DOE)as essential to better
control o f the rapidly escalating urban and industrial environmental challenges. Higher priority
needs to be given to implementationo f the DoE's Strategic Plan, which focuses both on improving
governance through increased transparency in environmental decision-making, and on providing
resources to expand DoE's capacity once its quality has improved.

76.     Environmental health priorities include (i)acute respiratory infections, due largely to
exposure to smoke from biomass fuels, (ii)    diarrheal disease caused by poor sanitation, and (iii)
                                                                                                  the
threat o f arsenicosis. Estimates inthe CEA indicate that environmental factors cause about 20% o f
death and disease in Bangladesh, and the economic benefit o f reducing exposure to environmental
health risks i s equivalent to approximately 3.5% o f national income. While important efforts
meriting continued support are underway to achieve the Government's Total Sanitation goal and
provide arsenic-safe, biologically clean water, new initiatives are required to focus attention and
resources on the reduction o f exposure to indoor air pollution.

77.      Natural resource issues o f gravest concern to the poor include depletion o f open-water
capture fisheries. Although fish provide 65% o f animal protein inthe national diet, o f which some
two-thirds are from capture fisheries, most open-water fisheries are in decline and fish
consumptiono f the poorest has declined 38% inthe last ten years. Recovery and sustainable use o f
this resource will require the effective implementation o f the Government's Inland Capture
Fisheries Strategy, including measures to ensure minimumdry season flows, preserve key habitats,
and better manage access to this critical resource.

78.      While current environmental priorities for poverty reduction are largely rural, this will
change as Bangladesh's population becomes increasingly urban, and industrial production
contributes an ever-growing share o f the economy.                Already Dhaka suffers significant
contamination o f air, land and water. With 80% o f sewage untreated, and some 60,000 m' o f
untreated industrial effluent discharged annually, pollution o f Dhaka's rivers exceeds standards by
more than five times, and the economic cost o f poor water quality and drainage i s estimated at
about $670 million per year. In addition to significant investment targeted at the most cost-
effective solutions, leadership i s requiredto agree on institutionalroles inmitigating this damage.

79.      Air quality in Dhaka improved significantly with the removal o f 2-stroke 3-wheelers in
December 2002, but the benefits are being lost due to an influx o f diesel commercial vehicles,
many o f which are gross emitters o f particulate matter (PM). Annual average PM levels in 2003
were more than double the proposed health-based Bangladesh air quality standards, although other
pollutants are within the proposed standards. A Special Regulatory Order (SRO 88) introducedby
the Ministry o f Environment and Forest in March, 2002, requiring the compulsory installation o f
catalytic converters or diesel particulate filters on all vehicles, would not be effective, however, in
reducing P M emissions. Such measures would cost in excess o f US$lOO million countrywide,
without corresponding environmental or health benefits. A moratorium should be placed on the
implementation o f this SRO, which was issued non-transparently and without adequate
consultation, and an independent technical review o f its efficacy should be conducted. To better


                                                   21

address the pressing matter o f P M pollution, a time-bound action plan based on consultations with
all stakeholders should be announced to address emissions from grossly polluting diesel vehicles,
which are known to contribute disproportionately to PMpollution inDhaka.

                       V     THEBANK'SCOUNTRYASSISTANCESTRATEGY

80.      The new Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for FYO6-09, currently under preparation,
aims to align itself with the country's aspirations as laid out in the PRSP do~ument.'~The CAS
will focus on the key issue of governance as a cross-cutting theme for the two main
pillars/objectives o f the strategy: improving the investment climate and empowering the poor.
With the objective o f better leveraging its programs, the Bank will prepare the new CAS jointly
with the ADB, DflD and Japan. The four development partners together deliver between US$l-
$1.5 billion in aid to Bangladesh annually, which i s well over 80 percent o f the total development
assistance to Bangladesh. Thejoint CAS implies a common assessment o fthe PRSP, agreement on
a common set o f CAS outcomes, and a common understanding o f the strategies needed to deliver
these outcomes.      The joint CAS approach, however, maintains individual business plans and
projecUAAA pipelines for each institution, and each institution will have its own documentation,
consistent with existing requirements.

LendingActivities

81.      The Bank i s currently supporting projects in key sectors such as social and human
development, rural development, energy and infrastructure, private sector development, finance,
and environment. As of June 2005, the Bank's active portfolio included 26 projects, representing
US$2.3 billion in net commitments and US$1.5 billion in undisbursed funds. During FY04, the
Bank approved three IDA credits totaling US$407 million and four IDA grants totaling US$119
million: this brought new commitments for FY04 to US$527 million and disbursements to
US$230 million. In FY05, two adjustment credits and one investment credit were approved. The
former included the Development Support Credit I1 (US$200 million) and the Programmatic
Education Sector Adjustment Credit (US$lOO million). The $300 million Health, Nutrition and
Population Sector Program I1 credit was developed within a sector-wide approach (SWAP)
framework supported by many development partners. Further, the Bank also reallocated US$200
million from existing IDA credits to support the Government's rehabilitation and reconstruction
efforts after the devastating floods o f last year. Commitments for FY06 are expected to add up to
about US$600 million subject to the Board's approval o f the proposedDSC 111.

82.      The Bank Group also continues to be involved in providing technical and advisory
assistance to the Government in a number o f areas, including banking, energy, privatization,
taxation, tariff and trade policy, poverty monitoring and analysis, and financial management. With
IDA financing, the Government is implementing a program to strengthen Bangladesh Bank. The
Enterprise Growth and Bank Modernization Project i s supporting restructuring and eventual
divestment o f the NCBs. As part of the Economic Management Technical Assistance Program, a
TA project for the NBR will assist in its capacity building, focusing on organizational
restructuring, human resource management, development o f ICT capacity, and strengthening
customs, VAT and income tax administration, and training and research and statistics.              Inthe
critical area o f infrastructure the Bank i s helping to prepare a power sector strategy, and i s
supporting a Power Sector Development TA which includes a project preparation facility.                 In


l4   The last CAS was discussed by the Board on December 12, 2000, and a CAS Progress Report o n June
     19,2003; both endorsed four mainthrusts for Bank assistance: institutional development and governance
     strengthening, human development, rural development, and private-sector led growth.


                                                   22

addition, the Bank i s providing technical assistance to the Government for improving its
procurement systems.

Non-Lending Activities

83.      The Bank has completed a number o f economic and sector reports.               The Public
Expenditure Review (2003) and the Poverty Assessment (2003) - both prepared jointly with the
Asian Development Bank -proved valuable as inputs into the Government's I-PRSP. Inaddition,
an Investment Climate Assessment (jointly with the Bangladesh Enterprise Institute), a report on
Private Provision of Infrastructure in Bangladesh, the Development Policy Review, and
Bangladesh: Review of Public Enterprise Performance and Strategy were completed in FY03.
More recently, the Bank completed a review o f trade policies in South Asia, the Bangladesh
Development Forum Economic Update, and Promoting the Rural Non-Farm Sector in Bangladesh.
The World Bank study Attaining the Millennium Development Goals in Bangladesh: How Likely
and What Will it Take? was launched recently and a dialogue was held with economists, academics
and key policy makers.

84.      On-going work includes the Economics and Governance of                 Non-Governmental
Organizations in Bangladesh     -  in recognition of the increasing trend in contracting NGOs for
service delivery - which focuses on the implementation o f NGO activities, Government-NGO
relations, NGO impact on development outcomes, and their long-term financial sustainability.
Policy notes relating to Government compensation and employment policies, senior civil service,
transfer o f project personnel to the revenue budget, and tax administration have been completed.
The study on Strategyfor Growth and Employment, planned for delivery in FY06, will assess the
longer-tern growth challenges facing Bangladesh.          As part o f the Bank's regular public
expenditure work, a set o f policy notes are also being initiated, which will form the basis for the
Public Expenditure Review inFY06.

85.      The Bank also provides, on a regular basis, trade-related policy advice that is underpinned
by systematic analytical work. A report was also completed last year on trade policy regmes in
South Asia and an ongoing piece studies the patterns and issues arising from trade between
Bangladesh and India. The recently-completed Bangladesh Growth and Export Competitiveness
Study examined key macro- and microeconomic factors affecting Bangladesh's competitiveness
and provided specific recommendations on priority policy and institutional actions. Further, the
upcoming Bank study on the Challenges and Opportunities in a Post-MFA World: Strategic
Optionsfor SustainedExport Growth analyzes the key issues facing the Bangladesh RMG sector as
it faces a changing world scenario without quotas.

86.      The Bank has engaged the Government in an active dialogue in the area o f strengthening
accountability and transparency. The Bank and donors who are keen to support the GOBin further
strengthening public financial management are in dialogue to agree on a joint GOB-donor
integrated PFM improvement plan covering the entire PFM cycle. Analytical work by the Bank in
this area includes Report on Observance of Standards and Codes- Accounting and Auditing, an
Institutional and Governance Review, a County Financial Accountability Assessment, a County
Procurement Assessment, and Review o f the Institutional Arrangements for Public Expenditure,
Financial Management and Procurement, user surveys on the quality o f service delivery and on-
going study on assessment o f Public Sector Accounting and Auditing against international
standards.    The Bank i s currently preparing a series o f policy notes on aspects o f public
administration and governance.




                                                 23

              PROGRESSON DSC111TRIGGERS            AND PRIORITIES FOR THENEXT      PHASE

87.     During the negotiations for DSC 11, key areas were identified where it was agreed that
Government would pursue further reforms during FY05, in addition to maintaining progress under
reforms supported by DSC Iand 11. A number o f indicative triggers for DSC I11were specified in
the DSC I1Memorandum o f the President, approved by the Board inJuly 2004. The emphasis was
on outcome oriented and monitorable triggers, although three process-related triggers were
included to benefit from the additional leverage o f the DSC. These included preparation of a
Financial Reporting Act, a power sector financial restructuring plan, and a captive power policy.
The status progress against the indicative triggers i s as follows:

   i. Satisfactoryimplementationof theagreedmacroeconomicframework underthePRGF:
        Done. The IMF's PRGF remains on broadly on track, and the 3rd PRGF review was
        completed by the IMFBoard on June 29,2005.

  ii. BringRupaliBanktothePointof DivestmentbyDecember2004: Done. Thetriggerwas
        met with issuance in M a y 2005 o f Information Memorandum requesting Expressions o f
        Interest from potential strategic investors. The announcement was published in daily
        newspapers in Bangladesh, Gulf News in Dubai and The Economist. Bangladesh Bank,
        thereafter, issued a regulation in July 2005 setting out its "fit-and-proper" criteria for
        potential buyers o f NCBs, which will form the basis for the Privatization Commission's
        decision on eligible buyers.

        Implement agreed strategyfor resolution of other NCBs: Done. MOUs are inplace with
        the NCBs covering restrictions on credit growth and lending to single large borrowers,
        although measures to reduce operational costs, including staffing reductions and branch
        closures, are yet to be taken. Management teams/ consultants have been appointed to
        further strengthen the implementationarrangements to achieve desired outcomes.

 iii. PresenttoParliamentbyJune2005FinancialReportingAct,includingprovisionfor
        independent oversight Financial Reporting Council. Ongoing. Consultants have been
        selected to draft a Financial ReportingAct.

 iv.    Reduce losses of state-owned enterprises in manufacturing by at least 10percent: Done.
        Provisional data for FY05 show that manufacturing SOE losses fell by 10 percent. BCIC
        (a chemicals producer) and BJMC (a jute producer) are the two largest loss makers,
        accounting for over 90 percent o f manufacturing SOE losses. BCIC losses increased by
        about 14 percent during FY05 while BJMC losses declined by 12 percent and that o f
        BSFIC (a producer o f sugar and food products) by 58 percent.

  V.    Maintain Government arrears to the power sector at no more than 3 months of
        receivables. Reduce receivablesfrom autonomous bodies and private customers to no
        more than 6 months' bills by December 2004 and 3 months by June 2005. Substantivelv
        met. Latest estimates for June-2005 show arrears to the major power utilities at 4.1 months
        o f receivable, down from 7 months in June 2004. Government ministries' and private
        customers' arrears stood at 3.7 and 3.2 months o f receivables respectively, while semi-
        autonomous bodies' were 18 months equivalent, with the main arrears from city
        corporations, municipalities, Dhaka W A S A and jute mills. The Government has reported
        reaching an agreement with the Ministry o f LGRD that all city corporations,
        municipalities, and Dhaka W A S A would pay o f f their arrears in excess o f 3 months
        equivalent of receivables over a period o f one year, in agreed phases. Failing this, the


                                                  24

      Government will deduct equivalent amounts at source from the grants allocated to these
      entities and make concomitant adjustments to the debt servicing liabilities (DSL) o f the
      utilities. To address the arrears o f the jute mills belonging to BJMC, the Government will
      offer a loan to BJMC to enable them to clear their arrears, and, as in the case o f the
      Municipalities, the Government will make concomitant adjustments to the D S L payable to
      itself by these utilities. The Government will provide supporting data on this to the Bank
      on a quarterly basis.

 vi.  Announce timebound plan for power sector Jinancial restructuring. Ongoing.
      Consultants have been appointed to draft the power sector financial restructuring plan, and
      the drafting of the plan i s underway.

vii.  Announce policy for sale of captiveprivate power to the grid. Ongoing. Consultants have
      been appointed to draft a policy for captive power sales to the grid, and the drafting o f the
      policy i s underway.

viii. Remove all quantitative restrictions, except those on grounds of health, national
      security, religion, and environmental protection: Done. All protective QRs, except those
      covered by WTO waivers, have been removed. The number o f QRs, as a whole has been
      reduced from 60 in FY05 to 15 in the FY06 budget. Significantly, all the QRs on textiles
      were removed inJanuary 2005.

 ix.  Initiate implementation of modernization of the National Board of Revenue, including
      strengthening thefunctions of the Board, especially audit and information technology,
      through appropriate legislation and other administrative changes: Done. The NBR i s
      strengthening its management team to help implement the modernization strategy recently
      approved by the Finance Minister. The new management team will include local and
      international change coordinators, an IT advisor, an audit advisor, and a human resource
      advisor. The relevant positions were advertised in June 2005. The NBR also plans to
      appoint shortly a new legal advisor. The related TAPP under the Bank's Economic
      Management Technical Assistance grant, which will support the strategy over the next
      three years, was recently approved by the Government.

  X.  Implement first phase of new budget process for FY06 budget, including allocation of
      resources for programs integrating recurrent and capital spending in call notices
      medium-term expenditure plans, in selected ministries in line with PRSP priorities:
      Done. The Finance Division in December 2004 sent out joint call notices inpreparation
      for the FY06 Budget, combining revenue and development spending, to the Ministries o f
      Education, Social welfare, Women and Children Affairs, and Agriculture. These four
      ministries together accounted for about 12 percent o f the FY06 total revenue and
      development budgets. The joint call notice specified a combined expenditure ceiling for
      each o f the four ministries for FY06 and probable expenditure ceilings for FY07-08. The
      ministries prepared both current and capital expenditure plans within the PRSP medium-
      term macro framework. They also listed their strategic medium-term objectives, based on
      the PRSP, and the policies and programs adopted to attain them.

 xi.  Present to Parliament a procurement law including provision for                  concession
      contracting: Substantively met. A draft procurement law has beenprepared and a Cabinet
      has approved the draft law inprinciple. The draft law has been sent for the Law Ministry's
      review, after which it will be placed before the Cabinet for its final approval and as the
      final step prior to presenting it to the Parliament.


                                                 25

 xii.    Implement new personnel management system, including extended merit-based
        promotions, transfers within clusters, revised compensation system and enhanced
         training: Done. The Government has improved the criteria for promotion o f Class 1
         officials to give greater weight to merit. Consequently, some o f the younger but more
         capable officers have been promoted, and increasingly more officials have been promoted
         to Deputy Secretary and higher levels. The Government has decided to group ministries in
         clusters to enable greater staff specialization, and a Government committee i s workmg on
         the modalities o f implementing the new system.            The recently announced phased
         compensation increases for civil servants should help narrow partly the gap with private
         sector counterparts, and new reporting requirements for income tax will make civil
         servants' non-official income more transparent.           The Government i s considering
         monetizing at least some in-kindbenefits for senior officials. A newpublic administration
         training policy was adopted in May 2003.          During the last three years 390 officials
         participated in the courses for Deputy Secretaries and Joint Secretaries organized by the
         BPATC. Participation in these training courses is taken into account in promotion
         decisions. Around 100 officials were trained under MATT Itraining program, supported
         byDFID,while some 1800more officials will be trained under MATT I1program over the
         next 7 years.

xiii.    Anti-Corruption Commission fully staffed and operational: Substantively met.             The
         viability and long-term success o f the ACC - the spirit o f this trigger - i s a complex and
         necessarily a long-term agenda, requiring a series o f credible measures by the Government.
         The Government on its part has taken a number o f actions over the past year toward this
         objective. After initial delays in getting the process moving, the Government has taken
         significant steps to operationalize the ACC and begin its staffing process.            Three
         Commissioners, including a chairman, were appointed to the ACC in November 2004,
         following passage o f the independent Anti-Corruption Commission Act by Parliament in
         February 2004. The Government has sanctioned creation o f an initial 536 posts. It has also
         agreed with the Commission that a Placement Committee o f 3 persons, including the
         Secretary o f the Commission, a senior official from the Cabinet Division (not below the
         rank o f Joint Secretary), and a representative o f an independent body will review all ACC-
         screened former B A C staff to determine their suitability for placement with the new
         commission.     The Government has agreed with the Commission on a more rigorous
         screening process going forward, including adoption o f a three common list system, i.e.
         requiring concurrence o f all three Commissioners. The Commission will submit to the
         Government for its approval a reconciled draft organogram, together with its draft
         personnel and operational rules.      In the staffs assessment, this set o f actions by the
         Government serves to meet insubstance its commitment on the ACC.

Priorities for the N e x t Phase of Reforms

88.      The Government will focus on priority measures to strengthen core governancefunctions,
with emphasis on public financial management, procurement, tax administration, trade
liberalization, maintaining macroeconomic stability, public administration, and checks and
balances on public entities. It willfurther strengthen sectoral governance inorder to improve the
investment climate and social service delivery. Given the significant unfinishedreform agenda and
the need for flexible financing, the GOBhas requested continued engagement with a D P L type
instrument. Further progress with key structural reforms would open the way for a move to a
PRSC in support o f the PRSP after the January 2007 election. The following Indicative Triggers
for the next adjustment operation are proposed.


                                                   26

Strengthening Core Governance

Improving public financial management and procurement systems and institutions


   0   Develop and initiate implementation o f an agreed Public Financial Management
       Improvement Plan (PFMIP), satisfactory to IDA, with measures and timetable to address
       gaps, including those identified in the recently developed Public Financial Management
       (PFM) indicators.     Among others, actions will include Government proposing to the
       Parliament Secretariat for approval: (i)steps to improve media access to the PAC
       proceedings; (ii) establishment o f a technical support unit for PAC.
   0   Operationalize and make functional the complaints mechanism for procurement, including
       the establishment o f independent review panels, meeting the standard stipulated in the
       procurement regulations. Publish quarterly procurement M I S results on CPTU's website
       with performance indicators for key implementing agencies inthe infrastructure and power
       sector (REB, LGED, RHD, and BWDB).

Strengthen transparency and accountability inthe Public Services


   0   Take appropriate steps to strengthen the Anti-Corruption Commission and its management.

Improving efficiency and accountability o f the National Board o f Revenue


    0  Strengthen the effectiveness and accountability o f the National Board o f Revenue by
       moving it toward a more functional organization structure, consistent with the NBR
       Strategic Development Plan. Toward this, create and approve a new Board and senior
       management structure, consistent with NBR's Strategic Development Plan. NBR will have
       hiring flexibility to recruit from the private sector, if necessary. Initiate the process o f
       filling eachidentifiedposition.

Lowering and streamlining trade restrictions to reduce opportunities for corruption and strengthen
economic efficiency


    0  Deepen trade liberalization by phasing out supplementary duties to reduce average nominal
       protection by at least 2 percentage points subject to revenue neutrality o f the proposed
       action, to be confirmed by a proposedjoint study by the Bank and the Government.

Maintaining macroeconomic stability


    0  Satisfactory implementation o f the agreed macroeconomic framework under the PRGF.

Strengthening Sectoral Governance

Improving the governance and efficiency o f the financial system


    0  Develop and agree specific Terms o f Reference for the Managing Directors o f the NCBs,
       and specify a fixed tenure for them, keeping inview their prospective corporatization.
    0  Implement an NCB restructuring action plan, acceptable to IDA and inaccordance with the
       timeline agreed with IDA.




                                                 27

Improving access, efficiency, and governance o f the energy sector


    0   Formulate and adopt a least cost generation development plan for generation investments
        inthe power sector and ensure that all proposedgeneration investments, extant and in the
        future, are consistent with this plan. To complement this plan, also formulate and adopt a
        Generation FinancingPlanwhich will define the Government's financing strategy for
         generation investments including, inter alia, the proportion o f generating capacity and the
        specific generation investments to be procured under private and public financing and
        ownership, respectively. All procurement o f generation capacity will be inline with the
        Public Procurement Regulations and, as applicable, the Private Power Generation Policy
        and the Private Sector Infrastructure Guidelines. Inthe event o f any deviation IDA will be
        informed.


    0   Issue a bidpackage to pre- qualified private investors for at least one new, base load power
        plant, consistent with the above referenced regulations and policies.


    0   For the Small Power Plantprogram (to mitigate load sheddinginthe interim to bringing
         supply and demand o f generatingcapacity into balance) make all procurement o fpower on
        the basis of transparent and competitive procedures including the issue o f model security
        packages (PPA, FSA) and licensingagreements and selection criteria based on technical
         competence, financial capabilities and tariffs offeredby competing bidders, with relative
         weights consistent with international good practices.


    0    Initiate implementation o f the Power Sector Financial RestructuringPlan (covering
         specific actions on asset re-valuation, debt restructuring, pension liabilities, tariffs, arrears).

89.      These key measures will need to be reinforced by vigorous implementation of reforms
already begun and also supported by the Government's wider agenda, as spelt out in its PRSP.
Macroeconomic stability and public debt sustainability require that the Government steps up its
revenue generation efforts, as well as curbs BPC's losses and improves the financial performance
o f other energy utilities. The trade agenda needs not only reduced protection levels with special
emphasis on reducing para tariffs but also speedier customs procedures, automation o f duty-
drawback,     regional cumulation for value-added in exports and enhanced phytosanitary,
environmental and labor standards.

90.      The Government remains committed to further strengthening the core governance
functions. It envisages a time bound joint GOB-donor integrated public financial management
improvement plan which among other things, will cover the gaps indicated in para 39. The
Government also aims to support its planned improved budget procedures with enhanced
accounting, procurement and administrative processes. The new budget preparation procedure
consolidating current and capital spendingplans by key ministries should improve the effectiveness
o f public spending in support o f the PRSP. The new procurement law, which i s due to be
presented to the Parliament soon, will need to be accompanied by updated regulations, ensuring
compliance with the updated regulations, introduction o f e-procurement, strengthening complaint
review mechanism, and strengthening compliance and monitoring. K e y to the effectiveness of
government will be the performance o f the senior civil service, where improved recruitment,
promotion procedures, training and deployment will be essential.

91.      Sectoral governance would need to be strengthened to improve the investment climate
and delivery of essential social services. Continued strengthening o f the financial sector will



                                                  28

require not only resolving NCBs but also tightening prudentialrequirements for all banks as well as
enhancing Bangladesh Bank's capacity and streamlining its human resources. The energy sector
will need the Energy Regulatory Commission to play its full role in licensing and tariff-setting.
Further adjustments o f tariffs for petroleum products, gas and power will be needed to move them
closer to better reflect global prices increases. The Government also needs to adopt a new gas
strategy, develop a coal strategy and put these within an overall energy strategy. Public sector
involvement in manufacturing activities will need to be further curtailed with continued phasing
out o f manufacturing SOEs.

92.      Strengthened interventions in health, education and socialprotection will be essential to
achieving the PRSP goals. The Government has shown its commitment to devote a large share o f
overall public spending to social programs. It already has ambitious programs inplace for primary
and secondary education. It now plans to ensure that poorer districts get an increased share o f
resources. It has also set up a task force to develop a strategy for tertiary education. Inhealth, the
Government aims to improve sector management, cut absenteeism, rely on autonomous contracting
to deliver more services, work closely with the private sector in tertiary care, and pilot cash
transfers to give poor women access to services.       The Government also needs to formulate a
comprehensive social protection strategy, begin implementing it across ministries, and improve the
targeting o f the existing schemes. NGOs already play a key role in delivering services, and this
could be enhanced with an improvedregulatory environment.

93.      An ambitious environmental reform agenda has been developed, but it needs to be
implemented with a renewed sense of urgency. Particularly, urgency i s warranted on the
Department o f Environment's Strategic Plan, the action plan to phase-out grossly polluting
vehicles, and the Inland Capture Fisheries Strategy. The Government plans to begin implementing
its national water management plan, including greater access for the poor to fisheries.             In
agriculture, it aims to rationalize research institutions to enhance their role in improving
productivity. It also aims to promote agribusiness.

                            VI1 IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS

Monitoring and Evaluation

94.      Improving the quality and effectiveness of economic and social policies will require
more timely and reliable information for policy analysis and assessing outcomes. The PRSP
outlines a monitoring framework, which includes monitoring indicators, data sources, and
institutional arrangements for monitoring and providing feedback to policymakers.            Sources
include existing data as well as planned annual surveys for tracking intermediate indicators related
to access, usage, and satisfaction with public services.      The ongoing Household and Income
Expenditure Survey will provide an important basis for updated poverty monitoring and analysis.
GOBis actively considering adopting the Public Financial Management Performance Indicators
developed by the Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) group. This will also
provide a useful tool to monitor performance inpublic financial management.

95.      Successful monitoring depends critically on institutional arrangements and their capacity.
A National Poverty Focal Point has been created inthe General Economics Division (GED) o f the
Planning Commission to monitor poverty and track progress in implementing the national strategy
for economic growth and poverty reduction. The NPFP i s expected to grow and function as an
institutionally effective and technically competent Poverty Monitoring Unit with strong inter-
ministerial linkages and interactions with various stakeholders outside the Government. Moving
ahead, the poverty diagnostics, drawing on quantitative and qualitative information, should be used


                                                 29

to set medium and long-term outcome-oriented targets. These should be linked to macroeconomic,
structural and social policies.     The Poverty Monitoring Unit should also consult civil society
regularly on PRSP progress. The Bangladesh Bureau o f Statistics (BBS) and the Ministry o f
Planning plan to develop a National Databank to provide an integrated database accessible to all
government departments and BBS.

96.       These efforts to strengthen monitoring and evaluation systems provide an excellent
opportunity to evaluate the various reforms supported under DSC-111. Ifimplementedsuccessfully,
they should further improve the quality o f information and analysis for decision-making and
inculcate a stronger results orientation within the Government.

Credit Administration,Disbursement and Auditing

97.       Borrower, Credit Amount, Terms and Tranching: The borrower i s the People's Republic o f
Bangladesh. A single tranche Credit o f about SDR 138.1 million (US$200 million equivalent)
would be made available upon credit effectiveness, anticipated for December 2005. The closing
date o f the Credit i s June 30, 2006.

98.       Disbursement: Proceeds o f the Credit will be disbursed to a specific deposit account o f the
Ministry o f Finance established at Bangladesh Bank for this purpose; the deposit account is part of
the country's official foreign exchange reserves. An amount equivalent to the Credit proceeds will
then be credited to an account o f the Government to finance budgeted expenditures. Transactions
and balances o f the Government account will be fully incorporated into the Government's
accounting records and financial statements.      Disbursement will not be linked to any specific
purchases and no procurement requirements will be needed. If any portion o f the Credit proceeds
i s used for ineligible purposes as defined by the Development Credit Agreement, the International
Development Association (IDA) will require the Borrower either to return that amount to the
deposit account or refund the amount directly to IDA.

99.      Fiduciani Risk and Audit: The IMF Safeguard Assessment conducted in September 2002
concluded that financial management in the Bangladesh Bank was weak.                To enhance the
safeguards framework, the Bangladesh Bank has started strengthening its financial management
with IMF support and the IDA-financed Central Bank Strengthening Project. A time table has
been set for the adoption by the Bangladesh Bank o f International Accounting Standards as its
accounting framework. Starting from FY03, the Bangladesh Bank has its financial statements
audited by international affiliated audit firm in full compliance with international standards on
auditing. The entries of the Deposit account will, upon request from the Association, be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA under terms o f reference in accordance with international
standards on auditing. The various diagnostics conducted by the Bank and other donors also
acknowledge that fiduciary risk in public spending in Bangladesh is high. GOB has taken several
steps to address the weaknesses. As outlined in para 30, significant progress has been made over
the last five years to strengthen financial management and reduce fiduciary risks. The GOBhas
continued its PFM reform plans, as evidenced by the ongoing DFID funded Financial Management
reform Program (FMRP) which started in 2003, and implementation o f other aspects o f the reform
program described in this Program Document.             As a part o f the review o f Institutional
Arrangements for public expenditure, financial management and procurement, Bangladesh's P F M
system was rated against internationally accepted indicators (PFM indicators).       This provides a
useful framework to track progress towards improved P F M performance.




                                                  30

EnvironmentalIssues

 100.   Many of the reforms contained in this policy agenda may be expected to deliver
environmental benefits through the more efficient use of resources. Policies to address issues of
environmental liability for past contamination and continuing pollution by SOEs undergoing
privatization have been agreed with the Government, although greater attention to their application
i s warranted.   While this development policy lending operation does not have any direct
environmental implications, Bangladesh has serious environmental issues that pose substantial
social and economic concerns, with the economic benefit o f reducing exposure to environmental
health risks alone estimated to be about 3.5% o f national income. Drawing on the draft Country
Environmental Analysis discussed with the Government in July, 2005, a number of the most
critical issues regarding environmental health, natural resource productivity, and urban and
industrial pollution were presented in paragraphs 73-77.           These measures to strengthen
environmental management, and in particular to build the capacity o f the Department of
Environment through implementation o f its Strategic Plan, will form a critical element of the
Bank's dialogue and assistance strategy in Bangladesh.

                                     VI11 BENEFITS AND RISKS

101.    Benefits. The Government's development record inthe period coveredby the DSCs Iand
I1has been fairly impressive. Per capita growth has been at historically highlevels and sustained
progress in human development has been achieved. As indicated by past experience inBangladesh
and elsewhere, these have positive implications for poverty reduction. Over the longer term,
progress with institutional reforms supported by the credits would lead to more effective
government which, in turn, would improve public service delivery, reduce corruption and improve
the investment climate for private investment. These are critical for achieving sustained higher
growth and lower poverty inBangladesh.

102.    Political risks: With the next round o f general elections scheduled for January 2007, the
political landscape for deeper structural reforms i s becoming increasingly difficult and, with it, the
window o f opportunity to keep the reform momentum going risks slowly shutting. Already,
increased instance o f political violence and growing political heat from the opposition, especially
inthe form o f hurtuls, is beginningto constrain Government's reform efforts. A related risk is of
growing resistance from vested interests, as campaign contributions gain more currency.           The
Government, however, avows to continue with its reform agenda and its efforts to form political
and social consensus around the PRSP i s commendable. The Bank, on its part, remains committed
to supporting the Government's reforms efforts. To mitigate the impact o f political risks, the
timing, scale, and scope of future programmatic credits would be dictated by the commitment to
Government's reforms and, as in the case o f the previous DSCs, disbursements would be made ex-
poste -upon implementation of agreed reforms. Only those reforms that are strongly owned by the
Government and are championed by a counterpart from within will be considered for support, IDA
will also continue working closely with other donors to generate broader political support for
reforms.

103.    Governance problems could overwhelm, as corruption remains a major concern, the law
and order situation i s weak, and the bureaucracy has limited capacity.         As indicated by the
experience with reforms in this area supported under DSCs, institutional improvements needed to
mitigate this are necessarily slow-moving and will have to be inherently indigenous.              The
Government, supported by the donor community including under the DSCs, has already made
impressiveinroads on several fronts to address this. Inthe area o f economic governance, a number
of recent sectoral reforms in banking, SOEs, public administration, and the trade system should


                                                 31

narrow the scope for corruption, as well as improving the efficiency o f the economy and the quality
o f service delivery.     In addition, reforms in procurement, financial management, and anti-
corruption will have long-term benefits in lowering corruption once these are fully effective.
However, these can only be viewed as incremental steps in what i s necessarily a long-term and
complex process o f institutional building. Governance related reforms will continue to be at the
core o f future adjustment operations as well, although realism in setting goals would be warranted.
Giventhe severe capacity constraints inthe country, the Bank and the rest o f the donor community
will needto stay engaged andprovide support over a longperiod.

104.     Budgetary and fiduciary risks:Fungibilityo f funds impliesthat budgetary resources may
be diverted or misused, which poses a particular risk to operations, such as DSC 111. The
Government, however, has a good record o f allocating public spendingto key development sectors,
including social spending and infrastructure. To further mitigate the risk, auditing arrangements
and financial management within government ministries are being strengthened with DffD's
assistance. The new procurement regulations should reduce the scope for misuse o f budgetary
funds in contracting. External oversight by the Comptroller and Auditor General's office is also
being strengthened. Further, tracking studies of major spending on health and education should
also curb leakages. These measures should mitigate budgetary risks, but their effectiveness will
depend crucially on the swift resolution of serious financial irregularities, identified by the C&AG,
and on readiness by the Finance Ministry to impose financial sanctions on errant agencies and
programs.     To enhance safeguard framework, Bangladesh Bank has started strengthening its
financial   management with the support from IMF and the IDA-financed Central Bank
Strengthening Project.     A timetable has been set for the adoption by Bangladesh Bank o f
InternationalAccounting Standards as its accountingframework.

105.     Implementation capacity risks: Implementation capacity is a serious bottleneck. This
partly reflects the overly centralized nature o f public administration.          Decentralization o f
responsibilities to local'governments could help, but unfortunately, there i s no political ownership.
At the central level, capacity is constrained by the weakness of civil service. Ongoing reforms in
public administration to strengthen civil service incentives, accountability and training will help.
Bank and other donors are also providing technical assistance to strengthen capacities in a number
of core areas of economic management including banking, taxation, the budgetary process, and the
energy sector. Technical work and broad engagement with a range o f interested parties on the
decentralization agenda i s also plannedto builda stronger constituency on this key reform.

106.     External risk: Bangladesh faces two major external risks. One arises from the removal o f
the global quota system for garment exports earlier this year.       This has led to unprecedented
competition for Bangladesh's garment exports. However, as discussed inpara 48 the net impact o f
this change is yet to be felt inBangladesh, although the situation is still unfolding. To mitigate the
medium and long-term impact o f this, authorities need to promote export diversification, further
reduce anti-export bias, and improve the investment climate. Continued engagement with IMF and
the World Bank on macroeconomic and structural reforms will help achieve these objectives and
reduce external vulnerability.    The more imminent external risk emanates from the continued
increase in imported petroleum prices.        To mitigate this, IDA will continue to press for
implementation o f the agreed pricing framework and supportive monetary and fiscal policies to
contain any resulting inflationary pressures.




                                                  32

                          Annex Table ; Summary MacroeconomicIndicators
                                               Actual             Prel.        Projections
                                        FY02   FY03      FY04    FY05    FY06    FY07     :FY08
      Output and Prices                                Annua1percentage changes
       Real GDP Growth                  5.2      5.3      6.3     5.4     6.5     6.8      7.0
       CPI                              2.5     4.4       5.8     6.5     6.0     5.0      4.5
      ExternalOutlook
       Exports (billion $)              6.0      6.5      7.5     8.7     9.9     11.2     12.6
        Annual % change                 4.6      9.5     15.8     13.9    14.0    13.0     12.0
       Imports (billion $)              7.9      8.7      9.8     11.9    13.2    14.7     16.2
        Annual % change                 2.5     13.0     13.0     20.6    11.0    10.0     10.1
       Current account balance (% o f   -0.8     0.1      0.3     -0.9    -0.4    -0.3     0.2
      GDP)
       Gross official reserves (billion  1.5     2.5      2.7     3.0     3.7      4.4     4.7
      $1Inmonths o f GNFS imports        1.8     2.9      2.8     2.6     2.5      2.6      2.8
      Public Finance                                         Percent of GDP
       Total Revenue                    9.2     10.3     10.1     10.3    11.0    11.5     12.0
       Total Expenditures               14.1    13.7     13.3     13.8    15.5    15.9     16.4
        Overall  balance    (excluding  -5.0    -3.4      -3.2    -3.5    -4.5    -4.4     -4.4
      grants)
       Domestic financing               2.8      1.3      2.1      1.9     2.0     1.9      1.8
       Public debt                      50.5    51.0     48.3     47.9    48.4    47.9     47.1
      Money and Credit                                End ofyear; percentage change
       Domestic credit                  15.3     8.0      11.9    17.3    13.2
       Private sector                   13.6    12.6      12.0    17.0    14.0  ' 13.0     12.5
        Broad money (M2)                16.1    15.6      13.8    16.9    13.0     13.0    12.0
    Source: GOBestimates andprojections

                        Annex Table 2: Total Expenditureby FunctiodMinistry

                                          (percent o f GDP)                                        I
                               I FY98 FY99 FYOO FYOl FY02 FY03 FY04 FY05 FY06
                                                                                         (r)    (b)
Interest                          1.2    1.3    1.5      1.6      1.7    1.5     1.8     1.8    1.7
General Public Services           1.5    1.4    1.5      1.7      1.4    1.7     1.5     1.6   2.0
Defenseandpublicorderand          2.0   2.0     2.1      2.0      1.9    1.8     1.9     1.9    1.8
Safety
Education                         2.1   2.2     2.2      2.3      2.2    2.2     2.1     1.9    2.3
Health                             1.0   1.0    1.0      1.0      1.0    1.0     1.0     0.9    1.0
Social Security and Welfare       0.8    1.0    1.0      0.7      0.6    0.6     0.6     0.7    0.7
AgricultureiRural                 2.2   2.5     2.7      2.8      2.4    2.3     2.4     2.8    2.7
DevelopmentIHousing
Fuel and Energy                   0.9   0.9     1.1      1.0      0.9    1.0     1.2     1.2    1.0
Transport and Communication       1.4    1.5    1.5      1.8      1.9    1.9     1.7     1.8    1.6
TotalExpenditure                 13.4   14.0    15.0     15.3    14.4    14.5    14.8   15.1   15.4




                                                  33



3




e

m
t-


.......
z . r
.I,    ' . . . I
       I.




                    Y

0
d

3
d

-c
ME
PI
E

c',
7

4
McE'
T




        I


W
d

                                                                                                                                       Annex 2



                                    Bangladesh at a Glance

POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                     South        Low-
                                                     Bangladesh         Asia      income       Developmentdiamond*
2004
Population, mid-year (millions)                              140.5      1,448       2,338
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                             430       590          510                     Life
GNi (Atlas method, US$ billions)                              60.9       860        1,184                           T
Average annual growth, 1998-04                                                                                        1
Population I%)                                                  1.7       1.7         1.E
Labor force (%J                                                 2.2       2.1         2.1        GNI                                 Gross
                                                                                                 per                                primary
Most recent estimate (latestyear available, 1998-04)                                             capita                          enrollment
Poverty (% of population below nationalpovertyline)              50
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                          27       28           30
Life expectancy at birth Wears)                                  62       63           58                           I
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                         46       66           79
Chiid malnutrition (% of children under 5)                       52       48           44             Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)                                                   -
                                                                 75       84           75
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                              59       41           39
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)            96       97           94                     Bangladesh
    Male                                                         94       105         101                      Low-income w o w
    Female                                                       98       92           88

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                  1984        1994      2003         2004        Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                 19.7       33.8       51.9        56.8
Gross domestic investment/GDP                      15.9        18.4      23.4        23.4                                -
Exports of goods and services/GDP                   3.3         9.0      14.2        13.9                         Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                          6.2        13.5      17.6        16.9
Gross national savings/GDP                         16.2        18.8      24.5        24.3                           T
Current account balancelGDP                        -1.1        -0.3       0.1         0.3        Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                               0.4         0.5       0.3         0.3                                       Investment
Total debt/GDP                                    28.7        46.3       36.2        35.2        savings

Total debt service/exports                         17.7        12.9       6.4         8.0
Present value of debt/GDP                                                24.7
Present value of debWexports                                            122.0
                                                                                                               Indebtedness
                                        1984-94 1994-04       2003      2004                            -
                                                                                 2004-08
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                        3.9      5.2         5.3       5.5         5.9                       Bangladesh
GDP per capita                             1.6      3.3         3.4       3.7         4.1                        Low-income arom
Exports of goods and services              8.7      9.9         6.9       6.5         3.0


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY

I%of GDPJ                                                               2003         2004    1.-/Growth of
                                                                                              `'          Investment and GDP (%)             I
Agricuiture                                       32.3        25.6       21.8        20.4
Industry                                          21.2        24.3       26.3        26.5     10
   Manufacturing                                   14.3        15.3      15.8        15.9
Services                                          46.6        50.0       52.0        53.1
                                                                                                                                        I
Private consumption                               89.6        81.6       77.1        77.7               99     00      01  02     03    04
General government consumption                      4.2         4.9       5.3         5.4
Imports of goods and services                                                                             ----GO1         a G D P




(average annualgrowth)                         1984-94 1994-04          2003         2004    [Growth of exports and imports ("h)             1
Agriculture                                         2.2         3.7       3.1         2.7     2o
Industry                                            6.0         6.8       7.3         7.7      10
   Manufacturing                                    5.9         6.0       6.7         7.4
Services                                            3.7         5.1       5.4         5.7        O


Private consumption                                 3.1         3.1       4.0         4.6    -10

General government consumption                      3.7         6.3      13.2
Gross domestic Investment                           6.1         9.0       7.9
Importsof goods and services                        3.9         6.0       7.4


Note: 2004 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) comparedwith its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
    be incomplete.




                                                                      47

                                                                                                                         Annex 2




PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                          1984   1994    2003   2004
Domestic wices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                    3.3     3 5    4.3
implicit GDP deflator                      14.0    3.8     4.5    5.5

Governmentfinance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
                                                                                                                       I
Current revenue                             6.2    9.3   10.3    10.1             99    00      01     02       03    04
Current budget balance                      1.1    2.5     2.2    2.4            -GDP        deflator *CPI
Overall sumluddeficit                      -7.3   -4.5    -3.4   -3.2

TRADE
                                          1984   1994    2003   2004
(US$ millions)                                                            Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                        823  2,524   6,549   6,959
 Raw iute                                   117     57     82            l2  500T
 Leatherand leather products                 85    192     191           10 000

 Manufactures                              389  2,026   6,086   6,529      7 500
Total imports (cifl                      2,353  4,191   8,707   9,871      5 000
 Food                                      485     151    581
 Fuel and enemy                            355     168    950   1,077      2 500
                                                                       I
 Capital goods                             616   1,299  3,439   3,865          0
                                                                                             00    01    02     03  04
Export price index (1995=100)                28     96     130    133            98   99

Import price index (1995=100J                52    105     162    172                    Exports         rnImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    53     91     80      77

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                          1984   1994    2003   2004
(US$ millions)                                                            Current account balanceto GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services             1,033  3,057   7,379  8,445      ' T
Importsof goods and sewices               2,543 4,693   10,285 11,638
Resource balance                         -1,510 -1.636  -2,906 -3,193

Net income                                  -64    -31   -458   -374
Net current transfers                     1.361  1.578   3,440  3,743

Current account balance                   -213     -89      76    176

Financingitems (net)                       568     881    811      59
Changes in net reserves                   -355   -792    -887    -235

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)           2,746   2,471   2,714
Conversionrate (DEC, local/US$)           24.9   40.1    57.9    58.8

EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                          1984   1994    2003   2004
(US$ millions)                                                           1 Compositionof 2004 debt (us$mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed       5,654 15,622  18,778 20,019
  iBRD                                       50     58       7      0
  IDA                                     1,677  5,378   8,062  8,895

Total debt service                         286     556     672    945
  IBRD                                        3      7       7      8
  IDA                                        16     71     180    208

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Official grants                          595     379     428    319
  Official creditors                       489     705     461    557
  Private creditors                                        -18    -16
  Foreigndirect investment                   -1     16     376    385
  Podfolio equity                             0     53       2      6                                 C 231

World Bank program
  Commitments                              339     597     554    827      A IBRD                          E Bilateral
  Disbursements                            249     405     519    615      B IDA
                                                                             --      D Other multilateral F Private
                                                                                      -
  Principal repayments                        3     36     130    148      C-IMF                           G Short-term
                                                                                                             ---
  Net flows                                246     389     388    467
  Interest payments                          16    42       56     68
  Net transfers                            230     327    332     399


DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                              8/1/05




                                                       48

                                                                                                                   Annex 3



                                                 STATISTICAL ANNEXES

                                                 Governmentof BangladeshFiscalTrends             -
              (Billion Takas)         1998-99 11999-2000  I          I         I        I                           I
                                                                  0
                                                           2000-01      2001-02  2002-03  2003-04  2004-05  2005-06    2006-07
                                                                                                  3stimate      Proiections
rota1Revenue                           185.0       198.0     229.0       276.8    309.7    337.4    380.5    457.2       517.5
  T U                                  153.0       158.0     193.0       210.3    248.2    272.7    305.4    373.1      424.9
  Non-Tax                                  32.0     40.0      36.0       66.5     61.5     64.7      75.1     84.1       92.6

Fotal Expenditure                      -280.0      -320.0    -358.0     -403.6   -411.5   -443.8   -508.3   -633.5      -707.3
  Current expenditure                  -158.0      -178.0    -194.0     -218.2   -244.5   -258.6   -308.9   -351.4      -397.9
  FoodAccount Surplus                       -7.0    0.0       -2.0       -2.1      2.7     -3.5      -1.6     -3.5       -3.5
  Annual DevelopmentProgram            -90.0       -127.0    -166.0     -152.3   -163.0   -167.9   -182.7   -238.9      -263.3
  Non-ADP & Net Lending                    -1.0     -9.0     -12.0       -17.2    -6.6     -16.0    -19.6    -32.2       -32.6
  StructuralAdjustment Expenditures                  ...       ...
                                             I..                          0.0     -12.3    -7.8      -1.9     -7.5       -10.0

Residual                               -24.0        -6.0      16.0       -13.8    12.2     10.0      6.4      0.0         0.0

Dverall budget deficit *               -95.0       -122.0    -129.0     -126.8   -101.8   -106.4    -127.8   -176.3     -189.8

Vet foreign financing                      56.0     57.0      50.0       58.1     64.2     37.4      56.3     93.0       101.6

Vet domestic financing                     39.0     65.0      79.0       68.1     37.5     69.0      71.6     83.3       88.2
  Bankingsystem                            21.o     32.0      37.0       21.7     -10.7    23.0      42.4     36.3        37.0
  Other domestic                            18.0    33.0      43.0       46.4     48.2     46.0      29.2     47.0        51.2

PrivitazationReceipts                       0.0     0.0        0.0        0.6      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0

rota1Debt (Outstanding& Disbursed)     1004.0      1135.7    1287.8     1448.0   1,532.6  1,615.6  1,787.1  2,018.8     2,221.1

GDP at current market prices        ---------
                                       2197.0      2371.0    2535.0     2732.0   3,005.0  3,330.0  3,685.0  4,171.0     4,637.0

                                                         (As percent of GDP)                       - -
rota1Revenue                                                   9.0       10.1                        10.3     11.0        11.2
  Tax                                                          7.6        7.1                         8.3      8.9        9.2
  Non-Tax                                   1.5      1.7       1.4        2.4      2.0      1.9       2.0      2.0        2.0

rota1Expenditure                       -12.7       -13.5      -14.1      -14.8    -13.7    -13.3     -13.8    -15.2      -15.3
  Current expenditure                       -7.2    -7.5      -7.7        -8.0     -8.1     -7.8     -8.4      -8.4       -8.6
  FoodAccount Surplus                       -0.3    0.0       -0.1        -0.1     0.1      -0.1      0.0      -0.1       -0.1
  Annual DevelopmentProgram                 -4.1    -5.4      -6.5        -5.6     -5.4     -5.0      -5.0     -5.7       -5.7
  Non-ADP &Net Lending                      0.0     -0.4      -0.5        -0.6     -0.2     -0.5      -0.5     -0.8       -0.7
   StructuralAdjustment Expenditures         ...     ...       ...         ...      ...      ...       ...      ...        ...

Residual                                    -1.1    -0.3       0.6        -0.5     0.4      0.3       0.2      0.0        0.0

Overall budgetdeficit                      -4.3     -5.1      -5.1        -4.6     -3.4     -3.2      -3.5     -4.2       -4.1

Vet foreign financing                       2.5      2.4       2.0        2.1      2.1      1.1       1.5      2.2        2.2

Net domesticfinancing                       1.8      2.7       3.2        2.5      1.2      2.1       1.9      2.0         1.9
  Banking system                            1.o I :.:1.3       1.5        0.8      -0.4     0.7        1.2     0.9         0.8
  Other domestic                            0.8      1.4       1.7         1.7      1.6      1.4      0.8       1.1        1.1

PrivitazationReceipts                                          0.0        0.0                         0.0      0.0         0.0

Total Debt (Outstanding & Disbursed)    4::                   50.8        53.0                     ---
                                                                                                     47.9      48.4       47.9




                                                                49

                                                                                                                     Annex 3



                                                               -                                                     -
                                                    Bangladesh K e y Economic Indicators
                                                              -
                                                                                                                      Estimate
Indicator                                  =  1998     1999      2000     =  2001        2002      2003   ____
                                                                                                             2004      2005


Sational Accounts (as % of GDP)


Gross Domestic Producta                       100.0    100.0     100.0       100.0       100.0     100.0     100.0     100.0
   Agriculmre                                 24.5     25.3       24.6        24.1       22.7      21.8      21.0       20.0
   Industry                                   24.8      24.3      24.4        25.9       26.4      26.3      26.6       27.3
    Services                                  50.7      50.4      51.0        50.0       50.9      52.0      52.4       52.7

Total Consumption                             82.6      82.3      82.1        82.0        81.8     81.4      80.5       79.8
Gross Domestic Fixed Investment               21.7      22.2      23.0        23.1       23.2      23.4      24.0       24.4
    Government Investment                      6.4      6.7        7.4         7.2        6.4       6.2       6.2        5.9
    Private Investment                        15.3      15.5       15.6       15.8        16.8      17.2      17.8      18.5


~ x p o r(GNFS)~
           t                                  13.3      13.2       14.0       15.3        14.4      14.2      15.5      15.4
Imports (GNFS)                                18.3      18.7       19.2       21.5        19.0     20.0      20.8       22.6

Gross Domestic Savings                        17.4      17.7       17.9       18.0        18.2      18.6      19.5      20.2

Gross National Savings                        21.8      22.3      23.1        22.4        23.4     24.9      25.4       26.5

Memorandum Ztenw
Gross Domestic Product                       44,096   45,697     47,101     46,998       47,303    51,744    56,842    60,706
(US$ million at current prices)
GDPper capita (US$, Atlas Method)             350.7    354.1     367.3       371.1       361.0     389.0     418.0     445.0

Real Annual Growth Rates (%)
    GDP at constant market prices              5.2      4.9        5.9         5.3        4.4       5.3       6.3        5.4
    Gross National Income at market price     5.24      5.06       6.19       5.08        5.5       6.2       6.0        5.8

Balance of Payments (US$ millions)

Exports (GNFS)                                5,810    5,990     6,550       7,178       6,793     7,379     8,445      9,750
    MerchandrseJo. b.                         5,103    5,283     5,701       6,419       5,929     6,492     7,521      8,573

Imports (GNFS)                                8,049    8,527     9,060       10,103      9,061     10,285    11,638    13,917
    Merchandise c.i.j                         6,772    7,217     7,566       8,430       7,697     8,707     9,840     11,870

Resource Balance                             -2,239    -2,537    -2,510      -2,925      -2,268    -2,906    -3,193     -4,167
N e t Current Transfers                       1,876    2,195      2,394      2,171       2,826     3,440     3,743      4,245
 Current Account Balance                      -463      -477       -337      -1,018       237        76       176        -562
N e t Private Foreign Direct Investment       249       198        194         174         65       376       385        540
L o n g Term Loans                            560       787        698         729        921       614       201        705
    Official                                   607      828        571         742        963       634       242        75 1
    Private                                    -47      -41        127         -13        -42       -20       -4 1        -46
 Other Capital'                               -395      -965       -640       -242        -514      -482      -433       -289

 Change in Reserves                            151      -278        98        -384        -329      -811      243         -5

MemorandumItems:
Resource Balance (Yo of GDP)                  -5.1      -5.6       -5.3        -6.2       -4.8      -5.6      -5.6       -6.9
Real Annual Growth Rates
    Merchandise Exports (f.0.b.)              15.3       3.5        7.9        12.6       -7.6       9.5      15.9        14.0
       Manufactures                           19.7       5.0        8.0        13.2        5.5      11.8      12.4        13.2
    Merchandise Imports (cif.)                -5.4       6.6        4.8        11.4       -8.7      13.1      13.0       20.6




                                                                                                                       Estimate
 Indicator                                    1998      1999                              2002 -    2003      2004       200s

 Public Finance (as % of GDP at mkt prices)
 Total Revenues                                9.3       8.4        8.4        9.0        10.1       10.3      10.1       10.3
 Current Expenditure                          -7.1      -7.2       -7.5        -7.7       -8.0       -8.1      -7.8       -8.4
 Overall Budget Deficit                       -4.0      -4.3       -5.1        -5.1       -4.6       -3.4      -3.2       -4.4
 Capital Expenditure                           5.6       5.6        6.5        6.5         6.2       5.6       5.5        6.2
 N e t Foreign Financing                       2.5       2.5        2.4        2.0         2.1       2.1        1.1       2.4

 M o n e t a r y Indicators
 M2/GDP                                       27.9      28.7       31.5        34.4       36.1      37.9      38.8        41.1
 Growth o f M2 (Yo)                            10.4     12.8       18.6        16.6       13.1       15.6      13.8       16.9
 Private Sector Credit Growth                  12.6     13.8       10.5        16.3       13.9       12.6      14.2       16.8
 Total Domestic Credit Growthe                 13.3     13.1       13.7        17.7        13.2      9.5       20.7       17.3



 Prices Indices (FY96 = 100)
 Merchandise Export Price Index               110.6     117.5      117.5      120.3       123.2     126.2     135.2       137.9
 Merchandise Import Price Index               114.6     125.5      126.6      136.2       146.4     157.8     164.2       167.6
 Merchandise Terms of Trade Index             101.7     93.6       92.8        88.4       84.1       80.0      82.4       82.3


 Nominal Exchange Rate (USSLCU)d              45.4      48.1                              57.4       57.9      58.9       60.2

 Consumer Price Index ("4change)               7.0       8.9                               2.8       4.4        5.8        6.5
 G D P Deflator (% change)                     5.3       4.7                               2.7       4.4        4.2        5.0




                                                                     50

                                                                                                   Annex 3




Total population end o f the year (millions)      113.3   122.1      128.1  133.4  135.2  1,425   2,312
   Growth rate (% annual averagefor period)        2.1     1.8        1.4   1.4    1.3     1.8     1.9
Urbanpopulation (% ofpopulation)                   18.0    19.0      25.0   27.0          28.0     30.0
Total fertility rate (births per woman)            4.2     3.4       3.1    2.9            3.1     3.7
Poverty (Lower poverty line)
(% ofpopulation)
National Headcount Index                          42.7     34.4      33.7    ...           ...      ...
   Urban Headcount Index                          23.3     13.7      19.1    ...           ...      ...




Total                                              56.3    58.9       62     62             63      59
   Male                                            55       57        61     ...            62      58
   Female                                           56      59        62     ...            63      60
Mortality
   Infant (per thousand live births)                88      71        ...    67     65      14      17
   Under 5 (per thousand live births)               ...    112        ...    85     88      99      116
  Adult (15-69)
   Male (per 1000population)                        ...     ...      278    262             ...     ...
   Female (per IOOOpopulation)                      ...     ...      272    252             ...     ...
  Maternal (per IOOO live births)                  4.1     4.4        ...     3      3      ...     ...
Births attended by skilled health staff (%)        1.0      ...       14     12     13      ...     ...

a/ Some data correspond to 2000-01 and 2001-02
b/ The CPI has been rebasedusing FY96 weights
c/ The immunization rates in2003104are for children 12-23months old.




                                                              51

                                                                                                             Annex 3



                                    Bangladesh: K e y Exposure Indicators
                                     (inUS$ million unless otherwise stated)
                                                 Actual                    Estimate             Projection
                                       2001        2002      2003        2004     2005      2006         2007
Total debt outstanding and
disbursed (TDO)                        15,255     17,061     18,778     19,321    20,364    21,379      22,354


Net disbursements                       557         217       337        543      1,010     1,015          975


Total debt service (TDS)a               676         727       672        958      1,018     1,039        1,107

Debt and debt service indicators
(%>
    TDOIXGS~                           166.6       182.6     178.8       162.6    160.9     161.1         158.9
    TDO/GDP                             32.5        35.9      36.2       34.0      33.5      34.0         33.3
    TDS/XGS                             7.4         7.8       6.4        8.1       8.0       7.8           7.9
    Concessional/TDO                    93.4        92.8      93.2        ...       ...       ...           ...

IBRDexposure indicators (%)
    IBRDDSPublic D S                    1.o         0.9       1.1        0.8       0.0        0.0          0.0
    Preferred creditor DSIPublic
DSc                                     51.9        55.2      63.9       39.5      41.7      45.0          48.6

    IBRDDSiXGS                          0.1         0.1       0.1         0.1      0.0        0.0          0.0
    IBRD TDO~(US$mill)                  17           13         7          0         0        0.0          0.0
    Share o f IBRDportfolio             0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0        0.0          0.0
    IDA TDO~(VSSmi11)                  6,439       7,063     8,062       8,208    8,805      9,480       10,099

I F C
    Loans                               91           88        94         116       98        ...           ...
    Equityand quasi-equitye             13           13        13         12        12         ...          ...

MIGA



a/ Includes public and publicly-guaranteed debt, private non-guaranteed, use o f IMFcredits and net short-term capiti
b/ "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances
c/ Preferredcreditors are defined as IBRD,IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF, and the Bank
for International Settlements
d/ Includes present value o f guarantees
el Includes equity and quasi-equity types o f both loan and equity instruments




                                                         52

                                                                  Annex 3




Crude Death R




a/ Some data are for 1999
b/Based on the progress rateo f 1990-02
c/ The poverty headcount rate refers to the upper poverty line




                                                            53

                                                                                                     Annex 4



                                     BANGLADESH:FUNDRELATIONS
                                             (As o fAugust 31,2005)

 I. MembershipStatus:JoinedAugust17,1972;acceptedtheobligationsunderArticleVIII,Sections
         2,3, and 4 on April 11, 1994.

 11.     GeneralResourcesAccount:                           SDR million            Percent Ouota
         Quota                                                   533.30                    100.00
         Fundholding o f currency                                533.10                     99.96
         Reserve position inFund                                    0.21                      0.04

 111.    SDR Department:                                    SDRmillion        Percent Allocation
         Net cumulative allocation                                 47.12                   100.00
         Holdings                                                   0.10                      0.22

 IV.     OutstandingPurchasesandLoans:                      SDR million            Percent Ouota
         PRGF arrangements                                        215.78                     40.46

 V.      FinancialArrangements:

 Type-                     Approval       Expiration        Amount approved           Amount drawn
                                Date            Date           (SDR million)          (SDRmillion)




 VI.      ProjectedPaymentsto Fund (SDR million; based on existinguse o fresources and present holdings
          o f SDRs):

I                   I         2005  I         2006  I        2007  I          2008   I          2009  1
 Principal                     0.00           0.00            0.00             4.95            14.85
 Chargedinterest               0.85           2.35            2.35             2.35             2.30
I      Total        I          0.60 I         2.35  I         2.35 I           7.30  1         14.15  1

 VII.     SafeguardsAssessment

 Under the Fund's safeguards assessment policy, the Bangladesh Bank i s subject to a safeguards assessment
 with respect to an augmentation o f access under the PRGF Arrangement approved on July 28, 2004. The
 assessment was completed on January 24, 2005 and concluded that safeguards in place at the BB require
 further improvement. Weaknesses were identified in the legal, financial reporting, internal audit and internal
 control areas, and the safeguards assessmentrecommendedmeasures to address them.

 VIII.    ExchangeArrangement

 Exchange regime. The exchange regime is characterized as a managed float with no preannounced path for
 the exchange rate. UntilMay 31, 2003, the taka was fixed to the U.S. dollar, but was periodically adjusted. It
 was devalued on three occasions during 2000-02, when the trading band for BB's transactions was
 correspondingly widened or raised. From January 2002 until M a y 30, 2003, the official band for the taka
 remained unchanged at Tk 57.4-58.4 per U.S. dollar. Authorized dealer (AD)banks set their own buyingand




                                                     54

                                                                                                     Annex 4



selling rates for the U.S. dollar and other currencies generally within the band until October 2002. From
November 2002, however, AD banks have set rates outside the band. Effective May 31, 2003, BB no longer
announced a trading band for its foreign exchange transactions.

Restrictions on advance payments for imports were removed effective December 2004. At the last Article IV
consultation (June 2005), the Executive Board approved the maintenance o f restrictions on the convertibility
and transferability o f proceeds o f current international transactions in nonresident taka accounts. This
restrictioni s expected to be removed by end-June 2006.

IX.      Article I V Consultation

The next Article N consultation will be held subject to the provisions of the decision on consultation cycles
approved on July 15, 2002. The last Article IV consultation was held in March-April 2005, and was
concluded on June 7,2005 (IMF Country Report No. 05/85).

X.       TechnicalAssistance During 2003-05

2003

January and May:        MFDmissions advisedonpreparations for moving to a flexible exchange rateregime.

March-Sept.:            MFD resident adviser assisted BB with liquidity forecasting and monetary and
                        exchange operations.

May:                    MFD mission assisted BB with nationalized commercial bank (NCB) reforms; a
                        peripatetic advisor assisted BB with producing its FY03 accounts in accordance with
                        I A S .

August:                 MFDmissionprovidedrecommendations for reducinginterest rates.

August-Sept.:           FADmissionprovidedrecommendations ontax administration.

November:               MFDmissionprovidedrecommendations to prepare resolution strategies for the NCBs
                        and on the functioning of treasury billmarkets.

                        LEG/MFDmissiononrevisingBangladesh's foreign exchange regulations.

                        STA mission providedrecommendations to improve monetary and financial statistics.

2004

January-February :      STA missionprovidedrecommendations inthe area ofGovernment Finance Statistics.

February-May :          An MFD expert assisted the Fundmission inmonitoring and expanding memoranda o f
                        understanding for the nationalized commercial banks.

February-Oc t:          A peripatetic advisor assisted BB with improving accounting standards in accordance
                        with U S .




                                                       55

                                                                                                       Annex 4



March-April:         S T A mission provided recommendations to improve balance of payment statistics,
                     particularly in the areas o f foreign direct investment, private sector external debt, and
                     related income items.

April-Oct:           An MFD expert provided periodic assistance in the area of foreign exchange
                     operations.

2005

February-March:      S T A mission conducted the data ROSC.

March:               A peripatetic advisor assisted BB with improving accounting standards in accordance
                     with IAS.

May:                 An MFD expert provided periodic assistance in the area of foreign exchange
                     operations.

February-Sept:       An MFDexpert provided assistance inthe area o fbankrestructuring.

March-Sept:          An MFDexpert provided assistance inthe area o fbondmarket development.



XI.     Resident Representative

The resident representative office was established in 1972. The current Resident Representative, Mr.Jonathon
Dunn,took upthe post inAugust 2004.




                                                       56

                                                                                                   Annex 5




                                                                        M. Saifur Rahman
Ministry of Finance                                                            Minister
MinistryandPlanning                                                 Government of the People's
        of                                                            Republic of Bangladesh


                                                                                 Ortoher 24. 200.5

    Mr.Paul Wolfowitz,
    President,
    International Development Association,
    Washington DC 20433,
    USA

                                    Letter of Development Policy

     1.     Introduction

     1.I The Government has made further progress during the past year with the wide-
    ranging reform program on which it embarked when it took office in October 2001.
    Economic growth was sustained in FY2005 despite severe floods in the early part of the
                                                    -
    year. Domestic demand and investment Iiavc remained buoyant. Exports, too, I i w e grown
    strongly although rapid import growth has contributed to a modest deficit in the current
    balance o f payments. Monetary and fiscal policies have responded prudently to periodic
    volatility in the taka's exchange rate and to inflationary pressures. We have taken further
    steps to strengthen the structure o f the econoniy and to improve economic govelnance. The
    steady and determined pursuit of reforms - sometimes in difficult domestic and external
    circumstances   -is laying the basis for our longer-tenti god of accelerating ecoiiotiiic growth
    to reduce povertymorerapidly and improve the social conditions of the poorest members o f
    our society, especially in rural areas where most o f the population lives, and especially for
    women.

    1.2     In the past 18 months, we have consiilteci all sectors of society across the wholc
    country, as we have prepared the Government's National Strategy for Accelerated Poverty
    Reduction,(NSAPFUPRSP) - "Unlocking the Potential" - which was approved by National
    Economic Council on October 16, 2005. This Letter o f Development Policy lays out what
    the Government has done in the past year and the further refomis planned in the years ahead,
    and seek continuing budgetary financial support from the World Bank. Our program will
    emphasize prudent macroeconomic policies and steady structural reforms to improve the
    climate for private investment to create jobs, raise incomes and speed growth and poverty
    reduction. The Government's own spending will be based on a-three-year investment
    program, designed to translate the priorities of the NSAPWPRSP into iiiiproved
    infrastructure provision and better seivices for the poor.




                                                   57

                                                                                             Annex 5




2.      Maintaining Macroeconomic StabSlIty

2.1     Economic activity grew by 5.4 percent in FY2005, despite the exceptionally hcavy
floods in July-September 2004 which caused widespread damage to crops and property.
Agricultural output rebounded in the latter part o f the year but for the year as a whole was 3
percent lower than in FY2004. Strong domestic and external demand, however, encouraged
rapid expansion in industry, construction, services and exports, Demand pressures, gradual
depreciation o f the taka, rising prices of imported food and the pass-through of higher world
petroleum prices contributed to an increase in inflation during the latter half of 2005 and
early-2006. On point-to-point basis, inflation stood at 7.7 percent in July 2005, which is I.2
percentage point higher than a year earlier. The strong rise in domestic demand, coupled
with the sharp rise inthe international cost of oil, led to an increase o f more than 20 percent

exports - despite the phase out at the end of 2004 of the Multi-Fiber Arrangement - and
in the value of imports. This more than offset a healthy rise o f I4 percent in the value of

widened the trade deficit to $3.3 billion. Further strong growth in migrants' remittances,
however, helped contain the current deficit to S0.G billion, compared to a surplus o f $0.2
billion in FY2004. Capital inflows, in turn, offset the deficit to leave reserves broadly
unchanged.

2.2     The Government has responded to demand and inflation pressures with tightcr
monetary and fiscal policies. Bangladesh Bank has restricted monetary conditions
considerably since spring 2005. Banks' cash reserve requirements were increased from 4
percent to 4S percent in March and 5 percent with effect from October. Short-term Treasury
bill rates trave risen from 4 percent to 6.6 percent. Year-on-year credit growth has slowed
from 21 percent inJune 2004 to 17 percent in June 2005. The taka, which eased against the
dollar in early-2005 and again in late-summer, depreciated by 10 percent in nominal ternis
and by 5 percent in real terms between July 2004 and September 2005 before stabilizing.
Tighter monetary conditions have been accompanied by prudent fiscal inanagcment.
Spending was switched early in FY2005 to flood relief but the Government trimmed ADP
spending relative to the FY2005 budget plan, so that total spending was contained at 13-9
percent of GDP instead of the targeted 14.7 percent, Revenues, in turn, edged tip to 10.4
percent of GDP, and the overall central government deficit was contained at 3.5 percent of
GDP compared to the targeted 4.2 percent. Domestic financing of the deficit was limited to
1.9percent ofGDP.

3.      Structural and institutional reforms

3.1     The Government has contjnued to press ahead with the structural and institutional
reforms needed to lay the basis for vibrant private sector growth and for poverty reduction.
These refoms have included the financial sector, state-owned enterpdses, the energy sector,
telecommunications, the government's own fiscal operations, renewed trade liberalization.
and broad-based governance measures.

0     Financial sector - Our objective is to strengthen the banking sector so that finance can
      be mobilized and intermediated efficiently to creditworthy borrowers, and thc
  j   country's savings can be used for productive investmenl. in particular. we have




                                                58

                                                                                          Annex 5



  continued the process o f reforming natio1:alized commercial banks (NCBs). We also
   issued an Information memorandumin May 2005 seeking expressionsof interest froin
  potential strategic purchasers of Rupali Bank. Progress has been stayed by a court
   case, but the Government is seekingto have this lifted. Management support has been
  provided to Agrani, Janata, and Sonali Banks, Efforts will continue lo maximize
  benefits from this process. To ensure that the NCBs undergo needcd operational and
   financial restructuring, the Government plans to implementan agreed action plan (with
  IDA) involving bath interim and long-term measures. In order to improve the
  incentives for prudent management o f banks more generally, Bangladesh Bank has
  taken a further step towards aligning i:s prudential giiidelincs with intcrnationaI
  standards by requiring banks to put loans between 90 days and 180 days overdue into
  Special Mention Accounts. It bas also issried a Circular requiring banks from Octolxr
  2005 to make provisions of 5 percent against loans to borrowers with loans in this
  category. The Government is also preparinga new FinancialReportingAct, which will
  improve the transparency of company accoc~~its,helping investors and lenders identify
  enterpriseswith goodperfomance.
* State-owned enternrises - We have contiuued to reduce the losses of state-owned
  enterprises in manufacturing through a mixture of closures, downsizing aud cost
  savings. Losses of state enterprises in manufacturing Fell by 10 percent between
  FY2004and FY2005, bringing the tota! reductionintheir losses since FY2001io more
  than 40 percent. Four more enterpriseswere privatizedin FY2005, bringing the total to
   17 since FY2001, and shares were sold in two more. Lettersof Intent have been issued
  to buyersof a further eight enterprises.
  Energy Restructuringthe energy sector remains a high priority for the Government.
           -
  The Energy Regulatory Commission, established by the Government in 2004, has
  begun work with its first public hearingsof license and tariff applications inJuly 2005
  under its newly appointedchairman, The Coinmission is intended to play a key role in
  creating an environment, where the energy sector can contribute fully to oiir growth
  objectives.
e Power - Adequate and reliable electric pc-wer is essential Tor economic growth. Wc
  have made further efforts to improve the efficiency and finances of the major
  electricity utilities. System losses fell from 28 percent in FY2001 to 24 percent in
  FY2004. Collection eficiency rose from 33 percent to 99 percent. The collection to
  generation ratio rose from 67 percent to 75 percent. During FY2006, further efforts
  were made to collect arrears to the major electricity suppliers, and arrears fell from the
  equivalent of seven months accounts in FY2004to less than four monthsby the end o f
  FY2005. We are actively seeking to ensure that remaining arrears kont cities,
  municipalities, water supply authorities and state enterprises, especiallyjitte mills, arc
  cleared during the corning months. We remain committed tokensure that electricity
  tariffs cover costs in line with the formula agreed with IDA in May 2003, and we are
  preparing a financial recovery plan for the power sector. In addition, the process of
  handing 9,000 kms lines from BPDB to REB has continued with a further 1400 lines
  transferred in the past year. We are preparing a financial recovery plan for the sector.
  We are also seekingways in which private power might be sold to the grid to alleviate
  the loomingshortage ofpower in the next few years,




                                             59

                                                                                       Annex 5


  Petroleum The increase in world oil prices and hence the cost o f our imports bas
              -
  posed a heavy unanticipated extra burden on Bangladesh and the finances of the
  Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation (BPC). We have increased diesel and kerosene
  prices by 50 percent since May 2004, and we have raised petrol and octane prices by
  27-28 percent over the same period. These increases have prevented a further rise in
  BPC's losses, but these are still substantial, and we aim to reduce them further in
  FY2006. In this context, we remain committed to ensuring that doniestic petroleum

  --
  prices reflect the full cost of importsinline with the formula agreed with IDA.
  Gas     Our natural gas resources need to be developed and used efficiently. We
  therefore, increased gas prices by 2.3 percent in January 1,         2005. We remain
  committed to ensuring that domestic gas prices are linked to international lirices of
  competing fuels in line wit the formula agreed wilh IDA. We arc also preparing    ii 31s
  master plan.
  Transport and telecommunications - The Governmentlias endorsed new shippitigand
  land transport policics to promote better communication within the coiintry and with
  the outside world. A new container terminal is beingbuilt in ChittagongPort. We have
  also alfowed private competition with the national airline, Biman. The Bangladesh
  Telecommunications Regulatory Commission has issued licenses to five cellular
  operators and ten landlineoperators, Cellular telephone density is doublingeach year,
  and landlinedensityhasincreasedby 50 percentsince FY2002.
  Trade liberalization- We haveremovedall quantitativerestrictionson imports, except
  those on groundsof health,nationalsecurity and environmentalprotection, or items for
  which the World Trade Organizationhas given a waiver. The number of restrictjotis
  was reduced from 60 to 15 in the FY2006 Budget. We intend to reduce the average
  level of protectionby a further 2 percent in the year ahead, as part of a long-term aim
  to bring protection in Bangladesh in line with the average in other developing
  countries.
  Economic management - The Government has made further efforts to strengthen
  economic management through improvements in the budget process, public
  expenditure planning, procurement, rnonitoritlg and accounting. It is also scckiiig to
  enhance revenuemobilizationand the performanceof the National BoardofRevenue.
  Public soending The Government took an important initiative to iniprove public
                     -
  expenditure planning within a medium-tern1framework in preparation o f the FYOG
  budget. Four ministries were given spending envelopes for the next three years which
  unified capital and recurrentspending. We intendto extend this system to a fiirtlier six
  ministries in the preparation of the FY07 budget. About half of all spending will be
  covered. This innovation should allow ministries to plan their programs more
  effectively and to integrate their investment decisions with future recurrent spending
  needed to maintain and service such investments, It also allo,ws ministries to design
  programslinkedto achievementofthe Ionger-termgoalsof the NSAPR.
e Monitorhe: - We have done tracking studies of public spending on health and
  education with donors (UK-DFID and the Netherlands) to try to ensure that spending
  reaches the intended recipients. These studies showed that while most spending \vas
  reaching the poor, there was some evidence of leakages and mismanagernent. Wc are
  actingto correct these.




                                          60

                                                                                          Annex 5



  Procurement - The Government adopted a uniform procurement process in October
  2003, with greater transparency and substantially fewer approval processes. This has
  increased awareness of the necd for transparency. It has also helped donors' efforts to
  harmonize their procurement processes. Government has taken initiative to enact a
  procurement law. The draft law is awaiting approval of the cabinet prior to presenting
  it before the parliament. A management information system has been put in place to
  track the stages o f procurement. The Government is now preparing a law to reinforce
  these regulations.
  Accounting and auditing - The Governrneiit has strengthened public fiiiancial
  accounting with computerization of monthly accounts, strengthening o f the Coiltroller
  General o f Accounts (CGA), appointmelit of Chief Accounting Officers to cacii
  ministry and the separation of accounting and auditing by placing the CGA under the
  Finance Ministry, instead of the Controller and Auditor General (CikAG).
  Outstanding audit objections have been reduced. In the year ahead, we will begin
  implementing our Public Financial Accountability Improvement Plan. We will also
  publish quarterly procurement Managehent Infomiation System results with
  performance indicators for key agencies in power and infrastructure,
  Revenue - We have continued our efforts to strengthen revenue collection. Revenue is
  estimated to have risen from 10.2 percen) of CDP in FY2004 to 10.4 percent in
  FY2005. The Budget aims to increase revenues further to 11 percent of CDP in
  FY2006. The Government established          Large Taxpayer Unit for VAT in October
  2004 to complement the LTU for Income Tax. The National Board of Revenue (NBR)
  has strengthened its filing, payment and auditing capacity. ft is also computerizing
  more of its work. The Government has endorsed a far-reaching modernization strategy
  for the NBR to reorganize it along functional lines. The NBR has already advertised
  for key staffto strengthenits senior managementteam.
0 Public administration - The Government itself has a key role in improving the
  performance of public officials. We have, therefore, given greater weight lo merit iii
  the promotion o f senior officials. We have extended the training of officials. Wc arc
  also creating clusters of ministries with similar areas of interest and expertise, in order
  to encourageprofessional specialization ofkey staffrotated between these ministries.
0 Governance - Bangladesh has achieved remarkable progress in cconornic growth and
  poverty reduction. The Government, however, recognizes the need to improve
  governance across the board through wide and specific measures. Reforms in the
  banking sector and in state enterprises should reduce the misuse of funds. Our
  proposed introduction of a new Financia1Reporting Act, coupled with oversight of the
  accountancy profession, should improve corporate accounting. The new puklic
  procurement regulations should improve the transparency and accountability of public
  contracts and reduce the scope for corruption. Tighter auditing oFpubiic spending and
  the strengtheningof the Comptroller and Auditor General's Department, coupled with
  heightened oversight by the Public Accounts Committee, should improve thc
  performance of government departments themselves. The new tracking studies of
  spending on education and health should help curb the leakage of fitnds. The
  modernization of the NBR should curb tax evasion.
  Anti-Corruption Cominission - In addition to sectoral nwasures to combat corruption,
  the Government has also created an iridependent Anti-Corruption Coiiiiiiissioti.




                                            61

                                                                                          Annex 5



      Members of the Commission were appointed in November 2004. They have started the
      complex process of zstablishing the Commission. Progress has not been as rapid as
      anticipated, partly due to the need to design a new organogram, devise rules of
      procedure for the new Commission and'screen carefully staff of the fanner Bureau
      against Corruption. The Commission, however, is now working closely with the Asian
      Development Bank on these issues. The Government has sanctioned 500 posts. A draft
      organogram and rules have been prepared. A start has been made in screening former
      BAC staff and agreeing the procedure by which they niay be fitted to posts in the new
      Commission.
       The Government has recently cornpletcu a Country Environmental Assessment with
      the World Bank. This focuses o:i impro,t:ng the health of tlie poor throtigh tackling air
      pollution, industriai was:c, poor sanitation and arsenicosis, as well as yrotccting tlic
      livelihoods of the poor through preservz(ion of fisheries and other iiatiiral rcsottrccs.
      The Government aims to increase its capcity in these areas and iniprove transparency.

3.2     In the year ahead, the Government intends to pursue its reform program vigorously
while maintaining a prudent macroeconomic framework. It will emphasize, in particular,
improvements in public financia! management and implementation of tlie new procurement
regulations adopted in 2003. It will strength the Anti-Corruption Commission and its
management. It will move the National Board of Revenue towards a morc ftinctioiiai
structure consistent with the NBR's Strategic Development Plan. It will deepen tl-adc
liberalization. It will implement further the restructuring plan for NCBs with a morc cicarly
defined role for their Managing Directors. The power sector remains crucial to our growth
objectives. We intend to formulate a least cost generation plan, supported by a fiiiancing
strategy from both public and private sources. !ti particular, we will seck private scctor bids
for at least one new base load ?Dwer plant. We will implement a program to procure pcwer
from small plants transparently and competitiveiy. We will also begin the linaiicial
restructuringo f the sector.

4.      Poverty Reduction Strategy

4.1     The Government has approved a National Strategy for Accelerated Poverty
Reduction - "Unlocking the PoteRtial". We have consulted widely with different sectors of
society in every Division across the country, as well as with stakeholder groups including
Members o f Parliament from both major parties, the business community, NCOs and
academics as we have preparedthe strategy.

4.2     Bangladesh is broadly "on track" in relation to a number o f the Milletinitmi
Development Goals (MDGs). Infant mortality has been falling m q e rapidly that the trend
rate required to meet the MDCs by 2015. Child mortality has been falling at close to the
required rate. Enrolment inprimaryand secondary scliools has been increasing more qtiickly
than the required trend. The gender gap in prixpiy and secondaryschool enrolment has bccn
virtually eliminated. As a mark of environmental progress, tree cover has increased ft-aiii 7
percent ofthe country in 1990 tc 11 percent iri 2000.




                                              62

                                                                                             Annex 5




4.3      Income poverty feI1 from 59 percent in 1991 to 50 percent in 2000 - an annual
decline of about 1.5 percent. It has probably fallen further since then in view of the steady
economic growth of the last five years, but faster trend reduction of 2 percent a ycar would
be needed to halvepovertyby 2015. Attainment of the goal, therefore, now requires that the
growth o f income per head accelerates to 4-5 percent a year, coupled with a ftirther
slowdown in populationgrowth. This requiresthat GDP growth should accelerateto around
7 percent a year and that total fertility falls further. The recent progress towards the MDGs
has been shared across almost all regions and household types. However, reduction of the
gap between the poorest and the rest of society remains a challenge. These inequalities and
the weak position of the poorest could cause divergence in meeting the MDGs. These are
substantial challenges and we shall seek the help of our development partners in meeting
them.

4.4     The main priorities o f the NSAPWPRSP are (i) employment, (ii) nwtritiori, (iii)
quality education, (iv) local govcrnance, (v) maternal health, (vi} sanitation and safe water.
(vii) criminaljustice and (viii) monitoring.

4.5     The NSAPRidentifies four major StrategicBlocks to achievethese goals.

e        Strategic Block 1 - Pro-aoor growth - Growth depends importantly on the rate of
        growth of the capital stock, This reqaires raising the rate of investment. The
        Government is detennined to create a climate that is friendly to private investment.
        These include fiscal incentives, improved tax administration, making land available,
        facilitating women's entrepreneurship and the upgrading of technology, enhancing
        quality control, improving labor standards and supportive credit policies. The
        Government is also committed to remove obstacles, such as lack o f reliable powcr
        and gas, poor transport, inadequatetelecommunications facilities, poor port facilities.
        delays and corruption, the law and order situation and frequent political agitation.
        Raising the investment rate will have to be accompaniedby higher savings by both
        the privateand public sectors. Investmentprospectsshould also be improved through
        maintaining prudent macroeconomic policies, including raising tax revenues,
         improvingthe quality and effectivenessvf public spendingand opening the economy
        through trade liberalization and reducing average protection to not more than the
        average protection level of developing countries.          Reforms of banking, state
        enterprises and energy should be completed. The regulatoryenvironment, too, needs
        to continue to develop.
        Strategic Block 21- Critical Sectors for Pro-Poor Economic Growth - (i) Agriculture
        and niral development must be the top priorities for rapid povertyreduction, because
        three-quarters of the population live in rural areas and 85 percent of the poor earn
        their living there. The Government aims to create an &ironment                 in which
        production of major crops is intensified while other high value crops, such as
        vegetables, fruits and horticulture are ewouraged. We also intend to cncout-agc the
        emerging fisheries, poultry and livestock industries. Likewise we aim to encourage
        the forestry industry to increase timber supplies and preserve biodiversity. (ii) `Thc
        Government has adopted a National Water Poky to ensure that the country's walcr
        is nianaged effectively. Flood control i s a priority, together with irrigation. drainagc




                                               63

                                                                                           Annex 5



       and the provision of clean water. (iii)Small and medium enterprises play a key role
       in employment generation, and we intend to encouragetheir developmcnt through a
       simplified regulatory framework, improved market information, a hassle-free tax
       system and appropriate credit facilities. (iv) The informal sector, too, offers the
       prospect o f rapid employment creation and needs to be helped through adequate
       training, access to infrastructure and development services. NGOs niay have a key
       role to play here. (VI infrastructure is cntciai for fast economic growth. We
                               Good
       intend to complete ongoing reforms in the power sector, prepare an action plan to
       address the financial problems of the major power utilities, prioritize public
       investment in power and purchase power cost effectively from independent powcr
       producers. Gas is a valuable resource, and we aim to improve the performanceof this
       sector by unbundling its parts, extending the national grid and improving its
       finances. (vi) We intcnd to improve the transport system, including a focus on
       maintaining existing roads better, refomling the railways, and encouraging private
       participation in ports. (vii) Tourism offers employment opportunities, centered on
       Bangladesh's beaches, cultural spots and eco-sites, especially the Sundarbans. (viii)
       The Government recognizes that telecctiitiiunications and infomation technology
       are likely to be important future growth areas. It is encouragingprivate participation
       in telecommunications, the availability of internet facilities in rural areas and the
       creation o f ahigh-tech park.
0      Stratepic BlockIII- Social Safety Nets :The NSAPR aims to build on the country's
       already robust portfolio of social safety net programs which transfcr resources in
       cash or kind directly to the poor. These programs target vulnerable gruups, iticluding
       the poor; women, disadvantaged groups and old people, They also aim to help keep
       children in school, promote girls' education in rural areas, cushion the poor against
       the effects o f natural disasters and provide shelter to the homeless. We intend to
       improve the targeting and widen the coverage of these programs while stetmiiins
       leakages.
      Strategic Block IV - Human Develooment - We intend to invest in people through
       encouraging the provision of high quality education, improved healtlicare, bctker
       nutrition and clean water and sanitation. We aim to encourage early cducstion,
       especially in rural areas, in cooperation with NGOs. We aim to ensure that all
      children have access to primary schools and complete their priniary education. We
       are focused on improving the quality of secondary education atid the provision of
       vocational training. The governance, access and facilities of tertiary education need
       to be improved with greater focus on professional degrees. In health, the
       Government intends to expand the provision o f essential services, improve women's
       and maternal healthcare, strengthen meastires to combat communicable diseases and
      raise awareness of measures that people can take to redpee the risk of non-
      communicable diseases. The Government aims to continue and enhance its nutrition
      programs. It is also developing a strategy for clean water and sanitation within its
      overall water strategy.

4.6   The NSAPWPRSP set out a challenging agenda, which is conitncnsurate with the
country's needs. Our subsequent consultations and discussions have reinforced maiiy of ihc
messages, notably thc need to cnsure that thc poorcst, especially thc hungry, pttrticipatc in




                                              64

                                                                                          Annex 5



development. We are also concerned that growth is unevenly distributed, and that the poor
need to be linked to the sources of growth. Inequality itself may retard growth, especially if
the humancapacity of the poor is not developed. We recognizethe need to tackle inequality
betweengenders in socialprogress.


5.      PRSPMonitoring and Implementation

5.1     Monitoring is projected as one of the strategic agendas of the NSAPR, because
realization of our poverty goals and measuringthe effectivenessof our policies will require
careful monitoring of both processes and outcomes. In addition to the normal data soiirces
for tracking social progress, we intend to conduct special surveys with the express purpose
of benchmarkingprogress towards the MDGs. Monitoring and evaluation o f the NSAPR
wili require a vigilant institutional mechanism.The National SteeringCommittee, therefore,
has been transformed into an Implementation Review Committee, which will cotiduct a
review annually, possibly ahead of a meetingwith donors. A TechnicalCommittee under the
Principal Secretary will monitor the consistency of programs chosen under the Three-year
Investment Program (TYIP). The Household Income and Expenditure Survey (HIES)
module under Bangladesh Bureau o f Statistics (BBS) will be supplemented by an MDG
attainment module. Independent research institutes and civil society can monitor progress
towards the MDGs andgive credibility to the exercise.

6,      Conclusion

6.1
range ofpolicies to improvegrowth andreducepoverty-despite domestic pressures and thc
        Bangladeshhas made good progress in the past three year in implementingthe broad

unfavorableimpact of highglobal commodityprices, especially oil. We have benefited from
the support of our development partners, inclliding the World Bank. We have laid out a
challenging agenda for the medium-term, and the Government is keenly aware o f the hcavy
responsibility that it bears for pursuing refomis determinedly for the benefit of all our
people. Further adjustment lending from the International Development Association under
Development Support Credit I11 will play a crucial role. We believe that this will eiiliance
our ability to meet our poverty goais and encourage the private sector growth which is
crucial to creatingemploymentand raising inconieso f the poor,




                                                                    Sincerely,




                                                               (M.Saifur Rahrnan)




                                             65

u
M
c
T




           I




                                                             1           1

   n
   * v1
     9          O O N O O O O O O O O O O O Q O O O O O       m o P o o l n
                                                              =!?ZZZZ
                m m
                  N   m m i n z ! p ~ v omm m- m r n - irn in cnnrb-uz
                                                                    *   N


    a9




                                                                              -m
                                                                               'E
                                                                               a
                                                                               1
                                                                               m
                                                                               U
                                                                               c

                                                                               .-m
                                                                                9,
                                                                                m

                                                                               P
                                                                               U
                                                                               3
                                                                                f

                                                                                n
                                                                                E5
                                                                                a
                                                                                -m
                                                                                3m

                                                                                v)
                                                                                ._
                                                                                C
                                                                                E
                                                                                9
                                                                                U

MAP SECTION


