Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB1838 
Project Name 
Bangladesh Development Support Credit III
 
Region 
South Asia Region 
Sector 
Industry/trade, energy, central govt. admin., finance 
Project ID 
P090832
 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Bangladesh
 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
September 21, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
September 28, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
November 17, 2005 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Faster economic growth has helped Bangladesh to reduce the poverty rate by about 1 percentage point per year 
since 1990.  Progress on social measures, too, has been encouraging.  Primary enrollment for both genders is near 
universal, and the secondary enrollment rate has more than doubled since independence.  Bangladesh has already 
met the Millennium Development Goal (MDG) on gender parity in school enrollment at secondary and primary 
levels.  The child mortality rate has halved, and life expectancy has increased by more than 15 years.  A decline in 
the total fertility rate from 6 children in 1975 to 3 reduced population growth to 1.5 percent a year by the mid-
1990s.  Nonetheless, a formidable development agenda remains given the low starting base.  Almost half the 
population is still under the poverty line, over half the country is functionally illiterate, child malnutrition rates are 
among the highest in the developing world, and maternal mortality rates, albeit lower than in India, Pakistan, and 
Nepal in the region, remain among the highest in the developing world.  Despite expanded access to education, 
poor quality pervades the system and completion rates are very low: in primary education for instance, a third of 
enrolled children do not complete the full cycle.  A weak governance environment remains Bangladesh
’s major 
development challenge. 
Improving 
governance
 remains a high priority and a critical challenge for Bangladesh.  Already, a number of key 
measures supported by the DSCs have had a positive impact in reducing opportunities for rent seeking and state 
capture.  Related reforms have sought to strengthen sectoral governance in banking, health, education, and SOEs, 
especially energy as outlined above.  The activities of the NCBs, previously a huge source of corruption through 
directed credit, have been curtailed through tighter MOUs.  The culture of non-payment to energy companies has 
been another root of systemic corruption.  Recent successful efforts to reduce the stock of arrears to power 
companies and improved collection of current bills have addressed this partially.  In addition, cross-sectoral 
reforms to strengthen public administration, tax administration, procurement, financial management, and set-up 
oversight institutions will have long-term benefits once these are fully effective.  Nonetheless, a huge unfulfilled 
agenda remains and a comprehensive anti-corruption strategy backed by sustained political commitment is very 
much needed.  Also, given that the underlying institution building process is necessarily a long-term and complex 
one, realism is warranted in setting expectations: local capacity is weak and the Bank and the rest of the donor 
community will need to stay engaged and provide support over a long period to see the process through. 
In the area of economic management, a good record of implementing first generation reforms – macro stability 
and domestic deregulation in particular – has enabled good economic growth.  The Government recognizes the 
need to now deepen the structural reforms program for sustaining and accelerating growth performance; 
particularly, by continuing with trade liberalization and further strengthening the sectoral and cross-sectoral 
underpinnings of the investment climate.  Its program on trade liberalization is designed to improve resource 
allocation in the economy and remove the anti-export bias of the present unduly high system of protection.  
Page  2
Reforms of NCBs are aimed at improving financial intermediation and the provision of credit to the private 
sector.  Reduction of state-
owned enterprises’ (SOEs’) losses and the transfer of enterprises to the private sector 
should reduce fiscal pressures and enhance productivity.  Restructuring of the energy sector, in turn, should help 
attract private investment and avoid power shortages.     
These efforts have produced relatively favorable development outcomes.  Per-capita GDP growth has averaged 4 
percent over the FY03-05, the highest 3-year average since independence.  In FY05, GDP growth remained above 
5
percent even though floods caused widespread damage, while monetary, fiscal, and external sector targets 
stayed within the medium-term macro framework agreed with the IMF despite severe external pressures.  
Although the latest poverty data are still being collected, proxy indicators suggest that good progress on poverty 
reduction and social development has continued in recent years. 
Prospects of annual growth remaining around 5-6 percent over the next 2-3 years are good as long as Bangladesh 
maintains macro stability and sustains past saving and investment rates and the current pace of economic reforms.  
As suggested by a recent World Bank report,  growth could accelerate to perhaps 7-8 percent if the Government 
scales up its efforts to reduce regulatory costs, address infrastructure constraints (especially ports and power), 
deepen and improve the efficiency of the financial sector, improve labor quality, and further lower trade barriers.  
Investment rates would need to rise substantially to a level unlikely to be covered by higher private savings alone: 
this will require fiscal prudence (cutting budget deficits, lowering SOE losses etc.), continued donor support, and 
significant increases in foreign capital inflows. 
The Government’s recently completed PRSP recognizes these challenges and opportunities.  It lays out ambitious 
development goals and emphasizes the Government’s commitment to reforms.  The I-PRSP was presented to the 
Boards of the IDA and the IMF in June 2003.  The Boards agreed that it provided a cohesive policy framework 
for implementing a pro-poor growth strategy.  The Government has asked donors to support implementation of 
the I-PRSP and PRSP.  The IMF is providing a three-year, SDR 347 million PRGF program, due to end in 
December 2006: the 3rd PRGF review was approved by the IMF Board on June 29, 2005.   The Bank has 
provided a series of Development Support Credits, of which the proposed credit is the third, to back broad-based 
structural and governance-related reforms.  
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
As in the case of the DSCs I and II, the reforms supported under the proposed program would strengthen 
governance and have a positive impact on economic growth, exports and better incentives for private sector 
investment, with positive implications for poverty reduction.  Over the longer term, progress in institutional 
reforms supported by the Credit is expected to promote sustained macroeconomic stability, more effective 
government institutions, private sector development, including privatization, improved public service delivery, 
and enhanced transparency and good governance.  These reforms will help reduce corruption and improve the 
environment for private investment.
 
During the negotiations for DSC II, a few key areas were identified where it was agreed that Government would 
pursue further reforms during FY05, in addition to maintaining progress under reforms supported by DSC I and 
II.  These 
indicative triggers
 for DSC III were specified in the DSC II Memorandum of the President, approved 
by the Board in July 2004.  The status of progress on the indicative triggers is as follows: 
i. 
Satisfactory implementation of the agreed macroeconomic framework under the PRGF: Done
.
The IMF’s 
PRGF remains on broadly on track, and the 3
rd
 PRGF review was approved by the IMF Board on June 29 
2005. 
ii. 
Bring Rupali Bank to the Point of Sale by December 2004:
 
Done
.
Implement agreed strategy for resolution of other NCBs: Done
.
iii. 
Present to Parliament by June 2005 Financial Reporting Act, including provision for independent 
oversight Financial Reporting Council.  Ongoing
.
Consultants have been appointed to draft the Act.  
Page  3
iv. 
Reduce manufacturing SOE financial losses by at least 10 percent:
 
Done
.
v. 
Maintain Government arrears at no more than 3 months of receivables.  Reduce receivables from 
autonomous public entities and private customers to not more than 6 months’ bills by December 2004 and 
3
months by June 2005.
 
Encouraging progress, but trigger not likely to be fully accomplished.
The 
arrears are mainly due from Municipalities, City Corporations, WASA and Jute mills.  The Government 
has decided that the Municipalities and City Corporations would pay 100 percent of their current bills 
from September onwards, pay off their arrears in a phased manner over the next year.  For the Jute Mills, 
the Ministry of Finance and Power Division is discussing a plan to extend a loan from Ministry of 
Finance to the mills to pay their previous power bill, to be used to pay the outstanding liabilities.
 
vi. 
Announce decision on sale of captive private power to the grid.  Done
.
The Government has announced 
the decision and consultants have been appointed to draft a policy for captive power sales to the grid. 
vii. 
Announce time-bound plan for power sector financial restructuring.
 
Ongoing.
Consultants have been 
appointed to draft a power sector financial recovery plan. 
viii. 
Remove all quantitative restrictions, except those on grounds of health, national security, religion, and 
environmental protection:
 
Done.
ix. 
Initiate implementation of NBR modernization, including strengthening the functions of the Board, 
especially audit and information technology, through appropriate legislation and other administrative 
changes:
 
Done
.
x. 
Implement first phase of new budget process for FY06 budget in at least four selected ministries, 
including allocation of resources for programs integrating recurrent and capital spending within the 
medium-term expenditure framework and in alignment with PRSP priorities:
 
Done
.
xi. 
Implement new personnel management system, including extended merit-based promotions, transfers 
within clusters, revised compensation system and enhanced training:
 
Done.
xii. 
Present to the Parliament procurement law, including provision for concession contracting/ BOT:
 
Ongoing
.
A
draft procurement law has been prepared which will be finalized and approved by the 
Cabinet before the DSC III Board date.  
xiii. 
Anti-Corruption Commission staffed and operational: Done
.
3. Preliminary 
description 
The proposed Credit is the third in a planned series of programmatic operations that, alongside the IMF-supported 
PRGF program, supports the implementation of the Government’s reform agenda, as laid out in its I-PRSP and 
PRSP documents.  Building on the previous two DSCs, the proposed DSC 3 focuses on issues relating to 
macroeconomic stability and structural reforms in the financial sector, reduction of SOE losses, establishment of 
an energy regulatory body and pricing framework, trade openness, strengthening budgetary institutions, and 
government effectiveness, integrity, and transparency.  Governance-related reforms, at both macro and sector 
levels, are very much at the heart of the proposed operation. 
 
4.    Environment Aspects 
 
Many of the reforms contained in the policy agenda covered by DSC III may be expected to deliver 
environmental benefits through the more efficient use of resources.  The Credit will support implementation of 
agreed actions suggested in the draft Country Environmental Analysis (CEA) discussed with the Government in 
July 2005.
 
5.    Tentative financing 
Source: IDA 
($200m.) 
 Total 
$200 
m 
 
Page  4
6.    Contact point 
Sandeep Mahajan 
Senior Economist 
South Asia Region 
Telephone:  (202) 458-0287 
Fax:  (202) 522-0356 
Email: smahajan@worldbank.org
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
