Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16812
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
PUBLIC HOSPITAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(Loan No. 3516-KO)
June 26, 1997
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department 1
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency IUnit   =  Korean Won (W)
At appraisal    =  US$1 = W 757
At completion    =  USI $1- W 892
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAI, YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATFIONS AND ACRONYMS
BM\A         13ur-au of Medical Affairs
DRG          Diagnosis Related (Groups
ESC          Equipment Selection Committee
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GOK          Government of Korea
GPN          Gieneral Procuremnent Notice
IIMD         Hlospital Management Divisionl
ICB          Interniational Competitive Bidding
ICR          Im-nplementation Completion Report
IFB          linvitation For Bids
LNMD         Logistic Management Division
MOHISA       Ministry of Health and Social Affairs (name at appraisal)
MOHW         Ministrv of Health and Welfare (name at completion)
NCD          Non-Communicable Disease
NiH          National Institute of IHealth
NHI          National Health Insurance
NMC          National Medical Center
OSROK        Office of Supplyv Republic of Korea (name at appraisal)
PCR          Project Completion Report
P1l          Pub-lic Hospital
PlU          Project Implementation tJnit
PPS          Prospective Payment System
SAROK        Supply Administration, Republic of Korea (name at completion)
SNIJ         Seoul National U Jniversity
SOE          Statement of Expense
Vice lPresideit:  .Jean-Michel Severiino. EAPVP
Director:       Javad Khalilzadch-Shirazi. EA I DR
D)ivision Chief:   Svcln Buriiester, IA Al [R
Tassk Manager:  C(arol Ball, EA II IR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface ...............................................                                       iii
Evaluation Summary ...............................................                            iv
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives .1
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives                             .3
C.      Implementation Record - Major Factors Affecting the Project   . 4
D.  Project Sustainability                                .6
E.  Bank Group Performance                                  .6
F.  Borrower Performance                                   .7
G. Assessment of Outcome                                   .8
H. Future Operation                                    .8
I.  Key Lessons Leared                                     .8
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment ...........................................9
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits ..........................................      11
Table 3:  Project Timetable ..........................................               12
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual. 13
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .................................. 14
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation .......................................... 15
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project ..........................................     16
Table 8A: Project Costs ..........................................                   18
Table 8B: Project Financing ..........................................               19
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits ..........................................     20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ..........................................       21
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ...................... 22
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..........................................    23
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ..........................................        24
ANNEXES
Annex A: Completion Mission Aide Memoire
Annex B: Borrower's Evaluation Report submitted as a contribution to the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






iii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
PUBLIC HOSPITAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
LOAN 3516-KO
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Public Hospital
Modernization Project in Korea, for which Loan 3516-KO in the amount of US$30
million equivalent was approved on September 1, 1992. It was signed on October 2,
1992 and became effective on January 29, 1993.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1996. Final disbursement took place on
March 26, 1997. The undisbursed balance of US$197,221.71 was canceled on April 30,
1997.
The ICR was prepared by Ms. Carol Ball, assisted by Messrs. Willy de Geyndt
and Sing-Zak Sung. The ICR was reviewed by Mr. Sven Burmester, Division Chief,
EA1HR and Mr. Walter Schwermer, Project Advisor, EA1DR. The Borrower's
evaluation and comments are included in an unedited form as Annex B.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's last supervision/completion
mission in October-November 1996. This mission visited the National Medical Center
(NMC), National Institute of Health (NIH) and sample public hospitals (PHs). The
information in this report is based on materials in the Project Implementation Index File,
Divisional Black Books, and a submission from the Borrower dated February 18, 1997 as
well as information received during the completion mission. The Borrower contributed
significantly to the preparation of the ICR. Although requested by the Bank, no comment
was provided on the draft ICR prepared by the Bank.






iv
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
PUBLIC HOSPITAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3516-KO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The overall objectives of the project were to: (a) increase the access by rural and
urban poor to medical care services, especially for early detection of non-communicable
diseases (NCDs); (b) improve the quality of medical care in public hospitals (PHs); (c)
assist the country in protecting the health of the population through a more effective
control of the safety of drugs and the quality of food, and through monitoring NCDs; and
(d) address critical health sector policy issues focusing mainly on sector financing and
cost containment.
Implementation Experience and Results
2.    Overall implementation was satisfactory. The project was closed on schedule and
the costs did not exceed the budget. Counterpart funds were adequately provided
throughout the life of the project. Actual loan disbursements were about US$29.8 million
or 99.3% of the loan amount. Disbursements conformed to all Bank's procedures
including the use of Special Accounts. Over 95% of the biomedical equipment was
procured under the international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. The project
encountered three difficulties during the first one and a half years of implementation.
However, these problems, (a) the non-adherence to the Bank's requirement of 60 days
between issuance of General Procurement Notice (GPN) and first Invitation For Bids
(IFB), (b) the delay in launching the four project studies, and (c) the high disbursement
lag, did not adversely affect project implementation. Effective implementation during
later years made up for the initial time loss. Overdue submission of audit reports was a
problem during the project's implementation, but all audits were provided before project
closing. All other covenants were in full compliance.
3.   In general, the project was able to meet its objectives as stated in the SAR (para.
6). The project had some success in its efforts to increase the participating institutions'
healthcare and treatment capacity through the provision of training and equipment. The
inpatient treatment capacity in the 10 public hospitals has not increased significantly.
However, outpatient treatment services increased from 951,713 patients in 1993 to
1,063,507 patients in 1996, or about 10%. Futhermore, as the specialized equipment and
associated training and policies become more fully institutionalized, it is expected that
treatment capacity will continue to grow for several more years to come.



v
4.     With the expansion of outpatient services in the public hospitals, there is reason to
assume that the project made significant progress in the provision of access to the urban
and rural poor. 'I/ Furthermore, the Government's focus on policy reform and the priority
given to this objective both support an assumption that there will be continuing
improvement in the PE's capacity to treat the poor. Within the NIH, the project also
procured and installed specialized drug testing equipment to support the Institute's efforts
to monitor and control the safety of drugs and food.
5.     Despite some delays in the implementation of the studies component, all four
studies were successfully completed. The findings of the studies have provided a
framework for policy dialogue in the Health Sector. 2/ It has also stimulated an increase
in the interaction and cooperation of researchers in the Health Sector.
Sustainability
6.    The Government has a long-term policy to commit the financial and human
resources that are required to provide affordable, high quality, health care services
throughout the nation. Furthermore, the Government has placed a priority on the
provision of healthcare services for the rural and urban poor. The Government also has a
clear understanding of the current issues and needs in the sector and, through the project,
has improved its capacity to formulate future policy changes. It is, therefore, reasonable
to assume that the outputs of the project will be sustained for years to come.
Bank Group Performance
7.     Bank performance was generally satisfactory in the preparation of this project.
Earlier sector work and previous projects contributed to a clear understanding of the
policy issues and therefore, reduced the number of staff weeks required for project
design, processing and implementation.
8.    Bank supervision totaled about 25 staff weeks. This amount of time commitment
is relatively low by Bank standards.
Borrower Performance
9.     Borrower performance during project preparation was satisfactory. This led to the
less than average processing time and low Bank staff input.
10.   Despite start-up delays, the PIU was able to complete the project on schedule and
achieve near full disbursement. Cooperation with Bank missions during the project cycle
l / Urban and rural poor make up a significant percentage of outpatients in public hospitals.
2 / For a more detailed description of the policy studies completed, see Table 7.



vi
was commendable and the Borrower made a major effort to support the Bank during the
preparation of the ICR. Furthermore, communications with the Bank were generally
accurate and prompt. This was particularly the case in the timely submission of Progress
Reports to the Bank and Status Reports to visiting missions. Counterpart funds for the
project were provided without major difficulty and project institutions did not experience
any shortages of funds for recurrent expenditures.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
11.    Although the project was rated as satisfactory and probably could be rated as
highly satisfactory in some areas, the ICR preparation team found that this project did not
have an appropriate set of monitorable performance indicators. The expected
outputs/impacts were not quantified in any significant way, nor were the stated
monitorable indicators found to be very useful in the evaluation of the project. 3/ This
project was prepared using significant professional inputs from both the Borrower and the
Task Manager and selected consultants.
12.    There are a couple of lessons that should be noted.  The first is that project
implementation problems need to be resolved as early as possible in the project's
implementation period. To do this, there is a need to maintain close and frequent
cooperation between the Borrower and the Bank. This is particularly important during
the first few months of project implementation. The second lesson is that the project
came to realize that continuity problems were often caused by mandatory staff rotation
policies. It also found that, to some extent, these problems could be mitigated by
mandatory requirements for better communication and cooperation between the outgoing
and incoming officers.
13.    Due to Korea's graduation from  borrower status in June 1995, there will be no
further Bank-assisted operations in the country.
3 /  It is important to understand that this discussion does not present a need for more data about the state of
development in the sector. There is an abundance of data available. From the progress reports, etc., it is not
difficult for the ICR preparation team to understand what has happened in the project. The problem is that the
project was designed in such a way that there are no clearly stated targets for the objectives, only general
statements using the verbs, "increase, improve, assist, and address". This lack of clarity prevents an accuate
comparison from being made between the targets and outcomes/impact in the project.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
PUBLIC HOSPITAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(Loan 3516-KO)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    The objectives of the project were to: (a) increase the access by rural and urban
poor to medical care services, especially for early detection of non-communicable diseases
(NCDs); (b) improve the quality of medical care in public hospitals; (c) assist the country
in protecting the health of the population through a more effective control of the safety of
drugs and the quality of food, and through monitoring NCDs; and (d) address critical health
sector policy issues focusing mainly on sector financing and cost containment.
2.    To achieve these objectives, the project: (a) upgraded the biomedical equipment in
selected provincial and municipal PHs in less developed provinces and in the National
Medical Center (NMC) in Seoul for improving their capacity to prevent, diagnose and treat
NCDs; (b) enhanced the equipment infrastructure of the Korean National Institute of
Health (NIH) for better quality control functions on food, water, drugs and vaccines; and (c)
supported training and relevant research studies needed to address critical health sector
issues and to establish a basis for the needed health sector policy changes.
Sectoral Development Objectives
3.    The Government has made a number of policy decisions to make the health sector
more equitable and efficient. It has enacted legislation to provide medical insurance
coverage to the whole population as of July 1, 1989. It has divided the country into eight
large medical regions and 140 Service Areas; it has created and defined a referral system to
assure and orderly flow of patients within and among these eight regions. And, most
important, it has expressed the political will and commitment to assure that in the 1990's
health care services of consistently good quality should be available, affordable and
accessible to the whole population.  These policy measures are in line with the
Government's detenmination to develop Korea's social sectors more quickly, and, in the
case of the health sector, to respond to increased medical demand resulting from the
universalization of medical insurance, rising incomes, technology innovations, an aging
population structure, and the shift in the epidemiological profile from communicable to
NCD.



2
Policy Issues
4.    Korea's rapid economic growth in the last two decades has brought about an
impressive increase in real living standards and equally impressive improvements in
traditional health indicators. Economic success and the control of communicable diseases
have, however, brought about a changed disease burden. The major causes of death and
disability are now noncommunicable diseases. There is growing concern in Korea over
equity issues, including a perceived increase in income inequality and greater inequity in
access to quality medical care. Policy makers for health care now face three main issues:
(a) equity - further redressing regional imbalances and ensuring financial access for all; (b)
cost containment in an environment where supply and demand are both increasing; and (c)
monitoring of the quality of medical care.
5.    An immediate implication of the universal health insurance coverage was an
increased demand for medical services in both rural and urban areas. With rising personal
incomes, demand for quality medical services also increased. Obsolete equipment had to be
replaced. Regional imbalances dictated that rural hospitals, health centers and clinics had to
be upgraded. The increased demand, improved equity and higher quality medical services
meant more health sector financing. To avoid escalation of the percentage share of health
expenditures in the national gross domestic product (GDP), cost containment became a
focal point in the government health policy.
Evaluation of Objectives
6.    This project was built upon two earlier projects and one sector study and
supplemented the immediate past project. The sector study focused on the effects and
implications of health insurance and proposed options in the design and organization of the
insurance system. The overall aim was to broaden access to all for medical services but
within an affordable and cost-effective framework. The Population Project under Loan
1774-5-KO in 1979 aimed at reducing fertility and infant and maternal mortality,
particularly in rural areas. The Health Technology Project under Loan 3330-KO in 1991
supported regionalization, improving access and enhancing equipment management
efficiency, through on-lending to private hospitals.
7.    The project was designed to continue addressing the access issue by placing
emphasis on urban and rural public hospitals catering to the poor. The quality issue was
addressed through the financing of modem biomedical equipment, and an action program
addressing critical sectoral issues supported by relevant research studies, publications on
health policy and financing, and a national consensus building program. The beneficiaries
of this project were public hospitals and this was to complement the previous project's
emphasis on private hospitals. Further, the health of the population was protected through a
more effective control of the safety and quality of food, water, drugs and vaccines, and
through monitoring of NCDs. The project also addressed critical health sector policy
issues, focusing mainly on sector financing and cost containment.



3
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
8.    The project met its overall objectives as stated in the SAR (para. 19) and its main
achievements include:
(a) The 10 participating PHs were well selected to provide a broad service area
throughout the country. The inpatient treatment capacity in the 10 public hospitals
has not increased significantly from 1993 through 1996. However, the outpatient
service delivery has increased from 951,713 patients in 1993 to 1,063,507 patients
in 1996, or about 10%. This increase provided greater access to medical care to the
rural and urban poor. 4/ The quality of medical care in these 10 hospitals and the
NMC has been improved through the provision of modem equipment financed by
the project. Furthermore, as the equipment, training and policy refonns become
fully established and institutionalized, it is expected that additional capacity and
quality will be gained over the next several years. In addition to its major function
of providing acute care service to the poor, the NMC has now expanded the scope of
its coverage to include chronic care services.
(b) Project-financed new research and testing equipment for NIH enable it to monitor
the safety of drugs and food, vaccines, antigens and communicable diseases more
accurately and effectively.
(c) The completion of four major studies addressed the critical health sector policy
issues.  These studies were completed on time and included: DRG-based
Prospective Payment System in Korea, Development of Econometric Model for
Optimum Allocation of Health Resources, Health Sector Financing and Expenditure
Study; and An Impact Evaluation of the National Health Insurance in Korea. All
four studies were of high quality and have increased the policy dialogue and health
services research expertise within Korea.
(d) Equipment procured with the loan proceeds was relevant to the project objectives
and has increased the quality of health services in all project institutions.
Management of equipment usage was fully satisfactory.
4  See footnote 1.



4
C.  IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING
THE PROJECT
Implementation Record
9.    Overall responsibility for project implementation was under the Bureau of
Medical Affairs (BMA) of the Ministry of Health and Welfare (MOHW)5/. The Hospital
Management Division (HMD) in BMA acted as the Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
and was assisted by the Logistics Management Division (LMD) in MOHW. The already
established Equipment Selection Committee (ESC) was responsible for equipment
selection in accordance with the Criteria for Selecting Equipment (Annex 9 in SAR) and
the Equipment Selecting Procedures (Annex 10 in SAR). Equipment procurement,
including all post-procurement services, was undertaken in conjunction with MOHW and
project institutions by the Office of Supply, Republic of Korea (OSROK)6/. The Policy
Implementation Committee supervised the implementation of the Action Program and
Training. Specialists/researchers from related Institutes and Seoul National University
(SNU) carried out the four studies. Management of project implementation was
satisfactory.
10.   Based on the original allocation of loan proceeds in Annex 8 of the SAR, the final
allocation by components (Table 5) showed that the loan allocation to the NIH remained
the same while NMC and PHs experienced about 30% deviation from the original
estimates. Furthermnore, MOHW regarded the NMC as being very similar to the PHs.
Thus, the NMC and PHs were considered as a single entity for the purpose of allocation.
This in effect, combined the two components into one for funding purposes. The Bank
accepted the reasoning and the final disbursement of US$19.9 million for NMC and PHs
was within the originally agreed ceiling of US$20 million. This did not affect the
outcome of the project because both NMC and all PHs are under MOHW and receive
yearly government budget allocation - any surplus or shortage would level off.
11.   Despite some delay in launching the studies during the start-up phase, all four
studies were successfully completed before the Closing Date (Table 7). The outcome of
the project, therefore, was not adversely affected by the delay. Training activities were
satisfactorily implemented as planned and sufficiently funded by the national budget.
12.   Disbursements were satisfactory, although there were disbursement lags in the
early years of project implementation due to the longer than anticipated selection process
for PHs and for equipment as mentioned in Annex 9 and 10 of the SAR. Total
disbursements reached US$29.8 million or 99.3% of the total loan amount. The amount
of loan cancellation was US$0.2 million, which was less than 1% of the loan amount.
5/  Previously known as Ministry of Health and Social Affairs (MOHSA).
6/  The new name is now Supply Administration, Republic of Korea (SAROK).



5
13.   During the initial period of equipment procurement, the mandatory requirement of
a 60 day period between the publication of the GPN and announcement of the first IFB,
as stipulated in Section 2.8 of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines dated May, 1992, had
not been observed due to the change of administration officers. However, this did not
result in a reduction of the total number of responses and the number of countries
submitting bids, and as a result, bid prices were not higher than other cases of bid-inviting
activities. Furthermore, all embassies in Seoul had been duly informed. The Bank, after
confirming the above outcome, granted a waiver on this violation of the Procurement
Guidelines as an exceptional case and advised that no further recurrence would be
acceptable. The rest of the procurement was carried out smoothly. All biomedical
equipment was selected in accordance with the criteria as agreed with the Bank and all
procurement activities followed agreed procedures (para. 8 above). A post-award sample
review of bid evaluation reports and bidding documents for ICB (over 95% of total
amount of equipment purchased) showed no irregularities whatsoever '/, thus providing
evidence that that all contracts had been awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders. All
equipment was purchased at prices close to the original estimate and there was no cost
overrun (local or foreign).
14.   Submission of audit reports and the separate opinion on Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs) was late, but all required reports were submitted before the Closing
Date of the Loan. There were no qualified opinions either in the audit report or in the
separate opinion on SOEs. SOEs were routinely sample-checked by visiting missions
and there were no irregularities. All other covenants were in full compliance.
15.   Despite the problems mentioned above, the project was well implemented with all
planned activities achieved. The loan was closed on schedule. There were adequate
counterpart funds from the annual MOHW budgets.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
16.   None of the problems mentioned on para. 15 have adversely affected the
implementation of this project or the achievement of project objectives. The one
identified problem was the lack of quality performance indicators to support the
implementation and evaluation of the project (para. 19).
Consulting Services
17.   Local consultants were employed to carry out the four studies and were funded
from the national budget. Their performance was highly satisfactory.
7/ Prior review was waived for this project in Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement.



6
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
18.   Effective steps have been taken to assure that the Government will be able to
provide affordable high quality health care services to the entire population of the country.
Most noticeable is the implementation of Universal Health Insurance coverage in 1989 for
all citizens. Since 1989, the has also been a narrowing of the urban/rural resource
distribution gap. In part, this has been accomplished by giving medical school graduates
the option to work in rural areas in lieu of military services, and by making Government
investments in the rural hospital and health center infrastructure to improve the diagnostic
and treatment capabilities of those lower level facilities. The Government used two Bank
loans to finance much of this effort. Using these loans, the Government also completed
four major studies which laid the framework for future policy changes to control health
expenditures, optimize utilization of resources, make rational choices of provider payment
methods and take cost containment actions. In addition, the Government has committed
sufficient human and financial resources to ensure that all the project institutions are well
managed and efficiently operated without funding problems. It is therefore reasonable to
assume that the project's outcomes will be fully sustainable in the future.
E. BANK GROUP PERFORMANCE
19.   Although the project was rated as satisfactory and probably could be rated as
highly satisfactory in some areas, the ICR preparation team found that this project did not
have an appropriate set of monitorable performance indicators. The project objectives
and expected outputs/impacts were not quantified in any significant way, nor were the
stated monitorable indicators found to be very useful in the evaluation of the project.
Thus, the team found it difficult to support the assumed ratings with quantitative findings.
However, this project was prepared using significant professional inputs from both the
Borrower and the Task Manager and selected consultants.
20.   Associated with this problem, the team also found that there are a number of
questions that remain unanswered. As an example, did the growth in Public Hospital
(PH) treatment capacity result from project inputs or was it simply a feature of a growing
economy where there was an ever expanding concern for the improvement of hospitals?
In effect, did the inputs of the project make any difference in the development of the PH
capacity? Also, what is the percentage of the treatment growth that is expected in order
for the project to be considered successful? Should the target be a 10% growth rate over
the life of the project, or perhaps 20%, or perhaps even higher? As there were no targets
identified for the project, these questions are difficult if not impossible to answer through
any type of "ex-post facto analysis". The inability to answer these important questions
must be considered, to some extent, a shortcoming in the project design and preparation.
21.   Given the above stated inadequacies in the monitorable indicators, Bank
performance was generally satisfactory in the preparation of this project. Earlier sector
work and previous projects contributed to a clear understanding of the policy issues and,



7
therefore, reduced the number of staff weeks required for project design, processing and
implementation.
22.   Bank supervision totaled about 25 staff weeks. This amount of time commitment
is relatively low by Bank standards. Bank-Borrower relations remained high throughout
the implementation period of the project.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
23.   Borrower performance during project preparation was satisfactory. This led to the
less than average processing time and low Bank staff input.
24.   Despite start-up delays mentioned on para. 11, the PIU's was able to complete the
project on schedule and achieve near full disbursement. Cooperation with Bank missions
during the project cycle was commendable and the Borrower made a major effort to
support the Bank during the preparation of the ICR. Furthermore, communications with
the Bank was generally accurate and prompt. This was particularly noted in the timely
submission of Progress Reports to the Bank and Status Reports to visiting missions.
Counterpart funds for the project was provided without major difficulty and project
institutions did not experience and shortages of funds for recurrent expenditures. These
funds financed equipment transportation and installation, equipment maintenance and
repair, consumable materials, training, etc. Throughout the implementation period, all
institutions performed well with high equipment utilization rates, few space or staff
shortages and with effective management. As a result, the overall operation of the project
was satisfactory.
25.   Covenant compliance was generally satisfactory. However, submission of audit
reports and the separate opinion on SOEs was in partial compliance because of occasional
delays (Table 10).
26.   Equipment procurement was also generally satisfactory. Biomedical equipment
was secured at reasonable prices through ICB and all contracts were awarded to the
lowest evaluated bids. All equipment was delivered, installed and fully utilized. The
recurrent expenditure of equipment operation was partly or fully recovered through the
fee-for-service payment system. There was no evidence of any maintenance problems,
shortage of spare parts or lack of consumables.
27.   The decision to not publish the GPN 60 days prior to inviting bids, which
occurred under Loan 3315-KO, was repeated under this project. One possible cause of
the recurrence was personnel change in OSROK, government central procurement
agency. New staff was transferred in the organization without proper briefing on World
bank equipment procurement procedures. Despite this incident, in general, procurement
procedures in Korea are well established, and professionally handled by OSROK which
has had a long and successful experience in handling Bank projects. This incident did not



8
result in a reduction in the total number of responses and the number of countries
submitting bids. The problem was resolved and did not adversely affect the bidding
process for equipment.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
28.   The project outcomes were rated as satisfactory in the last supervision report. Most
project objectives have been achieved and some could not be expected immediately (para.
8).  Increasing the access to medical care services can only be achieved through a
continuous and long-term process, as well as through ongoing policy changes. Quality
improvements are substantial in all of the participating institutions where major investments
in equipment have been provided. The project has also assisted NIH to upgrade its capacity
to monitor NCDs and to improve its ability to monitor the quality of food, food additives,
air pollution and drinking water, and the safety of drugs, vaccines and antigens. There are
also good prospects for sound policy changes, especially on cost containment, based in part
on the analytic work of the four studies.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
29.   Due to Korea's graduation from borrower status in 1995, there will be no future
Bank operations.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
30.   The SAR does not provide an agreed upon set of quality performance indicators
sufficient to evaluate the impact of the project. Consequently, it is difficult to present an
accurate and fair presentation of the project's effectiveness in the ICR. This important
shortcoming in the SAR must be considered a deficiency in the project's preparation and
certainly presents a lesson to be learned.
31.   Although not key lessons, there are also two other findings that should be
mentioned. The first is more obvious. Project implementation problems need to be
resolved as early as possible in the project's implementation period. To do this, there is a
need to maintain close and frequent cooperation between the Borrower and the Bank.
This is particularly important during the first few months of the project's implementation
period. In the second finding, experience under the project indicated that continuity
problems were often caused by mandatory staff rotation policies. It also found that, to
some extent, these problems could be mitigated by mandatory requirements for better
communication and cooperation between the outgoing and incoming officers.



9
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives          Substantial       Partial         Negligible       Not applicable
Macro Policies                                         a2
Sector Policies                      U                 i                                   a
Financial Objectives                                  E]               L al
Institutional Development             l               I3                Z                   l
Physical Objectives                                    5                U a
Poverty Reduction                    U                U                 El
Gender Issues                         I                U                I                  3
Other Social Objectives              C                 U                                   i
Environmental Objectives             U                 a                                   i
Public Sector Management             U                 i                                   U
Other - Private Sector
Development                         U                 U                U
B. Project Sustainability                Likely                  Unlikely                   Uncertain
(1')                      (1)                         ()
(Continued)



10
Highl,v
C. Bank Performance                     satisfactory         Satisfactory                Deficient
Identification                      D                        j                          D
Preparation                                                   Q70
Appraisal                           D                                                  0
Supervision                          J                         E                       E
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                       satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
(V)            (V)             (V)
Preparation                                                   3
Implementation                                                c 
Covenant Compliance                           al 1 
Operation (if applicable)                    Cl                              El
Highly                                            Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome              satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
E(l             ()        )    (EE



11
TABLE 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title          Purpose                       Year of approval         Status
Preceding operations
1. Population           Reducing fertility and infant and        1979         Completed 12/31/87
maternal mortality, particularly in
(Ln. 1774-5-KO)         rural areas.
2. Health Technology    Supporting the regionalization of        1991          Completed 12/31/94
service, improving access to modem
(Ln. 3330-KO)           medical technologies and improving
the efficiency of equipment
management.
Following operations
None in Health Sector



12
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle               Date Planned           Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)    12/90                12/17-12/20/90
Preparation!'                                 03/91                03/17-03/29/91
Preappraisal/Appraisal '                      08/91 / 11/91        08/26-09/06/91
Negotiations                                  07/92                06/16/92
Board Presentation                            09/92                09/01/92
Signing                                       10/92                10/02/92
Effectiveness                                 01/93                01/29/93
Project Completion                            06/30/96             12/09/963'
Loan Closing                                  12/31/96             12/31/96
Last Disbursement                             04/30/97             03/26/97
Cancellation of Remaining Funds              [04/30/97             04/30/97
1/ Preparation was largely done by the Government after the 03/91 preparation mission.
2/ Appraisal mission was considered unnecessary after preappraisal mission in 08-09/91.
3/ Source: MOHW submission dated 02/18/97.



13
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Cumulative Disbursements              FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97
Appraisal Estimate                     3.0    10.0   20.0   27.5    30.0
Actual                                 1.0    5.8    19.2   27.2    29.8
Actual as % of Estimate               33%     58%    96%    98.9%   99.3%
Date of Final Disbursement -                                   March 26, 1997



14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Inmplementation Indicators in the SAR/President's Report
In 1991               By 1996
|                                 ~~~~~~~~     ~    ~ ~~estimated  actual
(a)    L oan proceeds bv componenits (in million)
Nl-I                                  $1W.()                  $ 9.8
NMC2-'                                 $10.0                  $13.7
PHl                                    $10.0                  $ 6.2
Total                                  $30.0                  $29.8 "
(b)    Studies                                4                        4 (all completed)
1/ Expenditures on studies are not significant.
2, MOI IW considered that N MC, also a public hospital. should be combined with the other 10 PHs,
thterefore the combinied total is not exceeding the planned combined ceilingts.
3/ Figures do not add up due to rounding.



15
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not Applicable
Note: Project Operation was satisfactory in past health projects in Korea. No operation
indicators were considered necessary.



16
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study            at Appraisal/Redefined             Status      Impact of
Study
1. Health sector       The objectives of this comprehensive    Completed   Six reports had
financing and          study of national health expenditures            been published
expenditures study     were:                                            by January
(a) an analysis of the trend, sources of        1997, whiche
funds and types of expenditures                 could fofm the
through time-series data on national            basis ofig
health expenditures and related                 formulating
statistics for each year since 1985; and        policies on
cost
(b) facilitating international                  containment.
comparisons of health services and
expenditures.
2. Development of      For:                                Completed   Two books
econometric model for            .  . .                                 have been
optimum allocation of    (a) developing indirect methodology            published     l
for estimating demand of medical                              l
health resources                                                        including the
resources;                                      anlyis
analysis,    I
(b) analyzing supply status of each             optimum
health resource by each middle health           allocation of
service district (m.h.s.d.);                    health
(c) classifying 138 m.h.s.d. by their           resources by
geographical characteristics; and               districts ands
(d) making recommendations on policy            recommended
matters for planning a balanced supply          policies.
of health resources in Korea.
3. Impact evaluation of   To evaluate the impact of the NHI  Completed   Provided the
the National Health    program on the provision of health               basis for
Insurance (NHI) in     services, particularly from the                  policy
Korea                  perspective of equity, efficiency and            decisions.
quality of care.



17
continued
4. Implementation of    To evaluate alternatives to the fee-for-   Completed   (a) The
DRG-based '             service method for paying providers of            understanding
prospective payment     medical care services.                            of the health
system (PPS) in Korea                                                     care providers,
patients and
insurers in the
payment
system has
been
deepened; and
(b) a pilot
program using
the DRG-
based PPS will
be operated for
one year from
February,
1997. Further
development
will depend on
the results of
the pilot
program.
1/ DRG - Diagnosis Related Groups.



18
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)       Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)"
Local      Foreign     Total       Local        Foreign         Total
Item          Costs       Costs                   Costs        Costs
l.Equipment          -       34.6        34.6         4.5         29.8          34.3
2.Transportation    3.1        0.4         3.5        3.6            -           3.6
installation
3. Action          0.3          -          0.3        0.3            -           0.3
program and
training
4.Operations       2.2         0.2         2.4        2.4            -           2.4
& maintenance
5.Consumable       2.6        0.2          2.8        2.8            -           2.8
materials
6. TOTAL           8.2       35.4         43.6       13.6         29.8          43.4
/I Based on submission attached to MOHW's letter dated February 18, 1997.



19
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)       Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)-'|
Local   Foreign       Total    Local    Foreign       Total
Source                 Costs      Costs                Costs      Costs
IBRD                         -       30.0       30.0        -       29.8         29.8
Domestic Contribution     13.6         -        13.6    13.6           -         13.6
TOTAL                    13.6      30.0        43.6    13.6       29.8          43.4
/1 Based on submission attached to MOHW's letter dated February 1 8, 1997.



20
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable



21
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement      Section     Covenant Present  Original    Revised        Description of           Comments
type    status  fulfillment  fulfillment     covenant
date       date
Ln 3516-KO  3.03 (a)(i)    3         C                              Re-lend through MOHW  Fulfilled
to NMC
3.03(a)(ii)   3         C                              Re-lend to NIH          Fulfilled
3.03(a)(iii)  3         C                              Re-lend to              Fulfilled
municipalities/
Provinces (for public
hospitals)
3.04           10       C                              Carry out Part C of the   Fulfilled
Project in accordance
with Schedule 9
3.05(a)        10       C                              Maintain the PIU        Fulfilled
satisfactory to the Bank
3.05(b)(i)    5         C                              Comply with the criteria  Fulfilled
and procedures for
equipment selection in
accordance with
Schedule 8
3.05(b)(ii)   10        C                              Maintain the Equipment  Fulfilled
Selection Committee
satisfactory to the Bank
3.06           10       C                              Carry out the Action    Fulfilled
Program agreed with the
Bank
4.01(b)(ii)and   I      CP      06/30                  Submit to the Bank      Fulfilled, but with
(cXiv)                                                 Audit Report including a occasional delays
separate opinion on
SOEs by June 30 of each
year
Notes: (a) Covenant type (only for those used in this table)
3 Flow and utilization of project funds
10 Implementation
5 Management aspects
I Accounts/audit
(b) Status (only for those used in this table)
C Complied with
CP Compliance after delay
(c) A previous error in the supervision reports has been rectified here. The Covenant type for Sections
3.03(a)(i), (ii) and (iii) should have been 3 and not 1.



22
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No evidence of non-compliance with applicable Bank manual statements observed.



23
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of             Planned              Revised             Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks   US$(000)   Weeks   US$(000)  Weeks US$(000)
Through Appraisal    -         -          -                    16.2     50.3
Appraisal            -         -          -                     1.5      4.3
Negotiations through   -       -          -         -          10.0     30.9
Board approval
Supervision         -          -          -         85.8      21.9      83.4
Completion           -         -          3.7       14.7       3.1       8.4
TOTAL                                                        52.7    177.3
Note: No or incomplete MIS or COS data for the planned or revised in staff-weeks and in dollars.



24
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                 Specialized     Implemen    Develop-
Stage of               Month/      of          Days in    Staff Skills      -tation      ment      Types of
Project Cycle          Year        Persons     Field      Represented        Status    Objective   Problems
s
Through Appraisal      12/17-      1           4          HPE
12/20/90
03/17-     2           12         HPE, MSP
03/29/91
Appraisal through      08/26-      2           11         HPE, MSP
Board approval         09/06/92
Supervision            05-06/93    3           4          HPE,HPE,MSP          2           2       Violated Procurement Guidelines,
disbursement lag high,
10-11/93    1          5          MSP                  2           2       studies delayed,
04-05/94    1          4          MSP                  I           I       overdue audit reports (problems
were all resolved before completion)
11-12/94    2          6          HPE, MSP            HS          HS
10/95      2           7          HPE, MSP            HS          HS
10196      2           8          HPE, MSP            HS          HS
Completion             11/15/96    1                      M MSP
Note: HPE - Health and Nutrition, MSP - Management and Administration
Ratings: I - very satisfactory, 2 - satisfactory, HS - highly satisfactory



ANNEXES



Annex A
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
PUBLIC HOSPITAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT (Loan 3516-KO)
IBRD Progress Review and Proiect Completion Mission
Aide Memoire
1.    An IBRD mission consisting of W. De Geyndt and S. Sung visited Korea October
21-26, 1996 to review the implementation progress of Loan 351 6-KO and to reach
agreement with the Ministry of Health and Welfare (MOHW) on preparing the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR). This aide memoire records the findings of the
mission and the agreements reached on actions to be taken by IBRD and MOHW at the
time of loan closing on December 31, 1996.
2.    The mission visited the Ministry of Finance and Economy (MOFE), MOHW, the
National Institute of Health (NIH), the National Medical Center (NMC), the Korea
Institute of Health Services Management (KIHM), the Korea Institute for Health and
Social Affairs (KIHASA), and the Office of Supply, Republic of Korea (OSROK). Their
kind assistance and efficient cooperation is deeply appreciated.
Progress Review
3.    Procurement. All planned procurement actions have been taken by MOHW and
OSROK. Total amount of procurement reached US$29.8 out of a US$30 million loan.
All equipment has been delivered, installed and is in use except for a few small recent
contracts. The mission reviewed a 20% random sample of the 29 contracts signed during
the period of this review (October 95-October 96) and found all six contracts to be in
order.
4.    Disbursements. Total disbursement as of September 30, 1996 is US$29.5
million. The final disbursement amount is expected to reach US$29.8 leaving an
undisbursed amount of US$0.2 million or two thirds of one percent of the loan amount.
This very small undisbursed amount would be cancelled on the closing date.
5.    Special Accounts (SAs) and Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). There are two
SAs accounts: one of US$2.0 million for NMC and the provincial and municipal Public
Hospitals (PH) and one of US$1.0 million for NIH. The mission reviewed the use of the
SAs during this 12-month review period and examined a 15% random sample of the line
entries in the 21 withdrawal applications from the first SA and of four withdrawal
applications from the second SA. The entries for contracts in the SOEs were checked
against original vouchers and contract sheets and were found to be satisfactory.



Annex A
Page 2 of 4
6.    Loan Covenants. Eight of the nine loan covenants in the Loan Agreement have
been met during project implementation. The covenant dealing with audit reports and
SOEs has been fulfilled until 1995. The 1996 audit report and separate opinion on SOEs
for expenditures made in Korean FY 1995 was due June 30, 1996 and has not yet been
received by the Bank. MOHW assured the mission that it will be sent by the end of this
month. The mission reminded the government that one more audit report will be due in
1997 for expenditures incurred during Korean FY 1996.
7.    Health Policy Research Studies. The first comprehensive review of National
Health Expenditures was completed by KIHM in 1994. The data are updated annually
providing an ongoing record of national health care expenditures. The design and the
operational plan of the study Alternatives to Fee-for-Service Payment - also conducted
by KIHM - have been completed and focus on implementing a DRG-based prospective
hospital reimbursement payment system in lieu of the current fee-for-service scheme.
An initial set of 30 DRGs will be used in participating hospitals in 1997. Participation
will be on a voluntary basis in light of some active resistance by professional associations
to a change in reimbursement methods. The study on a Resource Allocation Model was
completed by KIHASA in 1995 and documented in two reports that were submitted to
MOHW. An abstract in English will be prepared and the mission offered its assistance in
its preparation. The evaluation of the impact of National Health Insurance is being
carried out by the School of Public Health at Seoul National University and is proceeding
well. The Bank received an interim report in July 1996 and the final report will be ready
by the end of December 1996.
Project Completion and ICR Preparation
8.    Loan Closing Date. The mission and MOHW agreed that the loan will be closed
on December 31, 1996. No time extension is necessary given the timely implementation
of the entire proj ect.
9.    Grace Period for Disbursements. Disbursements will reach over 99% of the loan
amount before the closing date and no miscellaneous payments are expected to be paid
after the closing date. The mission and MOHW therefore agreed that granting a four
month grace period would not be necessary.
10.   Cancellation of Undisbursed Loan Proceeds. The anticipated undisbursed loan
amount is about US$0.2 million. If the undisbursed amount is still in the two SAs then
MOHW will refund EBRD the undisbursed amount after confirming the exact figure with
the Bank's Disbursement Division and with MOFE's Treasury Division. In case the
funds in the two SAs have already been recovered by the Bank then the Bank will
determine the exact undisbursed amount and inform MOFE and MOHW of the loan
amount cancelled.



Annex A
Page 3 of 4
11.   ICR Preparation. The mission briefed the interested parties (MOHW, NIH,
NMC) on the objectives, the rationale, the contents, respective responsibilities and due
date of the ICR. An ICR for a recently completed IBRD/ROK project (Loan 3203-KO)
and a handout were left for reference. The borrower contribution to the ICR is an
Evaluation Summary of project performance which needs to be sent to the Bank for
inclusion in the final ICR. The mission made reference to para 4.1 (page 25) of the Staff
Appraisal Report dated June 29, 1992 and suggested evaluating the expected quantitative
and qualitative benefits realized as a result of the project in each of its three components
as well as in the health policy research studies. Also suggested was the inclusion in the
Evaluation Summary of a plan for the project's future operation which would indicate
the borrower's intention to make the project sustainable after loan closing.
12.   Agreement was reached that the borrower's Evaluation Summary would be sent
to IBRD by March 31 1997. This would allow the Bank to complete the ICR and
finalize it by the official due date of June 30, 1997 or six months after project closing.
Seoul, October 26, 1996
i      Gly De Geyndt
EBRD Task Manager
,}/
Sing Zak sung
IBRD Consultant
cc:
Mr. Kim, Geum Nam, Deputy Director
Treasury Division, Treasury Bureau
Ministry of Finance and Economy
Seoul, Korea                                 Fax No 82 - 2 - 503 9282
Dr. Rhie, Dong Mo, Director General
Medical Affairs Bureau
Ministry of Health and Welfare
Seoul, Korea                                 Fax No 82 - 2 - 503 7568
Mr. Jo, Jung Hong, Director
Division 2, Foreign Procurement Bureau
Office of Supply, Republic of Korea (OSROK)
Seoul, Korea                                 Fax No 82 - 2 - 533 9158



Annex A
Page 4 of 4
Attachment
(a)    Time Schedule - Steps and Dates
Bank Side                                       MOHW Side
Step Name              Date                    Steo Name                Date
Project Completion     Held already in         Data Collection          Between 1 l/15/96
Mission                Oct./Nov. 96                                     and 02/15/96
Documents and Tables to   02/15/97
reach Bank
ICR Drafting           Between 02/15/97        Evaluation Summary       Between 11/15/96
and 03/15/97            Preparation              and 03/31/97
Draft ICR to MOHW      03/15/97                Comments on Draft ICR    Between 03/15/97 and
05/15/97
Evaluation Summary to    03/31/97
reach Bank
Gray Cover ICR         Between 03/15/97 and
Preparation            05/15/97
ICR to the Bank's Board  06/30/91
of Executive Directors
(b)    List of Documents and Tables to be sent to the Bank from MIOHW
(i)    The Evaluation Summary to be annexed to the ICRF (See steps 3 and 5
above)
(ii)    Documents and Tables:                        (See step 2 above)
Project cost table
Project finance table
Project components starting and completion dates table
(4 components; NIH, NMC, Public hospitals and 4 studies)
Table on transferals between PH and secondary/tertiary hospitals
Four study reports including their recommendations to MOHW
A plan for future operations, as evidence on sustainablility
(iii)    Comments on draft ICR                        (See Bank side step 4)
(c)    The Documents to be sent by Bank to MOHW
(i)    Draft ICR                                      (See Bank side step 3)
(ii)    Final ICR (after Bank's Board approval)      (See Bank side Step 5)



Annex B
Page 1 of 6
Summary of Evaluation on the Project
Performance of the IBRD Loan, 3516-KO
March 1997
Ministry of Health and Welfare
Republic of Korea



Annex B
Page 2 of 6
1. Project :IBRD Loan 3516-KO-Public Hospital Modernization Project
2. Period: Oct. 2. 1992 - Dec. 31. 1996
3. Background
With the evolution of medical technology, increased population in the
aged group, and the change of the patterns of diseases, the Korean health
care market was needed to change its focus from acute care services to
chronic care services. However, due to financial difficulties, the public
hospitals was not possible to allocate funds for purchasing modernized medical
equipments to meet those new demands. With this respect, the Korean
government decided to make a Loan Agreement with IBRD to enhance care
ability of public hospitals which were provided relatively low quality of care
in comparison to private hospitals.
4. Purpose
The purpose of 'IBRD Loan 3516-KO-Public Hospital Modernization
Project' are to enhance the quality of health care, expand the accessibility of
health care services in the recipient organizations, and finally promote national
health status by means of modernizing medical equipments and lab. facilities.
5. Selected Organizations and their major functions
* National Medical Center: a tertiary hospital for indigent patients(600 beds).
* Public Hospitals in rural areas(1O hospitals): the primary care hospitals
which are located in medium sized cities for indigent patients
* National Institute of Health: the organization which functions monitoring
the epidemics, vaccine development, and training health care officials.



Annex B
Page 3 of 6
6. Medical equipment purchasing list in selected organizations
the loan recipients       loant# of purchasing Equip.                  Remarks
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _lo a n_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
*'NMC                     9,958,005.29    Operating  Microsope 1 set etc.,
106kinds
*'Public Hospitals (10)   9,988,670.27    Colonocope 1 set etc., 221 kinds
*NIH                      9,876,569.95    UVAVIS  spectrophotomete  1 set
etc., 407 kinds
Total                   29,823,245.51
7. Results
The following improvements are the results of the public hospital
modernization project in selected organizations.(See more details in appendix
sheets)
* National Medical Center
In addition to its major function which is acute care service for the
indigent, the NMC has been enlarged its service scope by providing chronic
care services such as prevention services through modern technology
equipments.
* Public hospitals in rural areas(10 hospitals)
With the use of modem  technology equipments, the hospitals are able to
provide high quality of care and reduce the cost of care. Also, the patients
are able to receive same quality of care which was not possible in their local
public hospitals before.



Annex B
Page 4 of 6
* National Institute of Health
The new lab. test equipments make the NIH enables to detect the
epidemics more powerfully and accurately.
8. Evaluation
The 'lBRD Loan 3516-KO-Public Hospital Modernization Project' is
successfully implemented and , as a result, we think the quality level of
Korean health care system and ability to control diseases is being enhanced.



Annex B
Page 5 of 6
< Appendix Sheet >
Table A  : Project Component Completion Dates
Component Name            Stardng Date             Completion Date
NIH                 May.14, 1993               Aug.6, 1996
NMC                  Dec.2, 1993               Aug.21, 1996
Chun-Cheon ph             Jul.4, 1995               Dec.9, 1996
Won-Ju Ph              Nov.25, 1994               Dec.9, 1996
Kang-Reung Ph             Apr.3, 1995               Nov.21, 1995
Sok-Cho Ph              Apr.12, 1995              Sep.28, 1995
Yong-Wol Ph              Sep.19, 1995              Sep.24. 1996
Sam-Cheok Ph             May.17, 1995               Oct.13, 1995
Cheung-Ju Ph             Aug.10, 1994              May.17, 1995
Kun-San Ph               Feb.7, 1995              Mar.19, 1996
Nam-Won Ph               Feb.7, 1995                Dec.9, 1996
Po-Hang Ph              May.17, 1995              May.30, 1996



Annex B
Page 6 of 6
Table B: Data collection for understanding whether due of
objectives for this project has succeded or not
The aimed at this objective in feference
To improve the medical treatment capacity of the rural public hospitals by
better equipping the rural public hospitals.
Sugzested Method
To collect data from rural hospitals on number of the inpatient, outpatient
over a period.
(crossing from before the project to after the project)
Collect data from rural public hospitals
Namber of         Period foom '93 to '96
Name of PH       Location
Patient     '93      '94     '95     '96
Chun-Cheon   KangWon-Do    Inpatient    73,519  77,221   81,471   84,456
Outpatient  104,862  121,647  145,065  168,257
Total     178,381  198,868  226,536  252,713
Won-Ju      KangWon-Do    Inpatient    67,146  83,924   86,149   97,209
Outpatient   99,060  105,302  110,389  123,394
Total     166,206  189,226  196,538  220,603
Sam-Cheok   KangWon-Do    Inpatient    49,178  56,663  60,665   59,439
Outpatient   129,024  129,066  125,462  130,528
Total     178,202  185,729  183,127  189,967
Po-Hang       KyongSang      Inpatient    76,015  79,104  85,151   93,533
Buk-Do       Outpatient   33,430  45,016  50,952   67,472
Total     109,445  124,120  136,103  161,005
A The number of inpatient - total man- days
The number of outpatient - actual man
* Data for 6 additional hospitals is given in the Attachment overleaf.



Attachment
Page 1 of 1
Patient Data from 6 Additional Rural Public Hospitals'
Name of PH    Location   Number of        Period from '93 to '96
Patients   '93     '94    1'95      '96
Kang-Reung   KangWon-Do In-patient    38,199   36,963   46,421   45,507
Out-patient  103,790   91,666   95,678  101,918
Total      141,989  128,629  142,099  147,425
Sok-Cho      KangWon-Do In-patient    45,251   44,220   40,323   34,689
Out-patient  94,254   95,893   88,762   94,254
Total      139,505  140,113  129,085  128,943
Young-Wol   KangWon-Do In-patient    45,150   47,869   53,971   41,574
Out-patient  87,407   97,051   96,626   89,044
Total      132,557  144,920  150,597  130,618
Cheung-Ju    ChungCheung In-patient   116,333  120,612  123,185  119,076
Buk-Do   Out-patient  91,646   93,225   83,682   74,754
Total      207,979  213,837  206,867  193,830
Kun-San       CheonRa  In-patient   128,529  136,903  136,271  107,946
Buk-Do   Out-patient  99,388  122,350  138,754  117,269
Total      227,917  259,253  275,025  225,215
Nam-Won       CheonRa  In-patient   128,529   50,127   93,727   93,578
Buk-Do   Out-patient  108,852  115,028   88,862   96,617
Total      237,381  165,155  182,589  190,195
Source: GOK Submission on February 18, 1997



__________________________                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 28660
.          \           RUSSIAN         126                          127'                           128        A                  129'5                  IBRD  2866(
'   P sL  FEDeRArIoN    DEMOCRATIC  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC                                                                 KILOMETERS
_. a                                 OF KOREA                                                                            ULLUNG
CHINA                                                                        -.                                                    - -37,30'    DO   Td g 37 30
.+  ///g  gKimI, a  .  \    q    XSokcho
/,OEM. PEOPLE'S                                                                               -
REP. OF KOREA                                                                                   'V131'00
PE OF                                          . 
K,- )WEA       JAPAN                    Panmunjom                                     /
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~      ~         ~         ~         cngnu
TO ghae
125-                                                                                         war,1,,
37'
C        - >   C oJjlf0qsonq     .- gAndong   '
Chungnnu g3 6sep-
t   < XJ W    Nokdong        REPUBLIC OF KOREA
'   tAn                                     ~~~~PUBLIC HOSPITAL
Wondo MODERNIZATION PROJECT
-                                         ~~~~~~           ~        ~       ~~NMC,NIH  RIVERS        34
34                                                                                             Ul    PUBLIC HOSPITALS            t     AIRPORTS
____EXPRESSWAYS                       SPECIAL CITIES
This map wos produced by the                                   -PRIMARY ROADS                                                 -       PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
Mop Design Unit of The World BanL.                                                         ---    RAILROADS                  ------  INTERNATIONAL
The boundaries, colors, denomination,                                                                                                    ONAIE   IST
and anyother information shown on,                                                                                                      BONAIS,IS
tis mop do not imply, on the port of              Chei
The World Bant Group, any judgment                   /         \
on the legalsau~sof any territory, or          0gr                                                              50               100              150 KILOM\ETERS
any  endarsement or  acceptance  of                /_________________________
such boundaries.                                            Sogwi4po
1 25                          1 26'                           127'                            1 28"                          129"9
MARCH I997









IMAGING
Report No-:         M2
Type:     ICR



