Page  1
Federal Republic of Nigeria 
 
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT 
FRAMWORK 
(ESMF) 
 
FOR 
 
STATE GOVERNANCE CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
\03
(SGCBP)
\03
DRAFT FINAL REPORT 
 
Submitted to:  
The World Bank 
104 Yakubu Gowon Way  
Asokoro, F.C.T. Abuja  
Nigeria 
 
Submitted by:  
 
Earthguards Limited 
Suite 45, (3
rd
 Floor),  
God’s Own Plaza, 
 4 Takum Close, Area 11, Garki,  
F.C.T. Abuja,  Nigeria. 
Email: 
earthguards@gmail.com
Website: 
www.earthguards.net
November, 2008 
Maximizing Resources and Sustaining Development
E2086 
Page  2
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
1
ACRONYMS 
 
AU  
African 
Union 
BASEPA 
Bauchi State Environmental Protection Agency 
CABS  
College of Administrative and Business Studies 
CBOs   
Community Based Organizations  
CPS  
Country 
Partnership 
Strategy 
DFID   
Department for International Development 
EA  
Environmental 
Assessment 
ECOWAS 
Economic Community of West Africa States 
EIA 
 
Environmental Impact Assessment  
EPAD  
Environmental Protection Assessment Department 
EMS  
Environmental 
Management 
Systems 
ESIA 
 
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment 
ESMF  
Environmental and Social Management Framework 
EU-SRIP European 
Union 
–Support to Reforming Institutions Program 
FEPA   
Federal Environmental Protection Agency 
FMEH&UD 
Federal Ministry of Environment, Housing and Urban Development 
FMF    
Federal Ministry of Finance 
ISDS 
 
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet 
ITCZ 
 
Inter-Tropical Convergence Zone 
KEPA  
Kaduna Environmental Projection Agency 
LGAs  
Local Government Authority 
MDA   
Ministries Department and Agencies 
MDC  
Management Development Center 
M&E  
Monitoring and Evaluation 
NEEDS 
National Economic Empowerment and Development Strategies 
NPCU  
National Project Coordinating Unit 
NGOs  
Non-Governmental Organisation 
PAD 
 
Project Appraisal Document 
PCN 
 
Project Concept Notes 
PFM 
 
Public Financial Management 
PHC  
Public 
Health 
Care 
SEPA   
State Environmental Protection Agency 
SDC  
Staff 
Development 
Center 
SPCU   
State Project Coordinating Unit  
SGCBP 
State Governance Capacity Building Project 
SSA  
Sub-Sahara 
Africa 
SPC  
State 
Planning 
Commission 
TDS  
Total 
Dissolved 
Solids 
TOR  
Terms 
of 
Reference 
 
WHO  
World Health Organisation 
 
Page  3
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
2
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS...........................................................................................2 
LIST OF TABLE.......................................................................................................4 
LIST OF FIGURE.....................................................................................................5 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY........................................................................................6 
CHAPTER ONE: INTRODUCTION.........................................................................7 
1.1 
Objectives of the Environmental and Social Management Framework........8 
1.2 Study 
Approach 
& 
Methodology................................................................8 
1.2.1
 
Literature Review
...............................................................................8 
1.2.2
 
Data Gathering
..................................................................................9 
CHAPTER TWO: PROJECT COMPONENTS .......................................................10 
2.1 
Component 1: Public Financial Management and Procurement Reforms..10 
2.2 
Component 2: Human Resource Management and Capacity Development10 
2.3 
Component 3: Monitoring and Evaluation System Development..............11 
2.4 
Component 4: Responsive Support for State Specific Requests................11 
CHAPTER THREE: BASELINE DATA.................................................................12 
3.1 
The Bio- Physical Environmental Features...............................................12 
3.1.1
 
Physical Environment
.......................................................................13 
3.1.2
 
Biological Environment
....................................................................16 
3.2 Social 
-Economics....................................................................................17 
CHAPTER FOUR: POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK20 
4.1 Policy 
Framework....................................................................................20 
4.2 Legal 
Framework.....................................................................................20 
4.2.1
 
Federal
.............................................................................................20 
4.2.2
 
State
.................................................................................................22 
4.3 Assessment 
of 
the 
Legal 
Framework........................................................22 
4.4 International 
Environmental 
Agreements..................................................23 
4.4 
World Bank Safeguard Policies................................................................24 
CHAPTER FIVE: POTENTIAL IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES .....25 
5.1 Potential 
Impacts......................................................................................25 
5.2 Environmental 
Impacts.............................................................................26 
5.2.1
 
Construction Phase
..........................................................................26 
5.2.2
 
Operation Phase
...............................................................................27 
5.3 Social 
and 
Health 
Impacts........................................................................27 
5.3.1
 
Construction Phase
..........................................................................27 
5.3.2
 
Operation Phase
...............................................................................28 
5.4 Mitigation ................................................................................................29 
5.4.1
 
Mitigation Measures
.........................................................................29 
5.4.2
 
Mitigation Funding
...........................................................................32 
CHAPTER 6: IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL 
MANAGEMENT....................................................................................................33 
CHAPTER SEVEN: PUBLIC CONSULTATION PLAN........................................35 
7.1 Objectives................................................................................................35 
7.2 Identifying 
Stakeholders...........................................................................35 
7.3 Consultation 
Strategies.............................................................................35 
ANNEX 1: List of Persons Contacted......................................................................37 
ANNEX 2: Summary Of World Bank Environmental And Social Safeguard Policies..38 
ANNEX 3: Draft EIA /ESIA Terms Of Reference...................................................41 
Page  4
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
3
ANNEX 4: Contract Provisions: Environmental and Social Impacts........................43 
 
Page  5
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP II 
 
LIST OF TABLE  
 
Table 3.1: Nigerian Ambient Air Quality Standard ........................................................15 
Table 3.2: Air Quality Classification Based on TSP Values...........................................15 
Table 5.1: Potential Environmental and Social Impacts of the SCBGP II.......................25 
Table 5.2: Summary of Environmental and Social Mitigation Measures ........................30 
Table 6.1 Institutional Capacity Strengthening Program.................................................34 
Table 7.1: Stakeholder Identification Matrix..................................................................35
 
Page  6
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
5
LIST OF FIGURE 
 
Figure 3.1: Map of Nigeria showing the 36 states of Nigeria..........................................13 
 
Page  7
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
6
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
 
The State Governance and Capacity Building Project-II (SGCBP-II)) is a public sector 
management project operating in the existing SGCBP-I states of Kaduna, Bauchi and 
Cross River; and with potentials to be extended to Anambra, Ekiti, Kwara, Niger, 
Plateau and Yobe states. 
 
The project development objective is to strengthen the capacity and quality of the 
public financial and procurement management systems personnel and payroll 
management system and monitoring and evaluation system.  
 
By improving these governance systems at state level, SGCBP II will support 
achievement of the third pillar of National Economic Empowerment and Development 
Strategy (NEEDS), which seeks to change the way government does its business and 
also the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) of the World Bank and DFID. 
 
The four components of this project are as follows: 
Component 1: Public Financial Management and Procurement Reforms  
Component 2: Human Resource Management and Capacity Development.  
Component 3: Monitoring and Evaluation System Development  
Component 4: Responsive Support for State Specific Requests  
 
Based on the categorization of projects, funded by the World Bank, the SGCBP II is 
classified as a Category B (FEPA classification - Category 2) project and therefore 
triggering the World Bank Safeguard policy OP/BP 4.01 
–
Environmental Assessment.  
The OP/BP 4.01 entails that the project would need to develop Environmental 
Assessment documents such as the Environmental and Social Management Framework 
(ESMF), Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and the Environmental Management 
Plan (EMP).  
 
The ESMF is developed with a primary objective to improve decision making and to 
ensure that the design, construction, expansion, upgrading or rehabilitation of 
educational and judicial facilities being considered under the proposed project are 
undertaken in an environmentally sound and sustainable manner.  
 
While the secondary objective is to ensure that in-country capacity, regulatory 
framework; principles and procedures are established to provide a basis for 
environmental assessments of all sub-projects to be carried out under this restructured 
project. 
 
In developing the ESMF document certain mitigation measures were recommended to 
manage potential environmental and social impacts and were expressed in broad 
categories such as physical, biological and social. These will help minimize or adverse 
the potential environmental and social impacts associated with the propose project 
 
Page  8
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
7
CHAPTER ONE: INTRODUCTION 
 
The State Governance and Capacity Building Project-II (SGCBP-II) is a public sector 
management project operating in the existing SGCBP-I states of Kaduna, Bauchi and 
Cross River; and with potentials to be extended to Anambra, Ekiti, Kwara, Niger, 
Plateau and Yobe states. This project which is the principal Bank instrument for 
supporting governance reforms at the sub-national level in Nigeria, is a restructured one 
of the SGCBP-I and the main reasons for the re-structuring are to address 
implementation difficulties; respond to new priorities of the state governments; ensure 
the productive use of uncommitted funds; and enhance overall achievement of the 
project development objective. The restructuring provides the opportunity to enhance 
ownership, knowledge sharing and commitment to reforms by engaging the 
participating states and the Federal Ministry of Finance (FMF) in the restructuring 
process and reflecting new priorities of state governments. 
 
The project development objective is to strengthen the capacity and quality of (a) the 
public financial and procurement management systems (b) personnel and payroll 
management system and (c) monitoring and evaluation system. By improving these 
governance systems at state level SGCBP II will support achievement of the third pillar 
of National Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy (NEEDS,)which seeks 
to change the way government does its business and also the Country Partnership 
Strategy (CPS) of the Bank and DFID. 
 
The proposed changes from SGCBP-I include: (i) refocusing of the project 
development objectives to make them more realistic and achievable, and revision of 
project results framework and  monitoring arrangements; (ii) minor adjustments to 
existing sub-component and activities, to address gaps in the capacity of some key 
stakeholders; (iii) the addition of a new component, necessary to align the project to the 
new reform agenda and priorities in the participating states, as well as complement the 
implementation of other sub-project components; (iv) reallocation of credit proceeds to 
reflect changes in work program priorities and enhance the productive use of credit 
proceeds; and (v) strengthening the institutional framework to address sources of delay 
in project implementation. 
 
Some of the activities under the proposed project as identified in the restructuring 
project paper will involve civil works especially on the physical renovation of the 
College of Administration and Business Studies (CABS, Bauchi) and the Staff 
Development Center (SDC, Kaduna). There will also be civil works on the up-grading 
of judicial facilities in Calabar, Cross River State.  
 
The World Bank
’s Operational Policy (OP) 4.01 requires that an Environmental and 
Social Management Framework (ESMF) be prepared which will establish a mechanism 
to determine and assess future potential environmental and social impacts of project 
investments and then to set out mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to be 
taken during design, implementation and operation of the subproject’s activities to 
minimize adverse environmental and social impacts to acceptable levels. 
 
Page  9
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
8
1.1 
Objectives of the Environmental and Social Management Framework 
 
The primary goal of this ESMF is to improve decision making and to ensure that the 
design, construction, expansion, upgrading or rehabilitation of educational and judicial 
facilities being considered under the proposed project are undertaken in an 
environmentally sound and sustainable manner.  
The secondary goal is to ensure that in-country capacity, regulatory framework; 
principles and procedures are established to provide a basis for environmental 
assessments of all sub-projects to be carried out under this restructured project 
 
More specifically, the purpose of the ESMF is to:  
Assess the potential environmental and social impacts of the sub-projects 
(rehabilitation, up-grading, or new constructions), whether positive or negative and 
propose mitigation measures;  
Inform the project preparation team and the Nigerian Government of the potential 
impacts of different anticipated sub-projects and relevant mitigation measures and 
strategies; 
Establish clear directives and methodologies for the environmental and social screening 
of sub-projects to be financed by the project; and 
Identify potential environmental policies, legal and institutional framework pertaining 
to the project. 
1.2 
Study Approach & Methodology 
The ESMF study was prepared in accordance with applicable World Bank safeguard 
policies and Nigerian environmental impact assessment guidelines. The distinct phases 
of the study include: 
 
ƒ
Data Gathering; 
ƒ
Literature review; 
ƒ
Reconnaissance Surveys and visits to potential sub-projects sites; 
ƒ
Characterization of the baseline conditions; 
ƒ
Identification of potential impacts; 
ƒ
Identification of impact mitigation measures; 
ƒ
Preparation of an Environmental and Social Management Plan; and 
ƒ
Preparation of sub-project guidelines. 
1.2.1 Literature 
Review 
 
The approach was based on review of available literature and other strategic planning 
documents at the national and state level. Specifically, the following were reviewed: 
Project Concept Notes (PCN), draft Project Appraisal Document (PAD), concept-stage 
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS) of the SGCBP-I. In addition, the restructuring 
project paper and the SCBGP-II ISDS were consulted. Also consulted were the general 
environmental management conditions for construction contracts; federal and state 
environmental laws regulations, decrees, acts, policies and guidelines; World Bank 
safeguard policies and other relevant documents. 
 
Page  10
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
9
1.2.2 Data 
Gathering 
The consultant assembled and evaluated relevant baseline data related to the physical, 
biological and socio-cultural environment of the country. The baseline data reviewed 
included: topography, soil, water resources, climate and meteorology; biological and 
socio-economics data. 
Field visits were made to Cross River, Kaduna and Bauchi States. During the field 
visits to the states, discussions were held with officials of relevant state ministries and 
agencies. (See Annex 1.0 for complete list).  
Using the specific circumstances of each state visited, the particular technical 
operations of each State project coordinating unit, including related agencies such as 
environmental protection agencies/authorities were studied, their capacity to implement 
the proposed environmental and social management process and mitigation measures 
was assessed, and discussions held to determine appropriate recommendations for 
improvement in service delivery, mitigation, monitoring, institutional requirements and 
their training and capacity building needs. 
 
Page  11
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
10
CHAPTER TWO: PROJECT COMPONENTS 
SGCBP II seeks to support reforms in participating states and pilot local governments 
towards improved fiscal, public financial management, and personnel and payroll 
management systems, including public procurement, multi-year budgeting and fiscal 
planning, tax administration, capacity development, monitoring and evaluation. There 
are four components: 
2.1 
Component 1: Public Financial Management and Procurement Reforms  
 
This aims to develop and modernize the Public Finance Maintenance (PFM) systems of 
participating states, with the objective of improving its efficacy and quality in 
managing public financial resources. To enhance macroeconomic management and 
quality of public expenditure, the component will support fiscal planning and 
standardization of PFM procedures, processes, and reporting among participating state 
governments for consistency with the federal government.  Activities will include:(a) 
fiscal responsibility legislation and implementation; (b) strengthening capacity for 
budget preparation, presentation, implementation and monitoring; (c) accounting, and 
financial reporting; (d) strengthening audit and oversight role of the State Houses of 
Assembly; (e) improving tax administration (f) modernization and automation of 
financial management system; and (g) public procurement reforms and capacity 
building. These activities are in line with the follow-up action plans that are part of the 
PEFA and PERs undertaken by the some potential candidate states. The PFM 
component will be coordinated with other development partners’ support in the selected 
states where applicable (e.g. with EU-SRIP in Anambra state).  
 
2.2 
Component 2: Human Resource Management and Capacity Development
 
Diagnostic work undertaken by the World Bank and other development partners 
highlight the depth of human resources capacity and systemic weaknesses that 
undermine the credibility of PFM, payroll and personnel management systems. They 
also highlight the fact the wage bill constitute one of the biggest items of government 
expenditure and subject to weak controls and abuses with negative impact on the 
quality of public expenditure. The objective of this component will be to provide 
targeted capacity building to PFM-related ministries, departments and agencies, as well 
as strengthen personnel and payroll systems to minimize abuse and redirect potential 
savings to improve services. Activities include conduct of a thorough assessment of 
existing skills and training needs of PFM and procurement related Ministries 
Department and Agencies (MDAs); targeted short to medium term training, provision 
of logistic support, and development, modernization and linking of payroll and 
personnel databases the state public service. 
 
Page  12
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
11
2.3 
Component 3: Monitoring and Evaluation System Development  
 
In most states, Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) is either non-existent or even where 
they exist the emphasis is on project monitoring. One of the key challenges is how to 
monitor and measure the outcome of public expenditures, especially in big spending 
ministries, departments and agencies. This component will help to address these 
challenges by strengthening the capacity of state governments to effectively allocate 
resources, track outcomes of government programs and improve the quality of service 
delivery, using evidence generated from regular evaluation of programs. The focus will 
be on improving the legal and institutional framework for results-based M&E and 
building the institutional capacity for effective monitoring and management of 
development outcomes. It will support activities related to (a) diagnosis of existing 
M&E systems (b) design and implementation of a new M&E system (c) formulation of 
policies and drafting of enabling regulations (d) training and skills development for 
staff of State Planning Commissions and MDAs (e) establishment of an M&E 
secretariat to coordinate M&E activities across the state alongside capacity building and 
(f) pilot evaluations and service delivery satisfaction surveys for key government 
programs.  
2.4 
Component 4: Responsive Support for State Specific Requests  
This component will allocate resources
 to meet other relevant State Government’s 
requests to complement and deepen reforms under the components outlined above. 
Funding from this component will also be used to provide additional financing for the 
three states currently implementing SGCBP I when the project closes in March 2010. 
 
Page  13
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
12
CHAPTER THREE: BASELINE DATA 
 
The study will undertake to present the baseline information of Nigeria instead of 
emphasizing on baseline information of Kaduna, Bauchi and Cross River States. This is 
because of the potential of the following states joining the project: Anambra, Ekiti, 
Kwara, Niger, Plateau and Yobe; thereby representing all the geopolitical zones. 
 
3.1 
The Bio- Physical Environmental Features 
 
Nigeria is situated in West Africa lying between latitudes 4
°
00
N
and 14
°
00N
and 
longitudes 2
°
500 W and 14
°
45
E, bordered to its south by the Gulf of Guinea for about 
850km, by the Republic of Benin to the West for 773km, Republic of Niger to its North 
for 1497km, Chad at its North Eastern Boundary (water boundary) for 87km and 
Cameroon to its East for 1,690km (figure 3.1 next page). 
 
Page  14
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
13
Figure 3.1: Map of Nigeria showing the 36 states of Nigeria  
 
Nigeria has a total area of 923,768 sq. km of which the total land area is 913, 768 sq. 
km and 10,000 sq. km is water.  
 
Nigeria is blessed with abundant water resources estimated at 226 billion m
3
of surface 
water and about 40 billion m
3
of ground water. 
The main characteristics of the biological, physical and socio-economic environment of 
the project area are summarized below 
 
3.1.1 Physical 
Environment 
Climate  
Nigeri
a’s climate varies from arid in the north, tropical in the centre and equatorial in 
the south. The climate is largely controlled by prevailing winds and nearness to the 
Atlantic Ocean. The two dominant air masses are the dry wind from the Sahara and the 
wet wind from the Atlantic Ocean. Marginal alterations have being recorded due to 
Page  15
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
14
landform characteristics, configuration of surrounding shoreline and the generally flat 
topography of the country. 
Rainfall 
Rainfall is the single most important element for defining the climatic seasons in the 
tropics. Hence, Nigeria has two dominant seasons; the wet and the dry seasons. Rainfall 
throughout Nigeria depends on the interaction of the tropical maritime air mass and the 
tropical continental mass which meet along the inter-tropical convergence zone (ITCZ). 
The annual average rainfall around the country is between 2000mm and 3000mm.  
Temperature 
Nigeria’s climate is characterized by relatively high temperatures throughout the year. 
The average annual maximum varies from 35
o
C
in the north to 31
o
C
in the south; the 
average annual minimum from 23
o
C
in the south to 18
o
C
in the north. On the Jos 
plateau and the eastern highlands altitude makes for relatively lower temperatures, with 
the maximum no more than 28
o
C
and the minimum sometimes as low as 14
o
C.  
Wind  
Two principal wind currents affect Nigeria. The south-westerlies dominate the rainy 
season of the year while north-easterlies dominate the dry season. Depending on the 
shifts in the pressure belts in the Gulf of Guinea, these winds are interspersed 
respectively by south-easterlies and north-westerlies in different parts of the year. The 
wetter winds prevail for more than 70% due to the strong influence of the breeze from 
the Atlantic Ocean. 
Mean annual wind speed varies between 2 to 6 m/s.  Speeds in dry season (November - 
March) are lower. In the wet season (April–October), daily average speed could rise to 
15 m/s. Values of up to 25 m/s are sometimes experienced due to inducement by 
convective rainfall activities and relative diffusion. 
 
Ambient Air Quality 
Generally, air quality in the area complies with regulatory standards. Although, slight 
variations are noticed in major industrial cities like Lagos, Ibadan, Aba, Kano, Port 
Harcourt and Kaduna. 
 
The Federal Ministry of Environment, Housing and Urban Development (FME & UD) 
adopted the WHO standards (Table 3.1) as the national standards for gaseous emissions 
against which air quality parameters monitored are compared in order to ascertain its 
“cleanliness”. 
 
Page  16
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
15
Table 3.1: Nigerian Ambient Air Quality Standard 
Air Pollutants 
Emission Limits 
Particulates 
250 (µg/m3) 
SO2 0.1 
(ppm) 
Non-methane Hydrocarbon 
160 (µg/m3) 
CO 
11-4 (µg/m3) or 10 (ppm) 
NOX 0.04-0.06 
(ppm) 
Photochemical Oxidant 
0.06 (ppm) 
Source: FME 1991 
 
Table 3.2: Air Quality Classification Based on Total Suspended Particles (TSP) Values 
Range of TSP Values (
P
g/m3) 
Class of Air Quality 
0
–
75 High 
Quality 
76 – 230 
Moderate Quality 
231 – 600 
Poor Quality 
Source: Jain, et. al (1976) 
 
Geology 
 
Nigeria lies on the southern portion of the West African Craton. The geological setting 
comprises broadly crystalline basement complex rocks and sedimentary formations. 
They occur in equal proportions around the country. The former are highly mineralized 
and give rise to soils of high nutrient status, although variable from place to place. The 
latter are found in the south-east, north-east and north-west of the country, and give rise 
to sandy and less variable soils that are deficient in plant nutrient.  
 
Topography  
 
Nigeria has varying landforms and much of the country is dominated by plains, 
generally less than 610m above sea level. The eastern border with the Republic of 
Cameroun is lined by an almost continuous range of mountains which rise to about 
2,419m at Chappal Waddi, the highest known point in Nigeria. 
In the North, the Jos Plateau rises abruptly from a general level of about 609.5m in the 
Hausa Plains to an average level of some 1,219m but reaches 1,781.6m in Shere Hills. 
The area west of the River Niger is dominated by the plain, which rises gently from the 
coast northwards 'to the area of crystalline rocks where inselbergs rise abruptly above 
the surrounding plains. The Idanre Hills, the highest point of these inselbergs, rises to 
about 981m above sea level. 
In general, the land surface of the country could be classified into three broad physical 
units or major relief features namely: the plains; the highlands; the troughs and the river 
valleys. 
Soils Characteristics  
The broad pattern of soil distribution in the country reflects both the climatic conditions 
and the geological structure; heavily leached, reddish-brown, sandy soils are found in 
the south, and light or moderately leached, yellowish-brown, sandy soils in the north. 
The difference in color relates to the extent of leaching the soil has undergone. 
Page  17
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
16
Nigeria soils are highly weathered and are characterized by light texture, low pH, low 
organic matter, low potassium levels, variable phosphorous levels with clay contents 
ranging between 7%-43%.  
Surface and Ground Water Hydrology  
 
Nigeria has two major rivers, the Niger and the Benue, which traverse the northwest 
and northeast portion of the country, then merge at Lokoja before draining down to the 
Atlantic. There are several other rivers and quite a number of minor streams and 
rivulets that crisscross the entire Nigerian land mass. These include the Ogun, Oshun, 
Imo, Cross, Osse, Nun and the Anambra rivers in the south and the Kaduna, the 
Gongola, and the Hadeija rivers in the North.  
 
Generally the water quality in the rivers of Nigeria is very good. The average electrical 
conductivity in the main rivers ranges between 48-65 Umhos/cm
2
and the total 
dissolved solids (TDS) concentration is about 100mg/l. The pH is less than 6.5, 
although higher values were reported in swamps and floodplains with levels of 100-150 
Umhos/cm
2
.
These rivers are also low in nutrients, with an average nitrogen content of 
0.32mg/l and a total phosphorous content of 0.1 mg/l. The data indicate water of high 
quality according to FMEH & UD limits. 
 
3.1.2 
Biological Environment  
 
Fauna  
 
Animals found in both forest and savannas include leopards, golden cats, monkeys, 
gorillas, and wild pigs.  Today these animals can be found only in protected places as 
the Yankari Park, Gashaka Gumti Park, and Cross River Park. Rodents such as the 
squirrel, porcupine, and cane rat constitute the largest family of mammals. The northern 
savannah abounds in guinea fowl. Other common birds include quail, vultures, kites, 
bustards, and gray parrots. The rivers contain crocodiles, hippopotamuses, and a great 
variety of marine life. 
 
In the rain forest, few large animals notably gorillas, chimpanzees, baboons and 
monkeys are present. Crocodiles, lizards, and snakes of many species are also present. 
Hippopotamuses, elephants, giraffes, leopards, and lions now remain only in scattered 
localities and in diminishing number. Wildcats, however, are more common and widely 
distributed. Wildlife in the savanna includes antelope, lions, leopards, gazelles, and 
desert hyenas. Nigeria also abounds in bird life with a great number of species being 
represented. 
Flora  
Vegetation varies dramatically in relation to climate, soil, elevation, and human impact 
on the environment. In the low-lying coastal region, mangroves line the brackish 
lagoons and creeks, while swamp forest grows where the water is fresh. Farther inland, 
this vegetation gives way to tropical forest, with its many species of tropical 
hardwoods, including mahogany, iroko, and obeche.  
Page  18
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
17
North of the forest is the Guinea Savannah, a region of tall grasses and trees. The 
southern margin of the Guinea Savannah has been so altered by humans that it is also 
called the derived savannah. Beyond the Guinea savannah lies the Sudan Savannah, a 
region of shorter grasses and more scattered, drought-resistant trees such as the baobab, 
tamarind, and acacia. In the northeastern corner of Nigeria, the very dry semi-desert 
Sahel Savannah persists. 
 
3.2 Social 
-Economics 
 
Demographics 
 
According to the latest estimates, the population of Nigeria is approximately, 150 
million (Nigeria Population Census), which makes Nigeria the largest country by 
population, in Africa. The annual average growth rate of 1995-2001 was projected at 
2.6% and the urban population represented 47% of the total population or 61.1 million 
people. The illiteracy rate, which is an estimate of the percentage the population over 
15years old that have not completed a primary school education level, is 35%. 
 
The real significance of Nigeria’s demographic situation is that it simultaneously has a 
large population and one of the highest rates of growth in the world, causing its 
projection to move up so rapidly in total population. Many unknown factors could alter 
the above estimate. AIDS is one factor that could have a dramatic impact on Nigeria’s 
future demographics. While AIDS is not the critical national health concern that it is in 
other sub-Saharan countries, it may grow to become a problem of great concern. 
 
Rural – Urban migration in Nigeria, like in most other countries is fuelled by the 
pursuit for increased economic/ livelihood opportunities.  
 
Ethnic Groups and Religion 
 
Nigeria, which is Africa’s most populous country, is composed of more than 250 ethnic 
groups, the larger of which are the Hausa and Fulani, who are predominantly from the 
North represent approximately 29% of the population, the Yoruba, predominantly from 
the South (South West) and represent approximately 21% of the population or and the 
Ibo, predominantly from the East represent about 18% of the population.  The other 
large groups are the Ijaw with about 10%, the Kanuri with about 4%, the Ibibio with 
about 3.5%. The Middle Belt region of Nigeria shows the greatest degree of ethnic 
diversity, particularly in Adamawa, Taraba and Plateau States. The religious groups 
include Muslims, which make up about half of the population at approximately 65 
million people; Christians at about 40% or about 52million people and the rest are of 
indigenous beliefs (10%) or about 13 million people. 
 
Land Use Pattern 
 
The estimated land area of Nigeria is 924,000 km
2
.
Land use varies based on location 
and the needs of the community. However, the different uses of land revolve around 
agriculture, industry and social needs such as the provision of infrastructure. Recent 
Page  19
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
18
data shows that about 60% of the land area of Nigeria is under various forms of food 
(crop and animal) production and forest plantation.  
 
Land Tenure  
 
The Land Use Decree of 1978 vests all land in the state through the office of the 
governor. Land is to be held in trust and administered for the use and common benefit 
of all Nigerians according to the provisions of the Act. By this legal instrument, the 
state replaced the traditional institutions of obaship/emirship and chiefs in their roles as 
custodians of communal land.  
 
Control and management of land in urban areas is the responsibility of the state 
governor, while all other land (rural, public, etc.) is the responsibility of the Local 
Government of the area. The governor is empowered to designate certain areas as urban 
land and to grant statutory rights of occupancy of fixed periods and rights of access to 
any person, subject to rental arrangements fixed by and payable to the state. The local 
government can grant a customary right of occupancy to land in the local government 
area (LGA) to any person or organization for agriculture, grazing, residential or other 
purposes. 
 
Public Health Features 
 
The increase in urban and peri-urban population over the years, coupled with the 
significant decline in the performance of the State Water Agencies to provide potable 
water (it is estimated that only 50% of the urban and 20% of the peri-urban have access 
to reliable water supply), and with poor or no acceptable sanitation or drainage 
infrastructure in many of these areas, the prevalence rate for diseases such as diarrhoea, 
malaria, dysentery and other serious health conditions are high.   
 
Poverty  
 
According to the World Bank, Country at a Glance report, 2001, the gross national 
income (GNI) per capita of Nigeria is US$290, which is significantly lower than the 
average of US$470 for sub Saharan Africa (SSA).  
 
It is estimated that 60% of the total population of Nigeria live below the poverty line. 
The average percentage of the urban poor (i.e. % of population below national poverty 
line) is a staggering 45% compared with the SSA average of 32%. 
 
Economics 
 
The Nigerian economy rests on two pillars: oil/gas and agriculture. Both sectors 
contributes 65% - 70% of GDP, while the secondary sector (manufacturing contributes 
about 7% and the tertiary sector (transport, trade, housing etc) contributes about 25%.  
 
Nigeria’s major industries are located in Lagos, Sango Otta, Port Harcourt, Ibadan, 
Aba, Onitsha, Calabar, Kano, Jos and Kaduna.  
 
Page  20
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
19
Infrastructural Facilities 
 
The main transportation means in Nigeria is the road. Water transportation is fairly 
developed in some coastal areas. Air transportation is considered fair with major 
airports in Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt, Kano and Kaduna.  The railway sector has 
experienced a major decline in the last decades but efforts are being made to revive it. 
 
Electricity is supplied through the national grid. The power supply is erratic; and 
government is promoting the development of independent power supply to augment the 
current inadequate supply. 
 
With regard to educational facilities, Nigeria is reasonably served. There are over 50 
universities consisting of federal, state and private owned. High schools in most states 
are insufficient and are in dilapidated state, except for states in the southern part of the 
country.  
 
Presently the Federal Government is refurbishing all existing tertiary health institutions 
nationwide. There is at least 1 primary health care institution in each of the 744 local 
government areas. 
 
Page  21
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
20
CHAPTER FOUR: POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE 
FRAMEWORK 
 
Nigeria has developed a number of important initiatives in policies, laws and 
regulations applicable to the environment. 
 
The major national policies and regulations that are considered relevant to the project 
are summarized in this section. 
 
4.1 Policy 
Framework 
National Policy on the Environment 
The stated goal of the National Policy on the Environment is to achieve sustainable 
development in Nigeria, and in particular to: 
 
ƒ
Secure a quality of environment adequate for good health and well being; 
ƒ
Conserve and use the environment and natural resources for the benefit of 
present and future generations; 
ƒ
Restore, maintain and enhance the ecosystems and ecological processes essential 
for the functioning of the biosphere to preserve biological diversity and the 
principle of optimum sustainable yield in the use of living natural resources and 
ecosystems; 
ƒ
Raise public awareness and promote understanding of the essential linkages 
between the environment, resources and development, and encourage individual 
and community participation in environmental improvement efforts; and 
ƒ
Co-operate in good faith with other countries, international organizations and 
agencies to achieve optimal use of trans-boundary natural resources and effective 
prevention or abatement of trans-boundary environmental degradation.
 
4.2 Legal 
Framework 
A
number of national and international environmental guidelines are applicable to the 
sub-projects under the proposed project. In Nigeria, the power to enforce all activities 
that might impact the environment is vested in the Federal Ministry of Environment, 
Housing and Urban Development (FMEH & UD). Internationally, agencies such as the 
World Bank, DFID and other development agencies usually set environmental criteria 
for projects they are involved in.   
 
4.2.1 Federal 
 
 
The Federal Ministry of Environment (FMEnv), now (since December 2006) Federal 
Ministry of Environment, Housing and Urban Development (FMEH & UD) was 
created in 1999 to take over the function of the Federal Environmental Protection 
Agency (FEPA). The ministry has a mandate to co-ordinate the environmental 
protection and conservation of natural resources for sustainable development in 
Nigeria. The specific responsibilities of the ministry are to: 
 
Page  22
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
21
ƒ
monitor and enforce environmental protection measures; 
ƒ
enforce international laws, conventions, protocols and treaties on the 
environment;  
ƒ
prescribe standards and make regulations on air quality, water quality, pollution 
and effluent limitations, the atmosphere and ozone layer protection, control of 
toxic and hazardous substances; and 
ƒ
promote cooperation with similar bodies in other countries and international 
agencies connected with environmental protection.  
 
As contained in FEPA Acts 58 of 1988 and 59 of 1992. FMEH & UD has put in place 
statutory documents to aid the monitoring, control and abatement of industrial waste. 
The statutory documents currently in place include: 
ƒ
National Policy on the Environment 1999 
ƒ
National Environmental Protection (Effluent Limitations) Regulations(S.1.8) 
1991; 
ƒ
National Environmental Protection (Pollution Abatement in Industries and 
Facilities Generating Wastes) (S.1.9) 2004; 
ƒ
National Environmental Protection (Management of Solid and Hazardous 
Wastes) Regulations (S.1.15) 1991; 
ƒ
Guidelines and Standards for Environmental Pollution Control in Nigeria 1991; 
ƒ
Sectoral Guidelines for EIA 1995 
ƒ
Harmful Wastes (Criminal Provisions) Decree No. 42, 1988; 
ƒ
National Policy on the Environment, 1989; 
ƒ
Environmental Impact Assessment Procedural Guidelines 1995; 
ƒ
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Act No. 86 of 1992; and 
ƒ
Environmental Impact Assessment (Amendments) Act 1999. 
ƒ
National Guidelines and Standards for Water Quality 1999 
ƒ
National Guidelines on Environmental Management Systems (EMS) 1999 
ƒ
National Guidelines on Environmental Audit in Nigeria 1999 
 
These statutory documents clearly state the restrictions imposed on the release of toxic 
substances into the environment and the responsibilities of all industries whose operations 
are likely to pollute the environment. Such responsibilities include provision of anti-
pollution equipment and adequate treatment of effluent before being discharged into the 
environment, etc. (S.1.8 & 9).  
 
FMEH & UD also has put in place procedural and sectoral guidelines detailing the EIA 
process including a categorization of environmental projects into Categories I, II and 
III. These guidelines require that a complete EIA be performed for Category I projects. 
Category II projects may not require an EIA depending on the screening criteria, while 
Category III projects do not require an EIA. 
 
In addition, the land use act is considered relevant to the project: 
 
Land Use Act  
 
The legal basis for land acquisition and resettlement in Nigeria is the Land Use Act of 
1978 which was modified in 1990. The following are selected relevant sections: 
 
Page  23
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
22
Section 1: Subject to the provision of this Act, all land comprised in the territory of 
each state in the Federation is vested in the Governor of each state and such land shall 
be held in trust and administered for the use and common benefit of all Nigerians in 
accordance with the provisions of this Act. 
 
Section 2: (a) All land in urban areas shall be under the control and management of the 
Governor of each State; and (b) all other land shall be under the control and 
management of the local government within the area of jurisdiction in which the land is 
situated. 
 
Therefore, according to the Land Use Act, all land in Nigeria is vested in the Governor 
of each State, and shall be held in trust for the use and common benefit of all people. 
The administration of land area is divided into urban land which will be directly under 
the control and management of the Governor of each State; and non-urban land, which 
will be under the control and management of the Local Government. The Governor of 
each State will have the right to grant statutory rights of occupancy to any person or 
any purpose; and the Local Government will have the right to grant customary rights of 
occupancy to any person or organization for agricultural, residential and other purposes. 
 
4.2.2 State 
 
By the provision of acts, edicts and laws the states have also set up State Environmental 
Protection Agencies or Authorities (SEPAs) as the regulatory bodies to protect and 
manage the environmental issues in the states. With respect to the three pilot states of 
Bauchi, Kaduna and Cross River; the following state environmental institutions exist: 
Bauchi State Environmental Protection Agency (BASEPA); Kaduna State 
Environmental Protection Authority (KEPA); and Environmental Protection and 
Assessment Department (EPAD) of the Cross River State Ministry of Environment. 
The functions of the SEPAs include: 
ƒ
Enforcement of all environmental legislations and policies; 
coordination and supervision of environmental assessment studies; Minimization of 
impacts of physical development on the ecosystem; Preservation, conservation and 
restoration to pre-impact status of all ecological processes essential to the preservation 
of biological diversity; 
ƒ
Protection of air, water, land, forest and wildlife within the states; 
ƒ
Pollution control and environmental health in the states; and 
ƒ
Co-operation with FMEH & UD and other agencies to achieve effective 
prevention of abatement of trans-boundary movement of waste. 
4.3 
Assessment of the Legal Framework 
 
The existing legal framework for environmental assessment in Nigeria is considered 
adequate. Detailed laws, regulations and guidelines have been developed and serve as 
the framework for conducting EIAs in both the public and private sectors. The 
implementation of these rules has been poor due to lack of adequate enforcement. 
 
Page  24
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
23
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Act 
 
The Act does not encourage the participation of people whose lives are likely to be 
affected by a project; rather, it encourages the collection and documentation of 
technical information which is confusing and unintelligible to a majority of people. All 
too often, the provisions enshrined in the law are not enforced.  
 
Environmental Policy 
 
The policy and its laudable institutional arrangements have not yielded the desired 
results. This is principally due to weak enforcement; inadequate manpower in the area 
of integrated environment management; insufficient political will; inadequate and 
mismanaged funding; a low degree of public awareness about environmental issues; 
and a top
–down approach to the planning and implementation of environmental 
programmes. 
 
Land Use Act 
 
The Land Use Act points out that the interests of individuals and communities have 
been reduced to mere rights of occupancy, which can be revoked by the appropriate 
authorities on certain conditions such as ‘over-riding public interest’ (right-of-way, 
mining activities etc). Moreover, the law is ambiguous in certain respects and makes 
interpretation difficult. The Act which grants excessive powers to the Federal and State 
Governments has a dramatic impact on land rights. It does not provide adequate 
security against forced evictions, harassment, and threats.  
 
4.4 International 
Environmental 
Agreements 
 
Nigeria is a signatory to the following relevant international conventions:   
 
ƒ
The African Convention on the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources, 
The African Convention, 1968;  
ƒ
The Convention Concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural 
Heritage, The World Heritage Convention, 1972;  
ƒ
The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna 
and Flora, CITES, 1973;  
ƒ
The Convention on Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals, Bonn, 
1979. 
ƒ
The Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movement of 
Hazardous Waste and Disposal, 1989; 
ƒ
The Framework Convention on Climate Change, Kyoto Protocol, 1995; 
ƒ
The Convention on Biological Diversity, 1992; 
ƒ
The Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Waste, 
MARPOL, 1972. 
 
Nigeria also has obligations to protect the environment through various commitments to 
the African Union (AU), the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) 
and the Commonwealth.  It is also committed through relations with the European 
Community under the Lome IV Convention.  
Page  25
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
24
4.4 
World Bank Safeguard Policies  
 
The SGCBP II has been categorized as B implying that the expected environmental 
impacts are largely site-specific and that mitigation measures can be designed relatively 
readily. The environmental assessment for a Category B project usually:  
·
examines the project’s potential negative and positive environmental impacts,  
·
recommends measures to prevent, minimize, mitigate, or compensate for 
adverse impacts, and 
·
recommends measures to improve environmental performance 
 
The World Bank has 10 Environmental and Social Safeguard Policies (see Annex 2) to 
reduce or eliminate the adverse effects of development projects, and improve decision 
making. These operational policies include:  
 
ƒ
OP/BP 4.01: Environmental Assessment 
ƒ
OP/BP 4.04: Natural Habitats  
ƒ
OP 4.09: Pest Management  
ƒ
OP/BP 4.12: Involuntary Resettlement 
ƒ
OD 4.20: Indigenous Peoples  
ƒ
OPN 11.03: Cultural Property  
ƒ
OP 4.36: Forests  
ƒ
OP/BP 4.37: Safety of Dams  
ƒ
OP/BP 7.50: Projects on International Waters  
ƒ
OP/BP 7.60: Projects in Disputed Areas  
 
The proposed project triggered the environmental assessment policy. 
This document i.e. the ESMF is the appropriate instrument prepared to address the 
triggered environmental assessment policy. 
 
OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment 
The objective of OP 4.01 is to ensure that projects financed by the Bank are 
environmentally and socially sustainable, and that the decision making process is 
improved through an appropriate analysis of the actions including their potential 
environmental impacts. Environmental assessment (EA) is a process whose breadth, 
depth, and type of analysis depend on the nature, scale, and potential environmental 
impact of the proposed project. EA takes into account the natural environment (air, 
water, and land); human health and safety; social aspects (involuntary resettlement, 
indigenous peoples, and cultural property); and trans-boundary and global 
environmental aspects.  
 
OP 4.01 is triggered if a project is likely to present some risks and potential adverse 
environmental impacts in its area of influence. Thus, in the case of the SGCBP II, 
potential negative environmental and social impacts will be due to construction and 
rehabilitation activities linked to educational institutions and the judiciary. 
 
Page  26
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
25
CHAPTER FIVE: POTENTIAL IMPACTS AND MITIGATION 
MEASURES 
5.1 Potential 
Impacts 
 
 
The rehabilitation and physical renovation of training institutes and judiciary 
offices/blocks may cause negative environmental impacts. Poorly planned 
institutions/offices and bad practices in construction, maintenance and rehabilitation 
could have negative effects. Table 5.1; gives an overview of the major environmental 
impacts resulting from the construction and/or renovation of educational and judicial 
infrastructures  
 
Table 5.1: Potential Environmental and Social Impacts of the SCBGP II 
Environmental Parameters 
Impacts 
ƒ
Soil erosion and modification of surface relief 
ƒ
Sedimentation of roadside water bodies and drains 
ƒ
Loss of productive topsoil in burrow areas 
Soil 
ƒ
Contamination from waste materials e.g. cement, paints, 
lubricants, fuels and detergents 
ƒ
Modification in flow of surface water /increased runoff 
ƒ
Drainage clogging  and creation of stagnant water pools 
ƒ
Contamination from hazardous wastes e.g. paints, 
lubricants, fuels  
Water 
 
ƒ
Sedimentation of surface water bodies 
ƒ
Damage, fragmentation or loss of habitat and 
biodiversity 
ƒ
Destruction of vegetation 
ƒ
Contamination of biota 
ƒ
Transmission of diseases 
ƒ
Destruction/disruption of wildlife 
Ecosystem 
 
ƒ
Threats to rare and endangered species  
Air 
ƒ
Air pollutants emission from construction machinery  
ƒ
Change in natural drainage pattern  
ƒ
Destruction of vegetation and trees 
Landscape 
 
ƒ
Deforestation and desertification 
ƒ
Transmission of diseases 
ƒ
Contamination of local water supplies 
ƒ
Air pollution  
ƒ
Noise & vibration disturbance 
Human health and safety 
 
ƒ
Obstructions owing to presence of road side barriers 
Page  27
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
26
5.2 Environmental 
Impacts 
5.2.1 Construction 
Phase 
 
i
Flora and Fauna 
 
The rehabilitation/construction of new institutions and offices and/or the expansion and 
upgrading of existing institutions could result in clearing and depletion of vegetation that will 
result in: loss of plant cover, disturbance and loss of fauna habitats, weakening and degradation 
of soils, disturbance of the natural landscape and disfiguring of the natural morphology. 
 
ii 
Soil and Land Degradation 
 
Earth-moving equipment such as excavators will be used in cutting and excavation. This earth 
moving equipment will expose the soil to erosion and also compact it and break down the soil 
structure which will potentially decrease the drainage of the areas. 
 
Furthermore, the risk of accidental discharge of hazardous products, leakage of hydrocarbons, 
oils or grease from construction machinery also constitute potential sources of  soils and water 
pollution. Moreover, the high pressure on water resources can cause potential conflicts, 
particularly during the dry seasons in certain localities of high water scarcity in the northern 
states of Kaduna and Bauchi. 
 
iii Waste 
Management 
 
Activities at construction sites will produce construction wastes such as excavated soils and 
debris. Excavated wastes could obstruct the general public, the movement of the workers and 
vehicles as well as affect the aesthetics of the environment.  
 
iv 
Slope, erosion and drainage 
 
If the topography of the project area is hilly, erosion problems during construction are likely to 
be more severe, as compared to a flat area.. 
 
v
Air Quality 
 
Air Quality will be impacted by emissions from vehicles, earthmoving equipment and released 
particulate matters. At the peak of construction; various equipment rated between 200-600 
horsepower and burning diesel fuel will be operated. 
 
vi Water 
Quality 
 
Water quality will be impacted by wastewater discharges from construction activities. These 
will include discharges from onsite sewage system and rainwater run-off from the developed 
areas such as workshops etc. The discharge of this wastewater into surface waters will impact 
water quality by causing changes to its physical, chemical and biological properties.    
 
Given the high anticipated volume of waste/spoil that will be generated, it is likely that the 
waste will be stockpiled on road sides.  If it is not properly contained, rains could carry it along 
with runoff into other surface waters, leading to increased turbidity and siltation. This could 
affect aquatic resources such as fisheries and aquatic invertebrates. 
 
Page  28
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
27
5.2.2 Operation 
Phase 
 
i. Visual 
Intrusion 
 
Educational institutions rehabilitation and construction will change the characters of the area 
(marred landscapes). The clearing of vegetation required for the expansion of existing 
schools/offices will impact the visual amenity of nearby houses and surrounding communities. 
 
5.3 
Social and Health Impacts 
5.3.1 Construction 
Phase 
 
i
Loss of Livelihood  
 
Land acquisition for construction of new schools could cause changes in land use pattern and 
result in displacement, especially in the urban areas. This will cause significant disruption to the 
communities as it could affect small businesses such as cafeterias, mechanic shops etc. 
 
ii 
Disruption of Utilities Service 
 
The excavation and cutting during construction may cause temporary disruptions of utility 
services such as electricity and water. Such disruptions may incur the anger of the communities 
in the project area. 
 
iii 
Vehicular Traffic
 
Construction works will result in a high traffic volume around the institutions and within the 
communities. Wastes generated from project activities such as cement bags, paint drums and 
debris could result in pollution and constitute obstructions to vehicular traffic.The transport of 
raw materials will introduce a number of heavy trucks on the access road and this could 
increase the risk of motor accidents and result in vehicular-pedestrian conflicts.  
 
iv 
Contractors’ (Workers) Camp 
 
The civil work contractor will have to establish and operate a camp which will house offices, 
workshops etc. The selection of the camp location should be based on approval of the project 
engineer. 
 
Problems that may be encountered include disposal of liquid and solid wastes. Other social 
impacts associated with the contractors’ camp are theft, alcoholism and sexually transmitted 
diseases (especially HIV/AIDS).  
 
v
Public Health  
 
On flat areas, water will not drain away easily, and stagnant pools of water will be created. 
These pools, if not drained regularly will provide favourable breeding grounds for mosquito 
and other disease vectors 
Page  29
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
28
vi 
Occupational Safety and Health
 
The safety of the local population may be at risk during construction activities. The movement 
of trucks to and from the site, the operation of various equipment and machinery and the actual 
construction activities will expose the workers to work-related accidents and injuries. Pollutants 
such as dust and noise could also have negative implications for the health of workers and near-
by communities. 
 
vii 
Noise 
 
Noise and vibration caused by machines, site vehicles, pneumatic drills etc will be 
commonplace during construction activities. These impacts can affect the quietness of the 
communities and provoke irritation and anger. 
 
viii Traffic 
 
Communities around the construction sites (where schools and/or offices are being upgraded or 
constructed) will experience heavier human and vehicular traffic. Construction related activities 
will be a nuisance to road users e.g. storage of construction stones by the road side.  
 
5.3.2 Operation 
Phase 
 
i
)
Improved access to education 
 
The project implementation will improve access to quality basic education, especially for 
disadvantaged groups (e.g. girls, poor families) and also access to justice by renovating court 
offices/premises.  
 
ii)  
National Development 
 
The impacts of the project on national development are largely positive. The implementation of 
the SCBGP II will enhance the opportunities available for the general public in the participating 
states especially the rural areas. 
 
iii) Road 
Accidents 
 
The improvement of access and quality of the schools will translate into a higher pedestrian 
traffic (teachers, and students). This could increase the likelihood of road accidents. 
 
iv)   Community Development 
 
Positive impacts on community development would include enhancement of educational 
standards, diversification of knowledge notably in the scientific and technical fields, and 
improved access to formal education previously unavailable to a large number of rural 
communities. 
 
Provision of socio-cultural infrastructures such as playgrounds and sports facilities will have 
beneficial impacts on the communities as well as contributing towards the reduction of 
delinquency. 
Page  30
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
29
5.4 Mitigation 
 
 
Environmental mitigation consists of measures that can reduce the negative environmental 
impacts associated with implementation (construction, expansion, rehabilitation etc) of the 
project. 
5.4.1 
Mitigation Measures  
 
Mitigation measures have been identified that would reduce both existing and potential impacts 
associated with existing facilities and rehabilitation/upgrading/new construction on the 
proposed project. Potential impacts and related measures are identified in Table 5.3.  
 
The table indicates the areas to which the potential impact and its associated measure apply. In 
addition, mitigation measures are identified as either social or physical measures. Social 
mitigation includes the measures used to mitigate effects such as noise, land use, and other 
effects to the human environment. Physical mitigation includes measures that address impacts 
to the physical environment, such as biological communities, vegetation, air quality, and others 
 
Page  31
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
a
n
d
S
o
c
i
a
l
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
F
r
a
m
e
w
o
r
k
f
o
r
S
G
C
B
P
E
a
r
t
h
g
u
a
r
d
s
L
i
m
i
t
e
d
3
0
T
a
b
l
e
5
.
2
:
S
u
m
m
a
r
y
o
f
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
a
n
d
S
o
c
i
a
l
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
M
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
R
e
c
o
m
m
e
n
d
e
d
M
i
t
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
M
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
P
h
y
s
i
c
a
l
R
e
s
o
u
r
c
e
s
L
a
n
d
U
s
e
ƒ
V
i
s
u
a
l
i
m
p
a
c
t
f
o
l
l
o
w
i
n
g
t
h
e
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
f
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
d
e
m
o
l
i
t
i
o
n
w
a
s
t
e
o
n
t
o
r
o
a
d
s
i
d
e
s
ƒ
R
e
g
u
l
a
r
c
o
l
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
e
v
a
c
u
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
w
o
r
k
s
i
t
e
r
e
f
u
s
e
t
o
w
a
r
d
s
a
u
t
h
o
r
i
z
e
d
d
u
m
p
s
ƒ
I
n
v
o
l
v
e
m
e
n
t
o
f
t
h
e
L
o
c
a
l
G
o
v
e
r
n
m
e
n
t
A
u
t
h
o
r
i
t
i
e
s
a
n
d
C
o
m
m
u
n
i
t
i
e
s
i
n
t
h
e
s
e
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
d
i
s
c
h
a
r
g
e
s
i
t
e
s
N
o
i
s
e
ƒ
E
m
p
l
o
y
e
e
s
a
n
d
c
o
m
m
u
n
i
t
i
e
s
e
x
p
o
s
e
d
t
o
h
i
g
h
n
o
i
s
e
l
e
v
e
l
ƒ
D
i
s
r
u
p
t
i
o
n
o
f
s
c
h
o
o
l
a
n
d
e
d
u
c
a
t
i
o
n
a
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
d
u
r
i
n
g
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
w
o
r
k
s
ƒ
I
n
s
t
a
l
l
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
s
o
u
n
d
i
n
s
u
l
a
t
i
o
n
.
ƒ
S
c
h
e
d
u
l
e
w
o
r
k
p
e
r
i
o
d
s
t
o
a
v
o
i
d
s
c
h
o
o
l
h
o
u
r
s
A
i
r
Q
u
a
l
i
t
y
ƒ
E
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
o
f
p
o
l
l
u
t
a
n
t
s
f
r
o
m
m
o
b
i
l
e
(
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
)
a
n
d
s
t
a
t
i
o
n
a
r
y
(
m
i
x
e
r
s
,
g
e
n
e
r
a
t
o
r
s
e
t
c
)
s
o
u
r
c
e
s
.
ƒ
A
i
r
p
o
l
l
u
t
i
o
n
f
r
o
m
b
u
r
n
i
n
g
o
f
d
e
m
o
l
i
t
i
o
n
w
a
s
t
e
s
e
.
g
.
w
o
o
d
,
p
a
p
e
r
e
t
c
ƒ
I
n
t
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
d
u
s
t
r
e
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
i
n
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
s
i
t
e
s
ƒ
S
a
f
e
t
y
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
p
u
t
i
n
p
l
a
c
e
S
o
i
l
ƒ
P
o
i
n
t
s
o
u
r
c
e
c
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
f
r
o
m
d
i
e
s
e
l
,
l
u
b
r
i
c
a
n
t
s
e
t
c
a
r
o
u
n
d
w
o
r
k
s
h
o
p
a
r
e
a
s
.
ƒ
I
n
c
r
e
a
s
e
d
s
o
i
l
e
r
o
s
i
o
n
d
u
e
t
o
v
e
g
e
t
a
t
i
o
n
c
l
e
a
r
i
n
g
,
s
o
i
l
t
r
a
m
p
l
i
n
g
a
n
d
c
o
m
p
a
c
t
i
o
n
ƒ
I
n
c
r
e
a
s
e
d
r
a
p
i
d
r
u
n
o
f
f
d
u
e
t
o
v
e
g
e
t
a
t
i
o
n
c
l
e
a
r
i
n
g
a
n
d
s
o
i
l
c
o
m
p
a
c
t
i
o
n
d
i
m
i
n
i
s
h
i
n
g
i
n
f
i
l
t
r
a
t
i
o
n
c
a
p
a
c
i
t
y
ƒ
D
e
t
e
r
i
o
r
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
s
o
i
l
c
h
a
r
a
c
t
e
r
i
s
t
i
c
s
d
u
e
t
o
i
n
c
r
e
a
s
e
d
e
r
o
s
i
o
n
ƒ
A
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
m
e
n
t
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
f
o
r
a
l
l
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
a
r
e
a
s
a
n
d
p
r
o
p
e
r
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
f
u
s
e
d
l
u
b
r
i
c
a
n
t
s
.
ƒ
S
o
i
l
e
r
o
s
i
o
n
c
o
n
t
r
o
l
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
(
e
.
g
.
r
e
f
o
r
e
s
t
a
t
i
o
n
,
r
e
s
e
e
d
i
n
g
o
f
g
r
a
s
s
e
s
,
l
a
n
d
p
r
e
p
a
r
a
t
i
o
n
,
t
e
r
r
a
c
i
n
g
e
t
c
)
W
a
t
e
r
Q
u
a
l
i
t
y
ƒ
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
p
o
l
l
u
t
i
o
n
o
f
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
a
n
d
g
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
t
h
o
u
g
h
r
u
n
o
f
f
o
f
p
o
l
l
u
t
a
n
t
s
e
.
g
.
l
u
b
r
i
c
a
t
i
n
g
o
i
l
,
d
i
e
s
e
l
f
u
e
l
e
t
c
f
r
o
m
w
o
r
k
s
h
o
p
a
r
e
a
s
e
t
c
ƒ
W
a
t
e
r
p
o
l
l
u
t
i
o
n
d
u
e
t
o
s
e
e
p
a
g
e
f
r
o
m
t
a
n
k
s
(
d
i
e
s
e
l
,
s
a
n
i
t
a
r
y
w
a
s
t
e
s
e
t
c
)
ƒ
L
a
c
k
o
f
w
a
t
e
r
f
o
r
s
a
n
i
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
r
t
o
i
l
e
t
f
a
c
i
l
i
t
i
e
s
ƒ
H
e
a
v
y
w
a
t
e
r
u
s
a
g
e
r
e
s
u
l
t
i
n
g
i
n
r
e
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
s
u
r
f
a
c
e
a
n
d
g
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
s
o
u
r
c
e
s
ƒ
A
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
m
e
n
t
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
f
o
r
a
l
l
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
a
r
e
a
s
a
n
d
p
r
o
p
e
r
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
f
u
s
e
d
l
u
b
r
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
o
i
l
.
ƒ
W
o
r
k
s
i
t
e
s
I
n
s
t
a
l
l
e
d
f
a
r
f
r
o
m
w
a
t
e
r
w
a
y
s
ƒ
R
e
g
u
l
a
r
c
o
l
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
w
o
r
k
s
i
t
e
s
w
a
s
t
e
s
f
o
r
p
r
o
p
e
r
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
ƒ
L
i
q
u
i
d
w
a
s
t
e
d
i
s
c
h
a
r
g
e
d
a
t
d
e
s
i
g
n
a
t
e
d
o
u
t
f
a
l
l
s
a
f
t
e
r
e
f
f
l
u
e
n
t
t
r
e
a
t
m
e
n
t
t
o
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
w
a
t
e
r
r
e
s
o
u
r
c
e
s
ƒ
R
e
g
u
l
a
r
e
m
p
t
y
i
n
g
o
f
o
n
-
s
i
t
e
l
a
t
r
i
n
e
s
a
n
d
t
o
i
l
e
t
s
Page  32
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
a
n
d
S
o
c
i
a
l
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
F
r
a
m
e
w
o
r
k
f
o
r
S
G
C
B
P
E
a
r
t
h
g
u
a
r
d
s
L
i
m
i
t
e
d
3
1
B
i
o
l
o
g
i
c
a
l
R
e
s
o
u
r
c
e
s
V
e
g
e
t
a
t
i
o
n
ƒ
V
e
g
e
t
a
t
i
o
n
c
l
e
a
r
i
n
g
r
e
s
u
l
t
i
n
g
i
n
l
o
s
s
o
f
v
a
l
u
a
b
l
e
h
a
b
i
t
a
t
,
s
p
e
c
i
e
s
d
i
v
e
r
s
i
t
y
a
n
d
p
o
p
u
l
a
t
i
o
n
l
e
v
e
l
s
.
ƒ
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
o
n
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
e
d
a
r
e
a
s
;
c
r
i
t
i
c
a
l
h
a
b
i
t
a
t
s
f
o
r
r
a
r
e
s
p
e
c
i
e
s
o
r
o
f
e
c
o
l
o
g
i
c
o
r
d
o
m
e
s
t
i
c
i
m
p
o
r
t
a
n
c
e
.
ƒ
N
o
s
i
t
i
n
g
a
n
d
e
x
c
a
v
a
t
i
o
n
s
i
n
s
e
n
s
i
t
i
v
e
h
a
b
i
t
a
t
ƒ
C
a
r
e
f
u
l
p
l
a
n
n
i
n
g
a
n
d
s
e
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
s
i
t
e
s
ƒ
F
o
r
e
s
t
s
a
n
d
c
u
l
t
u
r
a
l
h
e
r
i
t
a
g
e
s
i
t
e
s
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
o
n
e
n
f
o
r
c
e
d
.
W
i
l
d
l
i
f
e
ƒ
W
i
l
d
l
i
f
e
i
m
p
a
c
t
e
d
t
h
r
o
u
g
h
d
i
r
e
c
t
l
o
s
s
,
l
o
s
s
o
f
m
o
v
e
m
e
n
t
c
o
r
r
i
d
o
r
s
,
a
n
d
i
n
d
i
r
e
c
t
l
y
t
h
r
o
u
g
h
i
n
t
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
n
o
i
s
e
a
n
d
p
o
l
l
u
t
a
n
t
s
.
ƒ
P
r
e
-
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
f
o
c
u
s
e
d
s
u
r
v
e
y
s
,
d
u
s
t
a
n
d
n
o
i
s
e
a
b
a
t
e
m
e
n
t
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
,
a
n
d
m
i
n
i
m
i
z
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
g
e
n
e
r
a
t
e
d
p
o
l
l
u
t
a
n
t
s
.
W
e
t
l
a
n
d
s
ƒ
E
x
p
a
n
s
i
o
n
a
n
d
n
e
w
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
e
n
c
r
o
a
c
h
i
n
g
o
n
t
h
e
w
e
t
l
a
n
d
a
n
d
d
i
r
e
c
t
l
y
i
m
p
a
c
t
w
e
t
l
a
n
d
p
l
a
n
t
c
o
m
m
u
n
i
t
i
e
s
.
ƒ
P
r
e
s
e
r
v
a
t
i
o
n
,
r
e
s
t
o
r
a
t
i
o
n
,
a
n
d
e
n
h
a
n
c
e
m
e
n
t
o
f
e
x
i
s
t
i
n
g
w
e
t
l
a
n
d
.
ƒ
S
e
n
s
i
t
i
v
e
a
n
d
c
r
i
t
i
c
a
l
h
a
b
i
t
a
t
s
a
v
o
i
d
e
d
F
a
r
m
l
a
n
d
s
a
n
d
G
r
a
z
i
n
g
A
r
e
a
s
ƒ
L
a
n
d
t
a
k
e
f
o
r
n
e
w
s
c
h
o
o
l
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
c
o
u
l
d
l
e
a
d
t
o
l
o
s
s
o
f
f
a
r
m
l
a
n
d
a
n
d
g
r
a
z
i
n
g
a
r
e
a
s
.
ƒ
F
a
r
m
l
a
n
d
a
n
d
g
r
a
z
i
n
g
a
r
e
a
s
s
h
o
u
l
d
b
e
r
e
l
o
c
a
t
e
d
t
o
o
t
h
e
r
a
r
e
a
s
.
ƒ
I
f
p
o
s
s
i
b
l
e
a
v
o
i
d
f
a
r
m
l
a
n
d
s
a
n
d
g
r
a
z
i
n
g
a
r
e
a
s
.
S
o
l
i
d
/
H
a
z
a
r
d
o
u
s
W
a
s
t
e
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
ƒ
S
o
l
i
d
w
a
s
t
e
g
e
n
e
r
a
t
e
d
f
r
o
m
d
e
m
o
l
i
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
a
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
c
o
n
t
a
i
n
i
n
g
p
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
l
y
h
a
z
a
r
d
o
u
s
m
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
s
(
e
.
g
.
a
s
b
e
s
t
o
s
)
.
ƒ
W
a
s
t
e
g
e
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
d
u
r
i
n
g
b
u
i
l
d
i
n
g
w
o
r
k
s
p
i
l
i
n
g
o
n
t
h
e
r
o
a
d
s
i
d
e
ƒ
Q
u
i
c
k
s
o
r
t
i
n
g
,
c
o
l
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
d
i
s
p
o
s
a
l
o
f
w
a
s
t
e
r
e
m
o
v
e
d
f
r
o
m
t
h
e
s
i
t
e
s
i
n
a
c
c
o
r
d
a
n
c
e
w
i
t
h
a
p
p
l
i
c
a
b
l
e
r
e
g
u
l
a
t
i
o
n
s
.
S
o
c
i
a
l
H
e
a
l
t
h
a
n
d
S
a
f
e
t
y
ƒ
R
i
s
k
s
o
f
r
o
a
d
a
c
c
i
d
e
n
t
s
d
u
r
i
n
g
w
o
r
k
ƒ
C
o
n
t
a
m
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
r
i
s
k
b
y
H
I
V
f
r
o
m
t
h
e
l
a
b
o
u
r
f
o
r
c
e
.
ƒ
C
o
n
d
u
c
t
a
n
a
w
a
r
e
n
e
s
s
r
a
i
s
i
n
g
c
a
m
p
a
i
g
n
f
o
r
t
h
e
w
o
r
k
s
i
t
e
s
s
t
a
f
f
a
n
d
t
h
e
u
s
e
r
s
o
f
s
c
h
o
o
l
i
n
f
r
a
s
t
r
u
c
t
u
r
e
s
(
p
u
p
i
l
s
,
s
t
u
d
e
n
t
s
,
t
e
a
c
h
e
r
s
,
e
t
c
.
)
ƒ
C
o
n
d
u
c
t
a
w
a
r
e
n
e
s
s
r
a
i
s
i
n
g
c
a
m
p
a
i
g
n
s
o
n
H
I
V
/
A
I
D
S
L
a
n
d
U
s
e
ƒ
I
n
v
o
l
u
n
t
a
r
y
d
i
s
p
l
a
c
e
m
e
n
t
o
f
p
o
p
u
l
a
t
i
o
n
s
o
r
e
c
o
n
o
m
i
c
a
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
ƒ
C
h
a
n
g
e
s
o
f
e
x
i
s
t
i
n
g
u
s
e
s
w
i
t
h
i
n
a
f
f
e
c
t
e
d
c
o
m
m
u
n
i
t
i
e
s
.
ƒ
A
c
q
u
i
s
i
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
r
e
l
o
c
a
t
i
o
n
s
h
o
u
l
d
o
c
c
u
r
i
n
a
c
c
o
r
d
a
n
c
e
w
i
t
h
a
p
p
r
o
p
r
i
a
t
e
r
e
g
u
l
a
t
i
o
n
s
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
W
o
r
l
d
B
a
n
k
O
P
/
B
P
4
.
1
2
I
n
v
o
l
u
n
t
a
r
y
R
e
s
e
t
t
l
e
m
e
n
t
.
ƒ
A
v
o
i
d
f
a
c
i
l
i
t
i
e
s
i
n
a
r
e
a
s
t
h
a
t
w
i
l
l
n
e
e
d
r
e
s
e
t
t
l
e
m
e
n
t
,
t
h
e
d
i
s
p
l
a
c
e
m
e
n
t
;
o
r
t
h
e
e
n
c
r
o
a
c
h
m
e
n
t
o
n
h
i
s
t
o
r
i
c
,
c
u
l
t
u
r
a
l
o
r
t
r
a
d
i
t
i
o
n
a
l
u
s
e
a
r
e
a
s
Page  33
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
32
5.4.2 Mitigation 
Funding 
 
i) 
Cost of Design Measures
 
The quantities, specifications and estimated costs of design measures to avoid or mitigate 
negative impacts will be assessed by the civil design contractor and incorporated into the 
bidding documents. The contractor will execute all required works and will be reimbursed 
through pay items in the bill of quantities, which will be financed by the project. 
The total cost is estimated at N 2, 991, 423 ($24, 928.58). This estimate is based on the assumption 
that resource persons are likely to come from other parts of the country and therefore require travel 
allowances; participants will come from the institutions and attend during the day only but will 
receive per diem. 
 
Item Responsibility 
Cost 
Breakdown 
Cost Estimate 
in 
Nigerian Naira 
(N) 
Cost Estimate 
in 
Us Dollars 
(Us$) 
Mitigation 
State’s SGCBP and State’s 
EPA  
 N
1, 754, 500 
$14, 620.83 
Management 
State’s SGCBP 
5% of Mitigation Cost
N
87, 725 
$731.04 
Capacity 
Building 
State’s SGCBP Staff/ 
Consultants 
25% of Mitigation 
Cost 
N
438, 625 
$3, 655.21 
Monitoring State’s 
SGCBP 
/ 
State’s 
EPA 
25% of Mitigation 
Cost 
N
438, 625 
($3, 655.21 
Sub- Total 
 
 
N
2, 719, 475 
$22, 662.29 
Contingency 
 
10% of Sub- Total 
N
271, 948. 
$2, 266.29 
Total    
N
2, 991, 423 
$24, 928.58 
ii) HIV/AIDS 
Awareness 
Program
 
The quantities, specifications and estimated costs of the HIV/AIDS Awareness Program and 
condom distribution will be assessed by the design consultant and incorporated into the works 
bidding documents. The contractor will execute the program through a subcontractor and will 
be reimbursed through pay items in the bill of quantities, which will be financed by the project. 
 
Page  34
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
33
CHAPTER 6: IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS FOR 
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 
 
In SCBGP, some changes are being made in order to strengthen project management 
and oversight arrangements and in response to recent changes in leadership. In this 
regard, the project in Bauchi State is being re-located from the Ministry of Budget and 
Planning to the Office of the State Head of Service to provide improved oversight and 
coordination. In the same vein, at the request of the Cross River State Government, the 
project is being re-located from the Office of the State Head of Service to the State 
Planning Commission (SPC). The SPC coordinates all donor projects in the state and 
the relocation is to provide improved oversight and coordination with other donor 
projects. As part of the changes, the state governments have agreed to implement the 
provision in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) requiring each state to appoint a 
full time project coordinator. Until now project coordinators in all three states have 
been part-time and this has contributed to weak coordination and the delays in project 
implementation. Other measures that are being taken to strengthen the capacity of the 
project implementation units include the continuous training of procurement officers, 
hiring of short-term procurement and M&E consultants to provide hands-on support 
and training, and agreement on joint project implementation monitoring arrangements 
with the state governments. The National Project Coordinating Unit (NPCU) will be 
responsible for overall project coordination and support at the national level. At the 
state level, the State Project Coordinating Unit (SPCU) will responsible for project 
implementation. 
 
With respect to the implementation of this Environmental and Social Management 
Framework (ESMF), it is recommended that each SPCU recruits an environmental and 
social specialist on a part time basis that will be responsible for following up the 
recommendations of the ESMF. Since there is just one sub-project i.e. rehabilitation of 
educational and judicial institutions, there is no need for a screening mechanism, as the 
mitigations measure’s contained in the report suffices. The chances of preparing a full  
EIA under this project is very remote due to the small and site specific nature of the 
impacts. However, if it happens, a typical TOR for an EIA/ESIA is shown on Annex 3. 
It is also important that all bidding documents and final contracts contain the general 
environmental and social management clause (see Annex 4). This is to tie the contractor 
to respect environmental and social concerns during civil works. 
 
Capacity building in environmental management is also essential during project 
implementation. The objectives of the training/capacity building efforts under proposed 
project will be to:  
 
·
Support the SPCUs to mainstream environmental and social issues in their sub-
projects; and 
 
·
Strengthen the capacity of local NGOs and other services providers to provide 
technical support to communities in environmental and social aspects of the sub-
projects. 
Page  35
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
34
The target audience for training, sensitization and capacity building, will inter-alia 
include the following: 
·
Project Coordinators  
·
Project Teams 
·
LGAs Staff involved in environmental and social concerns 
·
Environment consultant (s) at the SPCU 
·
NGO’s/CBOs in the educational and judicial sectors 
·
State Environmental Protection Agencies/Authorities 
 
The training will follow the programme in table 6.1 below: 
 
Table 6.1 Institutional Capacity Strengthening Program  
Target 
Audience 
Description Application 
Duration 
Project 
coordinators/te
ams 
General environmental awareness 
seminar that will include ecological and 
social science principles, legal 
responsibilities, consequences of non-
sustainable development, costs of poor 
environmental decisions, and introduction 
to the EIA process and the use of the 
environment and social screening 
mechanism. 
Personnel require appreciation of 
WB’s, Federal/State 
environmental policies, as well 
as, an appreciation for the need 
to support environmentally 
sustainable development.  
Three days 
seminar  
Environmental 
specialist/cons
ultant, officials 
of SEPAs and 
LGA 
environmental 
and social 
specialists 
An in-depth comprehensive course on 
environmental management including 
legal requirements, EIA methodology, 
Impact determination (methods) and 
mitigation analysis, public involvement 
methods, ESMP preparation, monitoring 
techniques, preparation of EIAs, TORs, 
and other. Course will include field visits 
and classroom exercises. 
The target audience will be 
responsible for EA review at the 
State level and for preparing 
TORs for EIA consultants as 
well as monitoring consultants’ 
work and final approval of EIAs. 
Target audience will also be 
responsible for conducting 
environmental audits on selected 
sub-projects and for periodic 
monitoring of sub-project 
implementation to ensure 
compliance. 
five days 
workshop 
CBOs/NGOs 
in the health 
sector 
General environmental awareness 
seminar that will include ecological and 
social science principles and introduction 
to the EIA process. 
NGOs/CBOs  requires an 
appreciation for the WB’s and 
Nigerian environmental 
requirements/procedures.  
One day 
The cost estimates are based on the assumption that resource persons are likely to come 
from other parts of the country and therefore require travel allowances; participants will 
come from local communities and attend during the day only but will receive a per diem. 
These estimates include an allowance for travel expenses.  
The total cost is estimated at a lump sum US $ 200,000. 
 
Page  36
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
35
CHAPTER SEVEN: PUBLIC CONSULTATION PLAN 
 
The different SPCUs have responsibilities to effectively engage stakeholders in achieving the 
project objectives for the benefit of all. The successful implementation of the SCBGP II 
depends on the meaningful participation of all stakeholders.  
7.1 
Objectives
 
This plan provides a framework for achieving effective stakeholder involvement and promoting 
greater awareness and understanding of issues so that the project is carried out effectively 
within budget and on-time to the satisfaction of all concerned. 
To ensure effective implementation of this plan, the SPCU shall be committed to the following 
principles: 
·
promoting openness and  communication;  
·
ensuring effective stakeholder involvement in the development of the project; 
·
increasing public knowledge and understanding of the project implementation process;  
·
using all strategies and techniques which provide appropriate, timely and adequate 
opportunities for all stakeholders to participate; and 
·
evaluating the effectiveness of the engagement plan in accordance with the expected 
outcomes. 
7.2 Identifying 
Stakeholders 
 
Stakeholders for the purpose of this project shall be defined as all those people and institutions
that have an interest in the successful planning and execution of the project. This includes those 
likely to be positively and negatively affected by the project. Table 7-1 identifies the key 
stakeholders.  
 
Table 7.1: Stakeholder Identification Matrix 
Affected Parties  
How to identify them 
People living in the vicinity of the proposed 
works. (students, teachers, magistrates, 
judges etc) 
 
·
Identify the local government area(s) that falls within 
500m radius of the proposed schools and offices.  
·
Review available data to determine the profile of the 
whole stakeholder or relevant group.  
·
Use identified groups and individuals to tap into 
stakeholder networks to identify others.  
Special interest groups  
·
Identify key individuals or groups through organized 
groups, local clubs, community halls and religious places. 
·
Be aware of similar local groups or individuals. 
7.3 Consultation 
Strategies 
 
The consultation process shall ensure that all those identified as stakeholders are conferred 
with. Subject to SPCU
 coordinator’s approval, the Environmental/Social consultant will share 
information about the project with the public to enable meaningful contributions and thus 
enhance the success of the project. 
 
Page  37
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
36
Public consultation will take place through workshops, seminars, meetings, radio 
programme, request for written proposals/comments, questionnaire administration, 
public reading and explanation of project ideas and requirements. 
Page  38
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
37
ANNEX 1: List of Persons Contacted  
 
1)  Basssey Ebri Asuguo   
Project coordinator Cross River State PCU 
2)  Mr Emmmamuel Okokon 
Procurement officer Cross River State PCU 
3)  Mrs Regina Elu Ogboaaka 
Monitoring and Evaluation officer Cross River State PCU 
4)  Mr Ettah James  
 
MIS Specialist Cross River State PCU 
5)  Mrs Helen Etim 
 
Project Finance Officer  Cross River State PCU 
6)  Mr Steven Utre 
 
Head of EIA Cross  River State EPAD 
7)  Mr. Edward Gekpe 
 
Director Cross River State EPAD 
8)  Mohammed Aminu Ibrahim 
Project Coordinator Bauchi State PCU 
9)  Engr. Dauadi Mohammed 
Procurement Advisor Bauchi State PCU 
10) 
Ibrahim Ahmad Rufa’I  
Procurement Officer Bauchi State PCU 
11) Usman B. Alhaji 
 
Project Accountant 
12) Goje Saidu Dani 
 
Project Internal Auditor 
13) Yakubu Mudi   
 
Project M & E 
14) Aminu A. Kakudi 
 
Project Cashier 
15) Rejoice Daniel  
 
Project Secretary 
16) Aminu Ibrahim 
 
EIA Specialist Bauchi State EPA 
17) Dr. Dije B. Ibrahim  
 
Chief Executive Chairman Bauchi State EPA 
18) Moh’d Hussaini Abubakar 
Permanent Secretary Bauchi State EPA 
19) Moh;d Umar Dodoji 
 
HOD Environmental Conservation Bauchi State EPA 
20) 
Moh’d 
Abba 
  Environmental 
Conservation 
Bauchi 
State 
EPA 
21) Abdullahi Umar 
 
Dir.Admin & Finance Bauchi State EPA 
22) Mr. Joshua Kure 
 
Project Coordinator Kaduna State PCU 
23) Mahmud Yamusa 
 
M & E Officer Kaduna State PCU 
24) John Usman  
 
 
Procurement Officer Kaduna State PCU 
25) Ibrahim Usman 
 
Communication Officer Kaduna State PCU 
26) Ibrahim Idris    
 
Project Finance Officer Kaduna State PCU 
27) Ibrahim Hussaini 
 
General Manager  Kaduna State EPA 
28) Aminu S. Sani  
 
Director Laboratory Services Kaduna State EPA 
29) Mrs. Ester Bawa 
 
Director Environmental Assessment Kaduna State EPA 
 
Page  39
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
38
ANNEX 2: Summary Of World Bank Environmental And Social Safeguard Policies.  
 
·
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01).
 Outlines Bank policy and procedure for the 
environmental assessment of Bank lending operations. The Bank undertakes 
environmental screening of each proposed project to determine the appropriate 
extent and type of EA process. This environmental process will apply to all sub-
projects to be funded by the proposed project. 
 
·
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04).
 The conservation of natural habitats, like other 
measures that protect and enhance the environment, is essential for long-term 
sustainable development. The Bank does not support projects involving the 
significant conversion of natural habitats unless there are no feasible alternatives for 
the project and its siting, and comprehensive analysis demonstrates that overall 
benefits from the project substantially outweigh the environmental costs. If the 
environmental assessment indicates that a project would significantly convert or 
degrade natural habitats, the project includes mitigation measures acceptable to the 
Bank. Such mitigation measures include, as appropriate, minimizing habitat loss 
(e.g. strategic habitat retention and post-development restoration) and establishing 
and maintaining an ecologically similar protected area. The Bank accepts other 
forms of mitigation measures only when they are technically justified. Should the 
sub-project-specific EMPs indicate that natural habitats might be affected 
negatively by the proposed sub-project activities with suitable mitigation measures, 
such sub-projects will not be funded under this project  
 
·
Pest Management (OP 4.09).
 The policy supports safe, affective, and 
environmentally sound pest management. It promotes the use of biological and 
environmental control methods. An assessment is made of the capacity of the 
country’s regulatory framework and institutions to promote and support safe, 
effective, and environmentally sound pest management. This policy was not 
triggered by the proposed project.  
 
·
Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12).
 
This policy covers direct economic and social 
impacts that both result from Bank-assisted investment projects, and are caused by 
(a) the involuntary taking of land resulting in (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) 
loss of assets or access to assets, or (iii) loss of income sources or means of 
livelihood, whether or not the affected persons must move to another location; or 
(b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected 
areas resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihoods of the displaced persons. The 
project did not trigger this policy. 
 
·
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20).
 This directive provides guidance to ensure that 
indigenous peoples benefit from development projects, and to avoid or mitigate 
adverse effects of Bank-financed development projects on indigenous peoples. 
Measures to address issues pertaining to indigenous peoples must be based on the 
informed participation of the indigenous people themselves. Sub-projects that 
would have negative impacts on indigenous people will not be funded under the 
proposed project. 
 
Page  40
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
39
·
Forests (OP 4.36).
 This policy applies to the following types of Bank-financed 
investment projects: (a) projects that have or may have impacts on the health and 
quality of forests; (b) projects that affect the rights and welfare of people and their 
level of dependence upon or interaction with forests; and (c) projects that aim to 
bring about changes in the management, protection, or utilization of natural forests 
or plantations, whether they are publicly, privately, or communally owned. The 
Bank does not finance projects that, in its opinion, would involve significant 
conversion or degradation of critical forest areas or related critical habitats.  If a 
project involves the significant conversion or degradation of natural forests or 
related natural habitats that the Bank determines are not critical, and the Bank 
determines that there are no feasible alternatives to the project and its siting, and 
comprehensive analysis demonstrates that overall benefits from the project 
substantially outweigh the environmental costs, the Bank may finance the project 
provided that it incorporates appropriate mitigation measures. Sub-projects with 
likelihood of having negative impacts on forests will not be funded under the 
project. 
 
·
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03).
 The term “cultural property” includes sites having 
archaeological (prehistoric), paleontological, historical, religious, and unique 
natural values. The Bank’s general policy regarding cultural property is to assist in 
their preservation, and to seek to avoid their elimination. Specifically, the Bank (i) 
normally declines to finance projects that will significantly damage non-replicable 
cultural property, and will assist only those projects that are sited or designed so as 
to prevent such damage; and (ii) will assist in the protection and enhancement of 
cultural properties encountered in Bank-financed projects, rather than leaving that 
protection to chance. The management of cultural property of a country is the 
responsibility of the government. The government’s attention should be drawn 
specifically to what is known about the cultural property aspects of the proposed 
project site and appropriate agencies, NGOs, or university departments should be 
consulted; if there are any questions concerning cultural property in the area, a brief 
reconnaissance survey should be undertaken in the field by a specialist. The 
proposed project will not fund sub-projects that will have negative impacts on 
cultural property.  
 
·
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37).
 For the life of any dam, the owner is responsible for 
ensuring that appropriate measures are taken and sufficient resources provided for 
the safety to the dam, irrespective of its funding sources or construction status. The 
Bank distinguishes between small and large dams. Small dams are normally less 
than 15 m in height; this category includes, for example, farm ponds, local silt 
retention dams, and low embankment tanks.  For small dams, generic dam safety 
measures designed by qualified engineers are usually adequate. This policy does not 
apply to the proposed project. 
 
·
Projects on International Waterways (O 7.50).
 The Bank recognizes that the 
cooperation and good will of riparians is essential for the efficient utilization and 
protection of international waterways and attaches great importance to riparians 
making appropriate agreements or arrangement for the entire waterway or any part 
thereof. Projects that trigger this policy include hydroelectric, irrigation, flood 
control, navigation, drainage, water and sewerage, industrial, and similar projects 
Page  41
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
40
that involve the use or potential pollution of international waterways. The proposed  
project did not triggered this policy 
 
·
Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)
.
Project in disputed areas may occur in the Bank 
and its member countries as well as between the borrower and one or more 
neighbouring countries. Any dispute over an area in which a proposed project is 
located requires formal procedures at the earliest possible stage. The Bank attempts 
to acquire assurance that it may proceed with a project in a disputed area if the 
governments concerned agree that, pending the settlement of the dispute, the project 
proposed can go forward without prejudice to the claims of the country having a 
dispute. This policy is not expected to be triggered by sub-projects. This policy is 
unlikely to be triggered by sub-projects to be funded by this project. 
 
Page  42
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
41
ANNEX 3: Draft EIA /ESIA Terms Of Reference 
 
Introduction and context 
This part will be completed in time and will include necessary information related to 
the context and methodology to carry out the study. 
 
Objectives of study 
This section will indicate (i) the objectives and the project activities; (ii) the activities 
that may cause environmental and social negative impacts and needing adequate 
mitigation measures. 
 
Tasks  
The
 
consultant should realize the following: 
·
Describe the biophysical characteristics of the environment where the project 
activities will be undertaken; and underline the main constraints that need to be 
taken into account at the field preparation, during the implementation and 
exploitation/maintenance of equipments.   
·
Assess the potential environmental and social impacts related to project activities 
and recommend adequate mitigation measures, including costs estimation.. 
·
Review political, legal and institutional framework, at national and international 
level, related to environmental, identify the constraints and suggest 
recommendations for reinforcement  
·
Identify responsibilities and actors for the implementation of proposed mitigation 
measures  
·
Assess the capacity available to implement the proposed mitigation measures, and 
suggest recommendation in terms of training and capacity building, and estimate 
their costs.   
·
Develop a Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for the project. The EMP 
should underline (i) the potential environmental and social impacts resulting from 
project activities (ii) the proposed mitigation measures; (iii) the institutional 
responsibilities for implementation; (iv) the monitoring indicators; (v) the 
institutional responsibilities for monitoring and implementation of mitigation 
measures; (vi) the costs of activities; and (vii) the calendar of implementation.  
·
Public consultations.
 
The EIA/ESIA results and the proposed mitigation measures 
will be discussed with population, NGOs, local administration and other 
organisations mainly involved by the project activities. Recommendations from this 
public consultation will be include in the final EIA or ESIA report.  
 
Plan of the EIA report  
-
Cover page 
-
Table of contents 
-
List of acronyms 
-
Executive summary  
-
Introduction 
-
Description of project activities  
-
Description of environment in the project area  
-
Description  of political, legal and institutional framework 
Page  43
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
42
-
Description of methodology and techniques used in assessment and analyse of 
project impacts.  
-
Description of  environmental and social impacts for project activities 
-
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for the project  including the proposed 
mitigation measures; the institutional responsibilities for implementation; the 
monitoring indicators; the institutional responsibilities for monitoring and 
implementation of mitigation;  Summarized table for EMP  
-
Recommendations 
-
List of persons / institutions meet 
 
Duration of study  
The duration of study will be determined according to the type of activity 
 
Production of final report  
The consultant will produce the final report one (1) week after receiving comments 
from the World Bank, SEPAs/FMEH & UD (Impact Monitoring Unit) and the SPCU. 
The report will include all the comments from all.  
 
Supervision of study  
The consultancy will be supervised by the Environmental consultant attached to the 
SPCU. 
 
Page  44
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
43
ANNEX 4: Contract Provisions: Environmental and Social Impacts 
 
1.
General Provisions and Precautions
 
The contractor shall all necessary measure and precautions and otherwise ensures 
that the execution of the works and all associated operations on the work sites or off 
site are carried out in conformity with statutory and regulatory environmental 
requirement of Nigeria. The   contractor shall take all measures and precautions to 
avoid any nuisance or disturbance arising from the execution of the work. This 
shall, wherever possible, be achieved by suppression of the nuisance at source 
rather than abatement of the nuisance once generated. In the event of any soil or 
debris or silt from the work sites being deposited on any adjacent land, the 
contractor shall immediately remove all such spoil debris or silt and restore the 
affected area to its original state to the satisfaction of the responsible authorities. 
 
2.
Water Quality
 
The following conditions shall apply to avoid adverse impacts to water quality: 
 
·
The contractor shall prevent any interference with supply to, or 
abstraction from, water resources and the pollution of water resources 
(including underground percolating water) as a result of the execution of 
the works. 
·
The contractor shall not discharge or deposit any matter arising from the 
execution of the work into any waters except with the permission of the 
contractor and regulatory authorities concerned. 
·
The contractor shall at all times ensure that all existing stream courses 
and drains within and adjacent to the site are kept safe and free from any 
debris and any material arising from the works. 
·
The contractor shall protect all water courses, waterways, ditches, 
canals, drains, lakes and the like from pollution, silting, flooding or 
erosion as a result of the execution of the works. 
 
3. Air Quality 
 
The following conditions shall apply to avoid adverse impacts to air quality: 
 
·
Open burning   will be prohibited. 
·
Blasting (If any) will be carried out using small charges, and dust 
–
generating items will be conveyed under cover. 
·
In periods of high wind, dust- generating operations shall not be 
permitted   within 200 meters of residential areas having regard to the 
prevailing direction of the wind. 
·
Asphalts and hot- mix plants sites shall not be established prior to the 
approval of the contractor and shall be located at least 500 meters away 
from the nearest sensitive receptor(e.g. ,schools and hospitals).Operators 
will be required to install emission controls. 
Page  45
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
44
·
Water sprays shall be used during the delivery and handling of materials 
when dust is likely to be created and to dampen stored materials during 
dry and windy weather. 
·
Stockpiles of materials shall be sited in sheltered areas or within 
hoarding, away from sensitive areas. Stockpiles of friable material shall 
be covered with tarpaulins. With application of sprayed water during dry 
and windy weather. Stockpiles of material or debris shall be dampened 
prior to their movement whenever warranted. 
·
Vehicle with an open load 
–
carrying area used for transporting 
potentially dust- producing material shall have proper fitting side and 
tailboards. Materials having the potential to produce dust shall not be 
loaded to a level higher than the side and tail boards, and shall be 
covered with a clean tarpaulin in good condition. The tarpaulin shall be 
properly secured and extend over the edges of the side and tailboards. 
·
In periods of adverse weather adverse impacts to adjacent residents or 
site employees during construction will be mitigated by either 
discontinuing until favourable conditions are restored, or, if warranted, 
sites may be watered to prevent dust generation, particularly at crushing 
plants. 
·
Machinery and equipment will be fitted with pollution control devices, 
which will be checked at regular intervals to ensure that they are in 
working order. Best available pollution control technologies will be used 
 
4. Protection of soils
 
Borrow pits. The following conditions shall apply to borrow pits: 
 
·
Borrow areas will be located outside the ROWs. 
·
Pit restoration will follow the completion of works in full compliance all 
applicable standards and specification. 
·
The excavation and restoration o f the borrow areas and their 
surroundings, in an environmentally sound manner to the satisfaction of 
the contractor is required before final acceptance and payment under the 
terms of contracts. 
·
Borrow pit areas will be graded to ensure drainage and visual 
uniformity, or to create permanent tanks\dams. 
·
Topsoil from borrow pit areas will be saved and reused in re-vegetating 
the pits to the satisfaction of the contractor. 
·
Additional borrow pits will not be opened without the restoration of 
those areas no longer in use.  
 
Quarries. To ensure adequate mitigation of potential adverse impacts, only 
licensed quarrying operations are to be used for material sources. If licensed 
quarries are not available the contractors may be made responsible for setting up 
their dedicated crusher plants at approved quarry sites. 
 
Erosion
.
To avoid potential adverse impacts due to erosion, the contractor shall: 
 
·
Line spillage ways with riprap to prevent undercutting. 
Page  46
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
45
·
Provide mitigation plantings and fencing where necessary to stabilize the 
soil and reduce erosion. 
·
Upgrade and adequately size, line and contour storm drainage to 
minimize erosion potential. 
·
To avoid erosion and gullying of road formations, the contractor should 
reduce his earthworks during the peak of rainy seasons, use gabions and 
miter drains and avoid angle termination at the intersections of cuts and 
fills. 
·
As noted in elsewhere in these specifications, ditches shall be designed 
for the toe of slopes in cut sections with gutters or drainage chutes being 
employed to carry water down slopes to prevent erosion. Interceptor 
ditches shall be designed and constructed near the top of the back of 
slopes or on benches in the cut slopes as well as when there is a slope on 
adjacent ground toward the fill. When 
 
the roadway has a steep longitudinal slope, a drain is to be designed and 
constructed at the down 
–
slope end of the cut to intercept longitudinal 
flow and carry it safely away from the fill slopes. 
 
5. 
Avoidance of Social Impacts
 
To avoid adverse social impacts, the Contractor shall: 
 
·
Coordinate all construction activities with neighboring land uses and 
respect the rights of local landowner. If located outside the ROW, 
written agreements with local landowners for temporary use of the 
property will be required and sites must be restored to a level acceptable 
to the owner within a predetermined time period. 
·
Maintain and cleanup campsites. 
·
Attend to health and safety of their worker by providing basic 
emergency health facilities for workers and incorporate programs aimed 
at the prevention of sexually transmitted diseases as a part of all 
construction employee orientation programs. 
Obtain approval of all diversions and accommodation of traffic. A stipulated by 
section- which states that “the Contractor shall provide the contractor with a 
written traffic control plan which is to include when and where flagmen shall be 
employed and when and where traffic cones or other devices such as barricades 
and \or lights will be used. Where 
 
·
….traffic diversions area planned for ….additional areas (will) be 
determined and the diversions clearly defined for travel.” 
·
Construct and maintain by – passes around bridges to be reconstructed 
until such time as the bridge is open for traffic. By- passes will be 
removed and the affected areas re-graded so as to blend in with the 
existing contour when the bridge is opened. 
 
6. Noise 
 
To avoid adverse impacts due to noise, the contractor shall: 
 
Page  47
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
46
·
Consider noise as an environmental constraint in his planning and 
execution of the works. 
·
Use equipment conforming to international standards and directives on 
noise and vibration emissions. 
·
Take all necessary measures to ensure that the operation of all 
mechanical equipment and construction processes on and off the site 
shall not cause any unnecessary or excessive noise, taking into account 
applicable environmental requirements. 
·
Maintain exhaust systems in good working order; properly design engine 
enclosures, use intake silencers where appropriate and regularly regular 
maintain noise 
–generating equipment. 
·
Use all necessary measures and shall maintain plant and silencing 
equipment in good condition so as to minimize the noise emission 
during construction works. 
·
Schedule operations to coincide with periods when people would least 
likely be affected and by the contractor having due regard for possible 
noise disturbance to the local residents or other activities. Construction 
activities will be strictly prohibited between 10PM and 6PM. 
·
Incorporate noise considerations in public notification of construction 
operations and specify methods to handle complaints. Disposal sites and 
routes will be coordinated with local officials to avoid adverse traffic 
noise. 
 
7.
Protection of Historic and Cultural resources
 
To avoid potential adverse impacts to historic and cultural resources, the 
contractor shall; in the event of unanticipated discoveries of cultural or 
historic artifacts (movable or Immovable) in the course of the work, the 
sub-contractor shall take all necessary measures to protect the findings 
and shall notify the contractor and provincial- level representatives of 
the Archaeological committee under the ministry of Information and 
culture. If continuation of the work would endanger the finding, project 
work shall be suspended until a solution for preservation of the artifacts 
is agreed upon. 
 
8.
Protection of Utilities
 
To avoid potential adverse impacts to utilities, the Contractor shall: 
 
·
Ascertain and take into account in his method of working the presence of 
utility services on and in the vicinity of the site. 
·
Take into account in his programme the periods required to locate, 
access, protect, support and divert such services, including any periods 
of notice required to effect such work in consultation with authorities 
operating such services. 
·
Assume all responsibility to locate or to confirm the details and location 
of all utility services on or in the vicinity of the site. 
·
Exercise the greatest care at all times to avoid damage to or interference 
with services. 
Page  48
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
47
·
Assume responsibility for any damage and \or interference caused by 
him or his agents, directly or indirectly, arising from actions taken or a 
failure to take action, and for full restoration of the damage. 
 
9.
Waste Disposal and Hazardous materials
 
Water and waste products shall be collected, removed via suitable and 
properly designed temporary drainage systems and disposed of at a 
location and in a manner that will cause neither pollution nor nuisance. 
Insofar as possible, all temporary construction facilities will be located at 
least 50 metres away from a water course, stream or canal. 
 
The contractor shall not dispose of used pavement material on the road  or 
highway side, nor in water courses or wetlands. Such material shall be 
utilized or disposed of in places approved by the CSC. 
 
Whenever large amounts of asphaltic concrete are to be removed from a 
highway, the material should be reused or disposed of by burial to a 
minimum of one meter depth. 
The contractor shall not dispose of any surplus material on private land 
unless authorized by in writing by the owner(s), authenticated before a 
notary public, and with previous authorization of the CSC. 
 
10.
Environmental monitoring 
 
Monitoring or direct impact will be carried out by the CSC and will include, but 
not restricted to, the following concerns: 
·
Erosion along highway segments and borrow sites during and after 
construction; 
·
Silting and increased sediment loads to streams crossed by the highway 
·
Prevention of damage to undiscovered significant archeological or 
historical findings; 
·
Verification that proper waste disposal at construction sites and road 
camps is done; 
·
Assurance that construction sites and road camps are cleaned after 
construction and 
·
Inspection of vegetation covers (removal and re- growth) on the basis of 
field examinations. 
 
Page  49
Environmental and Social Management Framework for SGCBP  
 
Earthguards Limited 
48
 
