                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 33997

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (IDA-36100 FSLT-70990)

                                                  ON A

                                             LOAN/CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$3.2 MILLION
                       (US$0.96 MILLION LOAN & SDR1.9 MILLION CREDIT)

                                   TO THE COMMONWEALTH OF

                                               DOMINICA

                                                 FOR AN

                                 EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT




                                            November 8, 2005




Finance Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective September 15, 2005)

                             Currency Unit = Eastern Caribbean Dollar (EC)
                          (EC) Dollars 2.70 = US$ 1
                                     US$ 1 = Dollars (EC) 2.70

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 to December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CARICOM Caribbean Community
CCTV    Closed Circuit Television
CMU     Country Management Unit
DCA     Directorate of Civil Aviation
FMR     Financial Management Report
ERP     Emergency Recovery Project
EU      European Union
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICAO    International Civil Aviation Organization
IDA     International Development Association
IMO     International Maritime Organization
ISPS    International Ship and Port Security
OECS    Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
SOE     Statement of Expenditures
TSA     Transportation Security Agency




                            Vice President:   Pamela Cox
                          Country Director    Caroline D. Anstey
                            Sector Manager    John H. Stein
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Francis Ghesquiere

                                          DOMINICA
                                Emergency Recovery Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31

Project ID: P077680                                                  Project Name: Emergency Recovery Project
Team Leader: Francis Ghesquiere                                      TL Unit: LCSFU
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: November 8, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Emergency Recovery Project                               L/C/TF Number: IDA-36100; FSLT-70990
   Country/Department: DOMINICA                                                           Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Aviation (50%); Power (32%); Ports, waterways and shipping
                            (10%); Central government administration (8%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Other
                            financial and private sector development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/26/2001                                     Effective: 07/11/2002                07/11/2002
     Appraisal: 01/17/2002                                         MTR: 02/25/2004                  02/25/2004
      Approval: 03/07/2002                                      Closing: 06/30/2005                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF DOMINICA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND MINISTRY
                                           OF COMMUNICATIONS AND WORKS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Caroline D. Anstey                             Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:                 John Henry Stein                               Maria Emilia Freire
Team Leader at ICR:             Francis Ghesquiere                             Arnaud Guinard
ICR Primary Author:             Marc Forni


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

    The original objectives of the project were to: (i) help safeguard and maintain the productive
    capacity of Dominica's tourism sector, notably by securing the industry's energy needs in the
    aftermath of the September 11, 2001 events; (ii) enhance security at key airport and seaport
    facilities in line with international standards, with the aim of preventing further acts of
    terrorism and safeguarding the sub-region's image as a safe tourism destination; and, (iii)
    strengthen the country's institutional capacity to develop and implement security plans,
    procedures and measures as mandated by the international civil aviation and maritime
    transport regulatory agencies.

    The Dominica Emergency Recovery Project is part of a 5 country emergency recovery
    program. Other Organization of Eastern Caribbean States nations, including St. Vincent and
    the Grenadines, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia and Grenada took part in the program. Project
    documentation for the program comprises one Memorandum of the President and one
    Technical Annex (in accordance to BP/OP 8.50 procedures) for the five participating
    countries.

    Recognizing the limits of implementation capacity at the individual country level as well as the
    economies of scale from enhanced regional coordination, the Bank focuses lending efforts on
    selective interventions with strong regional synergies - while remaining cognizant of the need
    to address individual country's needs. By ensuring a common framework for project
    preparation across the OECS countries and delivery of training and technical assistance
    through sub-region-wide arrangements, the ERP helped promote greater sub-regional
    cooperation while making full use of country implementation capacity in project coordination
    units.

    The objectives of the project were stated clearly. They aimed to support the sub-region wide
    recovery program to reestablish and secure the productive capacity of the OECS countries'
    tourism sector in the aftermath of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the US. The
    objectives were responsive to the circumstances the borrower expected, based on limited
    previous knowledge of the types of impact that could result from such a terrorist event. The
    project was designed to support the overall CAS objectives of supporting poverty reduction
    and assisting human and institutional development. It supported the creation of conditions for
    more rapid recovery and medium-term growth potential in tourism by assisting directly in
    mitigating income vulnerability and insecurity, as well as developing institutional capacity to
    ensure greater security in the island's critical air and sea transport linkages.




                                                   - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:

    In February 2005, in response to a request from the Government, the project objective was
    amended as a result of a November 21, 2004 earthquake. This natural event caused a
    disruption in airport services as part of the runway was damaged and led to a temporary
    decline of tourism revenue. The earthquake caused economic, social and physical distress in
    the territory of the Borrower and as a result, the loan was amended, with an additional project
    component added. The objective of this component was to assist the Borrower in maintaining
    its productive assets in the wake of the November 2004 earthquake.


3.3 Original Components:

    The project consisted of the three components listed below:

    Critical Imports (US$1,000.000 or 27 percent of total project costs) to finance low sulfur
    diesel fuel for electricity generation, which was critical to the maintenance of economic
    activity in the tourism industry by ensuring that energy-intensive tourism facilities are kept
    operational during the recovery period.

    Airport and Seaport Security Enhancement (US$2,207,000 or 60 percent of total project
    costs): (a) civil works to upgrade perimeter fencing and roadway, and improve access to key
    facilities, (b) security equipment, including communication, passenger and luggage screening,
    identification (badge) and surveillance systems, and (c) institutional capacity building,
    including technical assistance and training to develop and implement security programs,
    emergency and contingency plans at airports and seaports.

    Implementation Support (US$485,000 or 13 percent of total project costs) to assist the
    borrower in meeting its project management obligations through the strengthening of an
    existing Project Coordination Unit (PCU).

    The original components were structured to meet the project objectives. The largest
    allocation of funds was made for enhancing security at airports and seaports which was a key
    focus of the project.

3.4 Revised Components:

    To address the need for maintaining operations of the Borrower's productive assets
    immediately after the late 2004 emergency, US$225,000 was reallocated to finance critical
    imports. To finance this component, funds were transferred from project savings. This was
    achieved because of the cancellation of civil works at the Melville Hall Airport, which was
    substantially scaled down (with funds moving into project savings) after an agreement was
    reached with the European Union to execute this activity.




                                                  - 3 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:

    Quality at entry is rated as satisfactory.

    The events of September 11 uniquely affected the OECS region in ways that could not be
    precisely determined immediately after the event. As a result, the objectives of the project
    were broadly defined and the components were structured to provide assistance in a flexible
    manner. In this manner, the project could evolve to address the changing security
    requirements.

    As very limited expertise on transportation security existed within the Bank, the project design
    relied heavily on a detailed assessment carried out by a renowned consulting firm specialized
    in air and maritime transport security issues. Key to project success was the establishment of
    a cohesive capacity building program at the sub-regional level. The OECS Directorate of
    Civil Aviation (DCA) was therefore involved early on in the project - recognizing that no
    similar institutional set up existed for the maritime transport sector.

    During project preparation, the option of hiring a procurement agent to handle procurement
    of security equipment on behalf of all islands was considered to facilitate standardization of
    specifications, packaging and procurement of equipment. In the end, the project relied on
    strengthening an existing Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to manage procurement, in line
    with the Borrower's desire to build on existing institutional capacity.

    A QAG panel reviewed the quality at entry on June 6, 2002 and found it to be satisfactory.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

    Overall, the outcome of the project is rated satisfactory.

    a. The first objective, safeguarding and maintaining the productive capacity of the country's
    tourism sector, was fully met through the disbursement of critical imports (fuel oil for energy
    needs) immediately after the loan and credit became effective. This helped Dominica meet its
    tourism industry's energy needs in the aftermath of the September 11th events and subsequent
    loss of tourism revenues.

    b. The second objective, enhancing security at key airport and seaport facilities in line with
    international standards, was mostly met for seaports but only partially met for airports as
    most civil works at Melville Hall Airport could not be implemented. During the project, it
    was agreed that an airport expansion project, funded by the EU, would carry out the work not
    executed under the Bank project. Since EU funds are grant monies, whereas Bank funds must
    be repaid, it was in the Borrower's interest to pursue this strategy.




                                                  - 4 -

    The bulk of the security equipment has been installed and is in use at all port facilities.
    Security equipment at airports is only partly in use pending completion of the EU funded
    project mentioned above. At project completion, airport certification of Melville Hall by the
    Directorate of Civil Aviation (DCA) remained uncertain. The port of Roseau has been
    International Ship and Port Security (ISPS) certified and seaport security in Dominica has
    substantially improved.

     c. The third objective, strengthening the country's institutional capacity was fully met with
     all training activities successfully completed, regulatory studies prepared for Government's
     approval and enactment of related legislation. In addition, an airport safety management
     study, which was not initially included under the project, has been prepared.

     d. The revised objective, to assist the Borrower in maintaining its productive assets in the
     wake of the November 2004 earthquake, was fully met through the disbursement of critical
     imports (fuel oil for energy needs).


4.2 Outputs by components:

    A. Critical Imports

    The critical imports component is rated as highly satisfactory.

    The financing and disbursement of critical imports (fuel oil for energy needs) was made
    immediately after the loan and credit became effective. This helped Dominica meet its tourism
    industry's energy needs in the aftermath of the September 11th events and subsequent loss of
    tourism revenues.

    B. Security Enhancement at Ports and Airports

    The security enhancement component is rated satisfactory.

    Physical Improvements:

    The replacement of the fencing and the construction of a new perimeter road at the Melville
    Hall Airport were long delayed and could not be implemented as originally planned. In view
    of the uncertainty and lack of clear decision-making surrounding the proposed Melville Hall
    Air Access Improvement Project funded by the EU, this activity was cancelled towards the
    end of the project. The Government decided to transfer the works from the Bank project to
    the EU project. The first phase of the EU Airport Expansion construction is now underway
    and final completion is expected by December 2007.

    The perimeter fencing at Canefield airport has been replaced in line with International Civil
    Aviation Organization (ICAO) standards. A baggage screening enclosure has also been
    constructed to improve manual screening of checked baggage at the airport. With savings
    generated from the cancellation of civil works at the Melville Hall Airport, the Canefield


                                                 - 5 -

airstrip runway has been rehabilitated after damages caused by flood water resulting from
heavy rain in September 2004.

Security Equipment:

The bulk of the equipment originally included in the project has been procured, installed and
are in use at all port facilities. Some airport security equipment, though already procured, has
yet to be installed and put in use. Its installation is pending the completion of the EU-funded
Airport Expansion Project. With project savings, some additional communication and
transport equipment, not envisioned to be within the scope of the original project, has been
purchased.

All security enhancement equipment purchased under the project can be found under the
Output Indicators of Annex 1. With the exception of the security sniffers and Closed Circuit
Television (CCTV) at the Melville Hall Airport, all equipment was purchased and is in use
(other than security screening equipment at Melville Hall, which will be installed under the EU
Airport Expansion Project). Sniffers were canceled due to their high price and low level of
reliability, while CCTV was canceled because it will be installed under the EU project. With
savings generated from the cancellation of these activities, as well as civil works at Melville
Hall, additional handheld communication equipment was purchased, along with 6 golf
cart-type security vehicles that are in use at Woodbridge Bay Seaport and Melville Hall
Airport. Finally, an additional patrol vessel was purchased with one stationed at the container
terminal and the other at the ferry terminal.

Institutional Capacity Building:

To ensure a coherent approach and consistency of programs, this component was
implemented by the DCA on behalf of all participating countries. All modules for executive
and operational training have been successfully completed with three executives each from the
Port and the Airport benefiting from this program. Train-the-trainer courses were held in
December 2003 in Antigua, with two candidates from Dominica having passed with
distinction. An Aviation Security Training was held in March 2004 in Dominica. Of the 24
participants, 48 percent passed with distinction, 20 percent passed to completion and 32
percent did not complete the course. At the same time, 49 participants also attended a
Maritime Security Program, all of whom passed the course.

A comprehensive Regulatory Review for Enhanced Security covering both the civil aviation
and maritime sectors in Dominica has been completed. This has helped the authorities take a
full account of the ICAO and International Maritime Organization (IMO) requirements and
identify potential deficiencies and areas for improvement. A draft National Transportation
Security Plan has also been developed for Dominica, as well as a Port Security Plan. Both
plans have been reviewed by the respective competent authorities and are awaiting legislative
approval.

Following the mid-term in-depth technical review, the Government agreed to use part of the



                                               - 6 -

    project savings to finance a safety management study for the airports. This additional study
    has recently been completed and is being reviewed by the relevant authorities.

    C. Project Management

    The project management component is rated satisfactory.

    The PCU was well staffed with a Project Coordinator, a Project Accountant, an
    Administrative Assistant, and an Administrative Clerk. Some office equipment and furniture
    was provided to facilitate the operations of the PCU.

    An independent auditor was engaged for the duration of the project. Financial reporting was
    of good quality and all audit reports were submitted on time.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:


    It was not possible to calculate economic rates of return for this type of project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:


    It was not possible to calculate financial rates of return for this type of project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

    Since 2002, tourist arrivals, particularly cruises, have gradually picked up in Dominica.
    Greater stability (no major terrorist attack in the USA since the September 11th events) and
    the diversion of tourism to destinations closer to the USA (i.e. the Caribbean) because of the
    Iraq war may well explain this trend. In any event, improved confidence in the security at the
    country's key airport and seaport facilities brought in by the project is an important
    contributing factor to this positive development.

    At project completion, the Melville Hall and Canefield airports are rated as facilities with
    improved security and controls. The airport security force of forty officers is trained by two
    ICAO certified trainers. Though Dominica is still not yet a member of ICAO, the Government
    is committed to accelerate the implementation of the Melville Hall extension project and
    meeting security requirements in line with ICAO standards. The airport authorities have
    gradually developed a more proactive agenda towards security. Three out of four air carriers
    surveyed by the DCA have reported improvement or significant improvement in security at the
    airports, though one has rated Melville Hall facility's security as having declined.

    With regard to Dominica's seaports, the improvement in security is substantial. The port now
    has a security force of sixty officers led by a highly security-aware management and having
    full police authority within the port's facilities. The Port Authority has developed a Port
    Security Plan and received its ISPS certification. The authorities remain fully committed to
    meeting regulatory requirements and are seeking further assistance to this end.



                                                   - 7 -

    At the broader sub-regional level, several positive developments are also worth noting in the
    context of the implementation of this project. The DCA has recently become responsible for
    oversight of the OECS countries as the Civil Aviation Authority. A new Civil Aviation Act
    has been sent out to all OECS countries. The concept of a harmonized aviation regulatory
    framework for all OECS countries has also been endorsed by ICAO. Dominica faces
    difficulties in passing the new Civil Aviation Act and adopting a new aviation code as it is not
    yet a member of ICAO. All other OECS countries have now adopted a new aviation code.
    The DCA, as the responsible oversight authority, is supporting its member countries for the
    drafting of the necessary regulatory framework. Finally, the DCA is considering having a
    regional agency similar to the Transportation Security Agency (TSA) in the US. This future
    objective is being accommodated in the proposed regional security framework.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

    The regulatory environment pertaining to air and maritime transport security changed rapidly
    in the months following the September 11th events. To date, it continues to evolve
    particularly in the maritime transport sector. International regulations underwent continuous
    revisions making it mandatory for countries to implement new standards as they emerged. In
    some cases, revised or new standards resulted in new demands and/or cost increases which
    were not originally forecasted under the project. This situation made it more difficult to
    implement some of the project components.

    As Antigua & Barbuda did not mobilize rapidly counterpart funds for the institutional capacity
    component under the responsibility of the DCA, the sub-regional training program and
    regulatory reviews were initially delayed.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

    The Government's decision to cancel the implementation of the civil works at Melville Hall
    Airport came very late. In addition, more rapid review and/or approval of documents by the
    authorities would have resulted in a smoother implementation of the project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

    The implementing units, i.e. the Airport Services Division and the Dominica Port Authority,
    did not always provide timely input or feedback on technical specifications and bidding
    documents, resulting in some delays in procurement.

5.4 Costs and financing:

    There were some variations of costs compared to original estimates. The cost of some
    physical improvements and security equipment was sometimes overestimated at the time of
    appraisal as it proved difficult to evaluate the cost of some items immediately after the
    September 11th events given the sudden high demand on them. Project savings were used to



                                                     - 8 -

    either finance additional security equipment required (e.g. communication equipment, patrol
    vehicles and boat) or undertake works because of unforeseen events (e.g. Canefield runway
    rehabilitation).

    At project completion, total project costs amount to US$3.61 million compared to US$3.9
    million at appraisal. Final Bank financing is US$3.17 million, very close to the planned
    US$3.2 million.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

    Project Sustainability is rated likely.

    Although the Government is committed to ensure that transport security remains a high
    priority, its ability to meet this objective is constrained by limited financial resources. As a
    result, the Airport Services Division, which is a unit of the Ministry of Communications,
    Works and Housing, is likely to face difficulties in obtaining the necessary resources to
    maintain and operate the new infrastructure and security equipment. The port authority, a
    statutory corporation of the Government, has more financial autonomy and has made
    sufficient provision for continued budgetary and institutional support to maintain its
    investments. Sustainability of infrastructure and security equipment is likely for the seaports
    but more at risk for the airports.

    Mitigating risks posed to airports sustainability is the fact that ICAO certification will soon be
    necessary to receive international flights. To meet this certification, passage of the Civil
    Aviation Act and adoption of the Civil Aviation Code, both of which are currently stalled,
    must be enacted. Annual requirements to comply with ICAO standards, in order to maintain
    international flights, should provide sufficient pressure on the Government to ensure
    consistent compliance.

    Training provided to port and airport personnel has been quite successful and the proposed
    regulatory framework has been well prepared, to the satisfaction of the authorities. As a
    result, sustainability of the institutional capacity is likely. The key challenge that Government
    and Security Authorities face is their ability to maintain a cadre of qualified staff to operate
    and update knowledge on security systems and evolving international regulations. Without
    sufficient resources and emphasis on maintaining an environment of security, security levels
    could return to the pre 9/11 environment. The need to pass annual ICAO audits should
    ensure that a security culture at the ports and airports is maintained.

    On balance, while overall sustainability is of concern, it is likely to be realized.




                                                    - 9 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

    All physical resources have been delivered to and /or installed at the respective entity. All
    security equipment contracts include a two-year warranty and the provision of adequate spare
    parts. Where appropriate, personnel have been trained in the use and maintenance of the
    equipment. Management and operational security personnel have also been trained in the
    discharge of their security duties, in line with emerging international standards and best
    practices relevant to their respective operations.

    In general, equipment has been put to use immediately on delivery and commissioning.
    Security personnel have been able to use the newly acquired knowledge and skills for the
    benefit of their respective entities and the country as a whole.

    Electronic screening of checked baggage is expected to be conducted at the Melville Hall
    Airport as soon as the construction of the extension to the terminal building is completed.
    Suitable accommodation to facilitate effective use and operation of the equipment has been
    provided for in the design of the extension works. Similarly, the Port Authority is currently
    finalizing the design of the extension works to be undertaken at the Roseau Ferry Terminal.
    The design makes provision for the accommodation of the checked baggage scanner and
    walkthrough metal detector to be installed at that facility. The checked baggage scanners for
    the Melville Hall Airport and the Roseau Ferry Terminal are currently stored at the respective
    entities.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

    Bank performance for lending is considered satisfactory, given the urgency and almost no
    previous experience with the issues at hand, including staffing constraints.

    Immediately after the September 11th events, the Bank was able to mobilize and coordinate
    specialized expertise to respond to a unique event which had unpredictable impacts. It also
    played a key role in coordinating the design of the recovery program in the OECS countries
    and mobilizing donor financing. The project was prepared and processed quickly. It was
    designed with a flexible structure and similar components as in neighboring islands to ensure a
    coherent approach at the sub regional level.

7.2 Supervision:

    Frequency and quality of supervision is rated satisfactory.

    Supervision was flexible and responsive to a changing environment and new institutional
    requirements. There were six supervision missions during the three year implementation
    period, including a mid-term and final review in February 2004 and May 2005, respectively.
    Most missions included strong procurement and disaster management skills. In addition, the


                                                  - 10 -

    Bank commissioned a mid-term and a final in depth technical review of the project by civil
    aviation and maritime experts. These independent reviews were extremely useful and helped
    implementing agencies address critical issues and adjust their program accordingly.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

    Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

    The Bank's response to an event which had unforeseeable impacts was timely, rapid and
    flexible throughout the project cycle. The Bank was also very responsive to take into account
    emerging needs in an evolving regulatory environment and to accommodate new emergency
    needs into the project when they occurred.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

    Borrower performance during preparation is rated satisfactory.

    Government recognized quickly the consequences of the September 11 events on its tourism
    sector in the sub-region and sought Bank assistance to mitigate potential negative impacts. It
    worked closely with the Bank during preparation to allow for a speedy approval of the
    project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

    On balance, Government implementation performance is rated marginally satisfactory.

    Government worked diligently to declare the loan and credit effective, and provided sufficient
    counterpart funding. However, a more rapid decision on the implementation arrangements for
    the civil works at Melville Hall Airport and better coordination between the implementation of
    this project and the proposed EU funded airport expansion project would have largely
    enhanced the overall outcome.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

    Throughout the project, the PCU performed its support and coordination role in a
    professional and satisfactory manner.

    Implementation of the physical improvement and security equipment component was mainly
    carried out by the Port Authority with adequate institutional support and the Airport Services
    Division with only limited resources, respectively. Faced with a rapidly evolving regulatory
    environment and difficulties in finalizing technical specifications of equipment, both entities
    did their best to provide sufficient technical inputs and management supervision skills for the
    implementation of their respective components.

    Implementation of the institutional capacity building component was the responsibility of the
    OECS Directorate of Civil Aviation (DCA) on behalf of the countries. Despite its limited


                                                 - 11 -

    human and financial resources, and having to deal with maritime security issues which were
    beyond the scope of its responsibilities, the DCA was always pro-active and performed well
    its coordination and support role for the implementation of the institutional capacity
    component.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

    Overall performance is rated satisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned

   1. The Bank is well positioned to respond to similar emergency events in the future. To
   effectively do so, the Bank must continue to mobilize expertise not only during the immediate
   response phase, but also throughout implementation. In-depth technical reviews during the
   project, by independent experts, have proven particularly useful to ensure successful and
   flexible implementation of such programs.

   2. There can be significant advantages to implementing programs for the OECS through a
   regional entity. By coordinating various aspects of implementation, such as institutional
   strengthening and the provision of training, the entity directly supports participating country's
   ability to address regional issues. Such an agency is not only well positioned to apply regional
   standards during implementation, but also, it can effectively set regional policy by channeling
   national differences into streamlined action. If appropriately conceived, the project can
   contribute to the strength and legitimacy of this agency.

   3. Regional procurement can bring important cost benefits. The participating governments
   would have greatly benefited by pooling procurement resources to purchase standardized
   equipment in bulk. In addition to obvious economies of scale resulting from simplified
   processes, larger orders and reduced shipping costs, the cost of executing procurement tasks
   can be shared among participating governments. Maintenance cost savings can also be enjoyed
   throughout the life of the goods, particularly if the equipment is of a technical nature.
   Expensive spare parts can be purchased in bulk and a single firm can be contracted to carry out
   required maintenance work in all participating countries, justifying a local presence.

   4. The Bank can play an active role to assist countries in meeting established and evolving
   regulatory standards. Though the Bank may not always have sufficient in-house expertise in
   meeting ever evolving international regulatory standards, it is often well positioned to
   effectively provide access to global experience and knowledge to assist countries in meeting
   such standards.




                                                 - 12 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:



1.      Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

1.1.     Original Objective:
The original objective of the project was to assist the Government of the Commonwealth of
Dominica to carry out its emergency recovery programmes. This programme aimed to safeguard
and maintain the productive capacity of its tourism sector, and other related sectors in the
aftermath of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States of America, through,
among other things:

(a)     expediting tourism promotion through a regional advertising campaign;
(b)     maintaining critical fuel imports necessary to keep tourism related facilities operational
        during the recovery period;
(c)     enhancing security at key airport and seaport facilities in its territories, in line with
        emerging international standards, with the aim of preventing further acts of terrorism and
        safeguarding the sub-regions image as a safe tourist destination;
(d)     strengthening its institutional capacity to adopt, develop and implement security plans,
        procedures and measures as mandated by international civil aviation and maritime
        transport regulatory agencies in collaboration with the other regional states; and
(e)     improving the administration of off-shore financial and business services.


1.2.      Revised Objective:
In February 2005, in response to a request from the Government of Dominica the objective of the
project was amended to incorporate a second objective. The amended project objectives are as
follows:

1.      To assist the Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica to carry out its emergency
recovery programmes. This programme aimed at safeguarding and maintaining the productive
capacity of its tourism sector, and other related sector in the aftermath of the September 11, 2001
terrorist attacks in the United States of America, through, among other things:

(a)     expediting tourism promotion through a regional advertising campaign;
(b)     maintaining critical fuel imports necessary to keep tourism related facilities operational
        during the recovery period;
(c)     enhancing security at key airport and seaport facilities in its territories, in line with
        emerging international standards, with the aim of preventing further acts of terrorism and
        safeguarding the sub-regions image as a safe tourist destination;
(d)     strengthening its institutional capacity to adopt, develop and implement security plans,
        procedures and measures as mandated by international civil aviation and maritime
        transport regulatory agencies in collaboration with the other regional states; and
(e)     improving the administration of off-shore financial and business services.



                                                 - 13 -

2.      Mitigating the adverse effect of the Emergency 2004 on the Borrower's economy,
including inter alia, maintaining the operations of the Borrower's productive assets.


1.3.     Quality at Entry
In this regard assessments were conducted in the OECS sub-region, by an independent security
consultant group, to determine not only the impacts of the events of September 11 on the
individual states, but also their individual and collective capacities to mitigate the effects, as well
the ability to prevent or reduce the likelihood of such acts of terrorism in the sub-region.

The results of the assessments determined that the individual states experienced varying degrees
of negative impacts, particularly in the tourism sector, which has been increasingly identified as
the viable alternative to vulnerable mono-crops and other declining economic sectors of the
respective territories.

It was also determined that the territories were generally not compliant with existing international
standards on Aviation and Maritime Security and that much needed to be done to bring them in
line with emerging standards in the aftermath of 9/11. In this respect it was also determined that
the institutional foundation needed to be put in place to facilitate such changes and to facilitate
and ensure sustainability.


2.       Achievement of Objective and Outputs


2.1.     Outcome/Achievement of Objective:
For the most part, it may be concluded that much was achieved, not only at the level of the
implementation agencies/beneficiary entities, but also at the national level. However, it may not
be concluded that the project's objectives as a whole were achieved completely, since the planned
replacement of perimeter fencing and the construction of the baggage screen enclosure at Melville
Hall Airport were not carried out by the ERP This occurred because the Air Access Improvement
Project financed with EU grant funds was underway and expected to address these activities.

Much security equipment was provided for the units, as well as the required training, to assist in
the enhancement of the delivery of services related aviation and maritime security. Civil works
were undertaken at Canefield Airport although it was not possible to undertake a major civil
works at Melville Hall. Nevertheless, sufficient activities were undertaken to justify a satisfactory
rating for the project regarding the achievement of the objectives and outputs.




                                                - 14 -

2.2.    Outputs by Components:

Part A: Critical Import

Soon after the effectiveness of the project, the appropriate documentation was provided and a
total of US$1,000,000 was disbursed to the Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica to
finance low-sulphur diesel fuel under the Critical Import facility.

Part B: Works and Equipment for Airport and Seaport Security Enhancement

1.      Civil Works

It was originally intended that the perimeter fencing at both the Melville Hall Airport and the
Canefield Airport would be replaced with ICAO compliant fencing. However, in view of the
ongoing Melville Hall Airport Air Access Improvement Project financed with European Union
grant funds, this activity was postponed for implementation under the EU project. Consequently,
only the perimeter fencing at Canefield Airport was replaced under the project.

In light of the damage caused by flood waters at the Canefield Airport runway, resulting from
heavy rains experienced in September, 2004, the runway was rehabilitated under the ERP.
Additional work at Canefield Airport planned and completed under the ERP included baggage
screening enclosure constructed at the Canefield Airport to facilitate manual screening of checked
baggage.

2.      Goods and Services

Security equipment was provided for use by security personnel at the Airports and Ports so as to
assist in the delivery of enhanced security services at the respective units. This equipment
includes:

(a)     Two (2) Carry-on Baggage Scanners ­ one each for Canefield and Melville Hall Airport;
(b)     Two (2) Checked Baggage Scanners ­ one each for the Melville Hall and the Roseau
        Ferry Terminal;
(c)     Three (3) Walk-through Metal Detectors ­ one each for the Canefield and Melville Hall
        Airport, and the Roseau Ferry Terminal;
(d)     Three (3) Security Patrol Vehicles ­ one each for the Canefield and Melville Hall Airports
        and Woodbridge Bay Seaport;
(e)     Two (2) Security Patrol Vessels ­ one each for the Woodbridge Bay Seaport and the
        Portsmouth Harbour;
(f)     Six (6) Security Golf Cart-Type Security Vehicles ­ four (4) for the Woodbridge Bay
        Seaport and two (2) for the Melville Hall Airport.
(g)     Ten (10) Handheld Metal Detectors ­ five (5) each for Canefield and Melville Hall
        Airports;
(h)     A case of handheld radios for use by security personnel at the Port and Airports;



                                                - 15 -

(i)     Two (2) ID Badging Systems ­ one each for the Port and Airports;
(j)     Acquisition and installation of Closed Circuit Television System for the Port facilities at
        the Roseau Cruise Ship Berth, Roseau Ferry Terminal, Woodbridge Bay Seaport,
        Portsmouth Cruise Ship Berth and the Dominica Coast Guard Base.


Part C: Technical Assistance and Training for Airport and Seaport Security
        Enhancement

Through a Regional Agreement and Sub-agreement, a consulting firm was engaged to provide the
following services to OECS member states:

(a)     Training to security personnel at the Ports and Airports and;
(b)     Undertake a study and review of the institutional and regulatory regime in the OECS.

A total of Seventy-three (73) Security Officers were trained, forty-nine (49) from the Port and
twenty-four (24) from the Airport. In addition three executives each from the Port and Airport
benefited from an executive training course conducted by the consultant. Furthermore, two
training officers from the Dominica Police Force benefited from Aviation and Maritime Trainers'
Course.

The Consultant also provided reports of the review of the regulatory and institutional regime on
the island. A complete Security Management System was also prepared for implementation at
local airports, as well as a set of draft Aviation Security Regulations for adoption by Government.


Part D: Implementation Support

1.      Project Management Unit (PCU)
The project was well staffed with a Project Coordinator, Project Accountant, an Administrative
Assistant and one Administrative Clerk. Some office equipment and furniture was provided to
facilitate the operations of the Project Coordination Unit.

2.      Technical and Financial Audit
An Auditing firm was engaged to provide Financial Auditing services for the duration of the
project.

3.      Design and Supervision of Works, and Installation of Equipment
A Consulting firm was also engaged to provide design and supervision services of the civil works
undertaken during the project. Contracts with suppliers of security equipment also included
installation of such equipment where appropriate.


2.3      Institutional Development Impact:
The PCU was established during the implementation of the previous World Bank financed
Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Programme (ERDMP).                     Therefore, by the
effective date of the project the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was already established with


                                                  - 16 -

staff that possessed the necessary academic qualifications and the relevant experience in the
implementation and coordination of World Bank financed projects.                   These include the
Coordinator, Accountant and the Administrative Clerk and only an Administrative Assistant had
to be recruited during the project to provide the required technical support.


3.      Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome


3.1.    Factors Outside the Control of Government or Implementing Agency:
The regulatory environment was changing rapidly in the months following the September 11,
2001 incident in the United States of America. The international standards were undergoing
continuous revision making it mandatory for states to implement new standards. In many cases
standards evolved after the January 2002 appraisal mission. As a result, in many cases, the
revised standards resulted in increased costs which were not originally provided for under the
project. This situation made it difficult, if not impossible, to implement some of the components
to adhere to evolving standards.

3.2.    Factors Generally Subject to Government Control:
There was an inherent delay in implementation caused by the unnecessary, sometimes significant
delays in the provision of clearance by the relevant authorities, to proceed on key activities of the
project.

3.3.    Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control:
The implementing Units (Beneficiary Activities), including the Airport Services Division and the
Dominica Port Authority were required to provide specifications for equipment to be installed.
Moreover, they were responsible for reviewing documents/reports provided by consultants for
services related to their respective entities, prior to official acceptance. In most cases delays were
experienced in the provision of feedback by these entities resulting in the ultimate delay in their
completion.

3.4.    Costs and Financing:
The overall project was originally estimated to cost approximately US$3,900,000
(EC$10,484,000) with the funds to be provided as follows:



                          Source of Funds                                   Amount (US$)

 World Bank                                                                     3,170,000

 Government of Dominica                                                           700,000

 Total                                                                          3,900,000




                                                  - 17 -

In February 2005, an amendment was made to the Loan Agreement which resulted in revised
estimates as follows:



                         Source of Funds                                Amount (US$)

World Bank                                                                 3,170,000

Government of Dominica                                                       440,000

Total                                                                      3,610,000



The funds provided thus were utilized with minor changes in the allocation to the various
components.


4.      Sustainability

4.1.    Rationale for Sustainability Rating:
The two main beneficiaries of the Project were the Dominica Airport Services Division and the
Dominica Port Authority. The Airport Services Division includes Canefield Airport and Melville
Hall Airport while Port facilities include the Roseau Cruise Ship Berth, Roseau Ferry Terminal,
Woodbridge Bay Seaport, and Portsmouth Cruise Ship Berth. The Dominica Coast Guard Base
also benefited from some of the resources, although to a lesser extent.
The Airport Services Division is a unit of the Ministry of Communications Works and Housing, a
centrally controlled entity of the Government while the Dominica Port Authority is a Statutory
Corporation of the Government.          The distinction is important as it has implications for
sustainability on completion of the Project.

As both aviation and maritime continue to receive increased security attention globally, it is
imperative that mechanisms be put in place to ensure sustainability of resources provided under
the Project.   Thus, a major challenge for the Airport Services Division is the provision of
resources, on a continuous basis to maintain, complement and improve on those already received
from the ERP. Given the limited financial resources of Government, a strong case has to be put
forward to ensure the Airport and Aviation Security remains high on the priority list of
Government so that budgetary provisions may be made annually to adequately address the area of
airport and aviation security on the Island.

Although the Port Authority is a Statutory Body, the issue of sustainability beyond the duration of
the Project is of equal importance for the Port. Thus, annual budgetary provisions will have to be
made by management of the Dominica Port Authority for not only the maintenance of resources
provided under the ERP, but also to ensure that mechanisms are in place to receive regular
updates of relevant international standards and examples of best practice as they emerge.


                                                - 18 -

It is of critical importance that these provisions for sustainability be made to ensure that the
objectives of the ERP are met well beyond the duration of the Project, thus continuing to
contribute to providing an enabling environment for sustained economic activity in the tourism
and other related sectors.

4.2.    Transition Arrangement to Regular Operations:
All physical resources were delivered to, and/or installed at the respective entity. Where
appropriate, personnel were trained in the use and maintenance of the equipment. Moreover,
management and operational security personnel were also trained in the proper discharge of the
security duties, in line with the emerging international standards and best practices relevant to
their respective operations.

Management of both the Airport and the Port have reported improvement in the general attitude,
knowledge and skill of the security personnel, evident in the way officers discharge their duties
following the training courses provided under the project.

For the most part, equipment was put to immediate use on delivery and commissioning and
security personnel were able to use the newly acquired knowledge and skills for the benefit of
their respective entities and the country as a whole.

Electronic screening of checked baggage is expected to be conducted at the Melville Hall Airport
as soon as the construction of the extension to the Terminal Building, financed under the EU
Project, is completed. Suitable housing to facilitate effective use and operation of the equipment
has been provided for in the design of the extension works. Similarly, the Port Authority is
currently finalising the design of extension works to be undertaken at the Roseau Ferry Terminal
where the newly acquired checked baggage scanner and walkthrough metal detector will be
installed. The extension works at the Ferry Terminal is expected to be undertaken and completed
before the end of December 2005.

The Checked baggage scanners provided to the Melville Hall Airport and the Roseau Ferry
Terminal, as well as a walkthrough metal detector for the Roseau Ferry Terminal, are currently
stored at the respective entities for installation as indicated above.

Regarding office equipment and other supplies used by the PCU to implement ERP, unlike
ERDMP, where the equipment was to revert to the Office of Disaster Management, in this case,
PCU items financed under ERP were to be transferred to Airport Services Division.




                                                   - 19 -

5.     Bank /Borrower Performance

Bank

5.1.   Lending:
Having identified the programme as one of an emergency nature, the process for providing the
required funding was expedited by the Bank to encourage early and urgent implementation.
However, in its haste to expedite the whole process from assessment, through appraisal to
approval, a number of relevant areas requiring attention may have been overlooked, thus resulting
in inadequate provisions in the Project for important areas of concern. Nonetheless, the Bank's
lending performance may be noted as satisfactorily.

5.2.   Supervision:
Since the PCU was staffed with experienced personnel, and fulfilled Bank personnel requirements,
(financial management and procurement), the mechanisms were in place to receive assistance from
the Bank as and when required. Supervision missions were conducted as deemed necessary to
provide additional support and guidance and to assist Government in the decision making process
relevant to the Project.

Bank staff was ever ready and available to provide assistance and guidance on project related
matters. The Bank performed satisfactorily in that regard.

5.3.   Overall Bank Performance
Overall, the Bank seemed ever willing to accommodate Government on project implementation
matters, to the extent that Bank guidelines and procedures were not compromised. The Loan
Agreement was amended to accommodate changing circumstances of Government and facilitate
otherwise ineligible expenditure. Thus, the Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower

5.4.   Preparation:
Given the manner in which the Project was conceptualised, Government - particularly the
beneficiary agencies - had very little time to prepare and undertake a comprehensive assessment of
the requirements relevant to the project. This resulted in numerous omissions and/or oversight of
very important items which should have been included in for funding under the Project.
Moreover, the situation did not allow sufficient time for the beneficiary agencies to acquire a clear
understanding of the scope of the Project. In view of the circumstances, the borrower's
performance may be rated as marginally satisfactory.

5.5.   Government Implementation Performance:
The implementation procedures required that Government's approval be sought at every stage
and on every implementation activity. While it may have been well intended, many delays of
inordinate length were experienced in receiving the required response from the Permanent
Secretary. In many cases delays were experienced on very simple matters that did not require any
further consultation or directive and/or advice from any other authority resulting in significant
setbacks and consequently, increased cost to the Project. There seemed to have be a lack of



                                                 - 20 -

appreciation on the part of key Government personnel regarding the objectives of the project and
the key factors impinging on the successful achieving thereof.               Thus the Government's
performance may be rated as marginally satisfactory.

Implementing Agency:
Although the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) shouldered the responsibility of coordination and
implementation, continuous collaboration was maintained with the beneficiary agencies, namely
the Airport Services Division and the Dominica Port Authority. Both entities were proactive in
their approach to the Project and provided valuable information to assist in the successful
implementation of the various activities undertaken under the Project. For the most part, their
enthusiasm regarding implementation was constrained by the limited resources available from the
Project. Their performance, in collaboration with the PCU may be rated as satisfactory.

5.6.   Overall Borrower Performance:
Notwithstanding the efforts of the PCU, aided by the beneficiary agencies, numerous hiccups
were experienced on the project resulting in many unwarranted delays in implementation, which
ultimately resulted in increase costs and almost, if not definitely, negated the emergency nature of
the project.


6.     Lessons Learned


A number of lessons were learned from the implementation of the project, in terms of preparation,
coordination, implementation and general project management.

·      It is crucial to allow sufficient time, and provide adequate information on the scope of
       project, during the conceptualisation stage of any project;

·      The need to involve key stakeholders at the preparatory stage of the project, particularly
       at the assessment of requirement stage, cannot be overemphasised;

·      During the negotiation process with the Bank, it is advisable that some professional input
       from persons experienced in World Bank procedure and/or guidelines be enlisted to ensure
       that important applicable conditions are not overlooked in the legal agreement;

·      The issue of border security, particularly as it relates to airport, aviation, maritime and
       port security is continuously emerging with increased attention being focused thereon,
       globally. If developing states like Dominica and countries in the OECS sub-region are to
       survive in the increasingly hostile global marketplace, mechanisms must be put in place to
       keep up with those emerging standards. This will ensure that these states have some
       options to diversify their economies towards tourism and other related sectors and provide
       some level of sustainable economic activities in their respective territories.

·      Government must be committed to the achievement of project objectives and ensure that
       adequate realistic mechanisms are put in place to guarantee smooth and unhindered



                                                 - 21 -

        implementation of Projects. They must also ensure that adequate provisions are made for
        sustainability beyond completion of the Project

·       More resources are required to address the issues relating to border security and
        compliance with international standards related to Airport, Aviation, Maritime and Port
        Security. It is still uncertain as to whether or not the Airports and Seaport in Dominica
        will achieve the international certification hoped for by the completion of the Project.

·       Government needs to be more proactive in the enactment of laws and regulation related to
        Airport, Aviation, Port and Maritime Security.

·       Government needs to look closely at providing opportunities to retain local personnel
        trained in important areas likely to contribute meaningfully to the overall development
        process of the country.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

N/A




                                                  - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
 Not Available




Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
 Critical Import
· Low Sulphur Diesel Fuel                       100% Completed                                Purchased US$1 million of fuel
 Physical Improvement of Infrastructure
 ·Airport* Perimeter Fencing and Road           100% Completed at Canefield                   100% Completed
Improvements
 ·Construction of Baggage Screening            Activities cancelled at Mellville Hall due to  Canceled
Facilities at Airports*                        EU project overlap
 Security Equipment
· ID Badging and Tracking System*               2 Systems purchased                           100% Completed
 ·Checked Baggage Screening Systems**           2 Systems purchased                           100% Completed
· Passenger and Hand Baggage Screening          2 Systems purchased                           100% Completed
Systems for airports*
· Airport and Port Security Patrol Vehicles (3) 3 Patrol Vehicles purchased                   100% Completed
· Port Patrol Vessel
· Sniffers                                     2 Patrol Vessels purchased                     100% Completed
· Communications Equipment at airports and      Canceled                                      Canceled
port                                            Case of radios Purchased                      100% Completed
· CCTV systems at Airport and Roseau Port
                                                Installed for the Port and Cruise Ship        100% Completed**
                                               Facilities. Cancelled at airport due to EU
                                               project overlap
 Institutional Capacity Building
· Executive Training                            6 Port and Airport executives trained         100% Completed
 ·Security Operations Training                  73 Security Officer Trained                   100% Completed
· TA: Regulatory Review for Enhanced            TA executed                                   100% Completed
Security

1End of project
*Melville Hall International and Canefield International Airports
**Melville Hall International Airport




                                                                   - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
1. Critical Import
   a. Low sulfur diesel fuel                                 1.00            1.23              26
2. Security Enhancement at
   ports and airports
   a. Physical Improvement of                                1.03            0.64              26
      Infrastructure
   b. Security Equipment                                     0.85            1.20              22
   c.1. Institutional Capacity                               0.19            0.07               5
        Building (training)
   c.2. Institutional Capacity                               0.11            0.09               3
        Building (TA)
3. Project Management                                        0.49            0.38              13


Total Baseline Cost                                          3.67            3.61
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.23                               5
                          Total Project Costs                3.90            3.61
                   Total Financing Required                  3.90            3.61


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00            1.08         0.00         0.00          1.08
                                   (0.00)          (0.87)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.87)
2. Goods                            0.60            0.00         1.27         0.00          1.87
                                   (0.54)          (0.00)      (1.24)         (0.00)       (1.78)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         0.66         0.00          0.66
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.53)         (0.00)       (0.53)
4. Operating Expenses               0.00            0.00         0.03         0.00          0.03
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.02)         (0.00)       (0.02)
   Total                            0.60            1.08         1.96         0.00          3.64
                                   (0.54)          (0.87)      (1.79)         (0.00)       (3.20)




                                                - 24 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                     1
                                                           Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                 Other
   1. Works                                  0.00               0.56              0.00             0.00              0.56
                                            (0.00)             (0.46)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.46)
   2. Goods                                  0.52               0.00              1.88             0.00              2.40
                                            (0.46)             (0.00)            (1.81)            (0.00)           (2.27)
   3. Services                               0.00               0.00              0.63             0.00              0.63
                                            (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.43)            (0.00)           (0.43)
   4. Operating Expenses                     0.00               0.00              0.02             0.00              0.02
                                            (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.01)            (0.00)           (0.01)
        Total                                0.52               0.56              2.53             0.00              3.61
                                            (0.46)             (0.46)            (2.25)            (0.00)           (3.17)

      1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

      2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
        of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
        managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                        Percentage of Appraisal
         Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Critical Import
   a. Low sulfur diesel fuel     1.00         0.00         0.00        1.23         0.00       0.00       123.0     0.0       0.0
2. Security Enhancement
at Ports and Airports
   a. Physical                   0.83         0.21         0.00        0.51         0.13       0.00       61.4      61.9      0.0
      Improvement of
      Infrastructure
   b. Security                   0.76         0.09         0.00        1.07         0.12       0.00       140.8    133.3      0.0
        Equipment
   c.1. Institutional            0.16         0.04         0.00        0.05         0.01       0.00       31.3      25.0      0.0
        Capacity
        Building
        (training)
   c.2. Institutional            0.09         0.02         0.00        0.07         0.02       0.00       77.8     100.0      0.0
        Capacity
        Building (TA)
3. Project Management            0.27         0.22         0.00        0.24         0.14       0.00       88.9      63.6      0.0




                                                            - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

It was not possible to calculate eocnomic rates of return for this type of project




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/26/2001                7    LEAD SPECIALIST, TTL (1);
                                             LEAD ECONOMIST( 1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); ENGINEER
                                             (1); SECURITY SPECIALIST
                                             (2); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/17/2002                4    LEAD SPECIALIST, TTL
                                             (1); LEAD ECONOMIST
                                             ( 1); ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)


 Supervision

              10/12/2002                4    LEAD SPECIALIST, TTL (1);        S               S
                                             PROGRAM OFFICER (1);
                                             INTERN (1); ENGINEER (1)
              02/19/2003                2    TEAM LEADER, LEAD SPEC           S               S
                                             (1); ENGINEER,
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              10/03/2003                2    LEAD SPECIALIST, TTL (1);        S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              02/24/2004                3    LEAD SPECIALIST, TTL (1);        S               S
                                             OPERATIONS SPECIALIST
                                             (1); ENGINEER (1)
              03/14/2005                1    PROCUREMENT ANALYST              S               S
                                             (1)
              05/11/2005                2    AIR TRANSPORT SPECIALIST         S               S
                                             (1); TRANSPORT
                                             CONSULTANT (1)


 ICR
              05/24/2005                1     OPERATIONS                      S               S
                                              SPECIALIST (1)




                                              - 27 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               19                           53
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    13                           36
  Supervision                              24                           66
  ICR                                       3                            8
  Total                                    59                          163




                                            - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Memorandum and Recommendation of the President ­ Report No. P 7506-LAC
Technical Annex - Report No. T 7506-LAC
Consultant's final Assessment of Security Needs at Airports and Maritime Passenger Terminals in
OECS Countries in the Post September 11, 2001 Environment, February 15, 2002
Document Credit Agreement No. 36100-DOM, April 19, 2005
Document Loan Agreement No. 70990-DOM, April 19, 2005
Quality at Entry Review, June 6, 2005
Financial and Audit Reports 2003-2005
Mid Term Technical Review, February 25, 2004
Final Technical Review, May 24, 2005
Project Files




                                             - 31 -

- 32 -

