Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15474
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRIJCTURE REHABILITATION
AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1807-BEN)
March 28, 1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1 = CFA franc 301 (1987)            US$1 = CFA franc 283 (1991)
US$1 = CFA franc 298 (1988)            US$1 = CFA franc 265 (1992)
US$1 = CFA franc 336 (1989)            US$1 = CFA franc 280 (1993)
US$1 = CFA franc 285 (1990)
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF          - Banque Africaine de Developpement (African Development Bank)
BCEAO        - Banque Centrale des Etats de I'Afrique de l'Ouest (Central
Bank of Western African Countries)
BOAD         - Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement (West-African Development Bank)
CAA          - Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CCCE         - Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CFD          - Caisse Fran,aise de Developpement
DFR          - Direction du Fonds Routier (Road Fund)
DMTP         - Direction du Materiel des Travaux Publics (Directorate of Public Works
Equipment)
DROA         - Direction des Routes et Ouvrages d'Art (Roads Directorate in MET)
EDF          - Fonds Europeen de Developpement (European Development Fund)
FAC          - Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Aid Agency)
IDA          - International Development Agency
IDB          - Banque Islamique de Developpement (Islamic Development Bank)
IRR          - Internal Rate of Return
MET          - Ministere de l'Equipement et des Transports (Ministry of Equipment
and Transport)
OBEMAP    - Office Beninois des Manutentions Portuaires (Beninese Cargo
Handling Company)
OCBN         - Organisation Commune Benin-Niger (Benin-Niger Organization for
Transport Coordination) (manages the railway)
PAC          - Port Autonome de Cotonou (Cotonou Port Authority)
SMTP         - Service du Materiel des Travaux Publics (Equipment Maintenance
Division in DROA)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION
AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 1807-BEN
Table of Contents
Page Nos.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..............................................                        i-iv
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .......................................... . .   1
I. Introduction                                   . . . 1
II.  Project Objectives                              .         .          .         1
A.  Achievement of Objectives                     .3
B.  Economic Evaluation                        .6
III.   Implementation Experience and Results ...................... . .      .      7
A.  Implementation Record                       .7
B.     Major Factors Affecting the Project            .7
C.  Project's Sustainability                    .9
D.   Assessment of Bank's Performance                 .9
E.  Borrower's Performance                       .9
F.   Assessment of Project's Outcome .10
IV. Future Operations                               . . . 10
IV. Key Lessons Leared                     . . .11
PART II - STATISTICAL ANNEXES ..................................................           12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .13
Table 3 : Project Timetable .14
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .14
Table 5 :  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .15
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .15
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .16
Table 8A: Project Costs ..................................................         17
Table 8B: Project Financing ..................................................     17
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits ..................................................  18
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants in the Loan Agreement ............................................. 19
Table I 1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .............................................. 21
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..................................................  21
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ..................................................  22
APPENDIX:  BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ................................................. 23
I.     Port Component ..................................................           23
II.    Highway Component ..................................................        26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  l






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION
AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 1807-BEN
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Transport
Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project in Benin, for which Credit 1807-BEN in the amount of
US$20.4 million equivalent was approved on May 1987 and made effective in March 1988.
The Credit was closed on March 31, 1995 at the original closing date. Final
disbursement took place on August 2, 1995 at which time a balance of SDR365,3 12.57 was
canceled. In addition to the Government counterpart contribution and the financial
participation of the Road Fund and of the Autonomous Port Authority, cofinancing of the
project was provided by CFD (Caisse Franqaise de Developpement) and BOAD (Banque
Ouest Africaine de Developpement).
The ICR was prepared by Mrs. Suzanne Snell, Consultant, and Mr. Bemard
Peccoud, AF4IN, task manager for the project. It was reviewed by Mr. James 0. Wright,
Chief, AF4IN and Franz Kaps, Operations Advisor, AF4DR. Preparation of this ICR began
in April 1995 during the appraisal mission of a proposed Transport Sector Investment
Program. Since the appraisal mission aide-memoire summarizes the findings as regards to
the project, no specific ICR aide-memoire has been written. The ICR is based on material
provided in the project file and in the file of the Transport Sector Investment Program. The
Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the
project's implementation (Appendix) and by commenting on the draft ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION
AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 1807-BEN
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    This report evaluates the ninth project in the transport sector in Benin. The eight
preceding IDA credits totaled about US$ 83.4 million.
Project Objectives
2.    The project's overall objectives were to focus sector resources on maintenance of
infrastructure, assist Government in setting up a sector strategy to better channel domestic and
donor resources, and move the sector towards increased liberalization and deregulation,
thereby improving sector efficiency. Specific objectives were to: (a) protect past investments
in the port of Cotonou and in the road network by building maintenance capacity and
mobilizing funding; (b) increase port productivity; (c) increase the Ministry of Transport and
Public Works' capacity for road sector management; (d) increase private sector participation in
road maintenance; and (e) improve cost recovery and maintenance funding. During the course
of project implementation, some changes were made in the implementation arrangements, in
the selection of roads to be rehabilitated and in the rehabilitation of technical standards.
However, no formal re-appraisal was necessary.
3.    The project objectives were realistic and achievable. The only covenants not complied
with involved the level of resources for the Road Fund and the Port Authority's (PAC)
financial ratios. Privatization of some aspects of cargo handling was the only major policy
change included under the project which was not achieved. The only activity not implemented
was twinning for the Road Authority (DROA). Only one of three risks cited in the SAR
actually materialized: misallocation of road maintenance funds. The other two were
successfully avoided: (a) over-investment in the transport sector; and (b) continued low staff
productivity in road maintenance.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Achievement of Objectives: The Project achieved most of its objectives:
(a)   Sector Policy: Achievement was substantial. By project completion,
Government had developed a transport sector strategy. This program, prepared
through a consultative process with all domestic actors, gained the support of
all donors in a 1993 review.



-ii-
(b)   Institutional objectives: Achievement was substantial. Road maintenance
dramatically improved after the reorganization of the Ministry of Transport and
Public Works (MTPT). Costly excess road capacity was avoided, a well-
functioning maintenance programming and execution system was implemented
and unit costs of road maintenance were cut. The Port Authority reduced its
staff by half, privatized its non-strategic activities, and significantly improved
its operational efficiency. However, the state owned cargo handling company
(OBEMAP) remains a monopoly state entity operating inefficiently.
(c)   Financial Objectives: Achievement was partial. Governmnent was unable to
adequately fund road maintenance, though the resources of the Road Fund
more than doubled during the project period. The PAC did not reach its
financial targets, while outside financing has strengthened OBEMAP financial
situation.
(d)   Physical Objectives: Achievement was substantial. Through BOAD and IDA
funds, about 1500 km of roads were improved, compared to the 1000 km
originally envisaged, and all the paved roads included in the project financed by
the European Development Fund and the African Development Fund have been
rehabilitated. Emergency repairs of main roads were included in the program
after the 1991 flood. All port rehabilitation works were satisfactorily
completed and uncommitted funds were used to rehabilitate the western dike,
not included in the project.
5.    Economic Evaluation. Traffic levels on the paved roads which were rehabilitated
have been markedly higher than estimated. As a result, the IRRs for the two roads whose
construction costs had been estimated at appraisal were greater than those estimated. The IRR
for the Parakou-Malanville road was, however, lower than expected due to substantially higher
construction costs with traffic levels within the range estimated: IRR of about 50 percent vs
106 percent estimated. The IRRs for non-paved (earth) road rehabilitation works were
calculated for each road affected because of the change in technical standards. The IRR for the
whole program is 200 percent, far higher than the 42 percent estimated for the original
program. In the port, the physical benefits expected from the works have in all cases been
demonstrated or exceeded, leading to an IRR higher than expected.
6.    Sustainability. The physical achievements of the project in road rehabilitation and
maintenance are expected to be sustainable. The PAC has privatized port maintenance works
and is reserving the necessary funds to pay for it. The long-term sustainability of DROA's
achievements in road maintenance depends on the completion of measures initiated under the
project, including elimination of non-productive expenditures and improvement of resource
mobilization through generalization and privatization of road toll collection. This matter is
also addressed under the proposed Transport Sector Investment Program. There is full
ownership of the sector strategy prepared under the project with the full participation of all
actors, and that the project's institutional achievements are sustainable.



-iii-
7.    Major Factors Affecting the Project. Key factors which affected achievement in the
financial area were: (a) from 1987 to 1991, the collapse of the Beninese economy resulting in
the decrease of the Road Fund and PAC's resources; and the political and social turmoil which
delayed actual start of road works; (b) from 1991 to 1994, the dramatic decrease in fuel tax
collection due to widespread illegal importation of untaxed fuel from Nigeria, reducing the
Road Fund resources, and (c) after 1994, the devaluation of the CFA franc which resulted in
the increase of the cost of maintenance works and had a negative impact on the PAC's
financial situation. While the project was not extended, it could have closed about a year
ahead of schedule had it not been for Government's incapacity to correct serious shortcomings
in project accounting, starting at the end of 1993 which have, however, since been corrected.
8.    Cost and Delays. Despite a slow start, the project closed as expected. However, since
the road works actually started three years later than expected, the cost for rehabilitation
increased, mainly on the Parakou-Malanville paved road and on the unpaved road. MTPT
successfully coped with this situation by reducing the rehabilitation technical standards,
allowing it to increase the length of the road rehabilitated under the project. The devaluation in
January 1994 of the CFA franc had little impact on project works or assistance because 95
percent of project funds had been committed by that time.
9.    Bank's and Borrower's Performance. A major factor in project success was the high
quality of dialogue, based on consensus building between the IDA task managers, all
experienced road engineers, and Benin staff involved in project implementation. There was
also unusual continuity in task management throughout the project's lifetime. Progress in
implementing institutional reforms had been limited prior to the ministerial reorganization of
1992. Starting in early 1992, both the Transport Ministry and the PAC were able to move
forward rapidly with works, programming, studies and privatization activities which had
previously been stalled. The 1994 illness and death of the Minister of Public Works and
Transport left a vacuum in leadership for about a year, which had a negative impact on the
project management but little impact on the project objectives' outcome thanks to the
continued dedication of key technical staff.
10.   The assessment of outcome is rated satisfactory.
Future Operations and Lessons Learned
11.   A US$45 million Transport Sector Investment Prograrn, the first to be conceived in the
context of a full sector strategy, was prepared in parallel with the last six supervision missions
of the project. It comprises IDA's support to the Government's 1996-2000 Priority Investment
Program in the transport sector, and reflects IDA's comparative advantage in the roads and port
sub-sectors. Under this program, Government will finance routine maintenance. The
program's overall design reflects the specific lessons of the Transport Infrastructure
Rehabilitation Project, and the design of individual program components also reflects
subsector-specific implementation lessons.



-Iv-
12.   Key Lessons Learned
(a)   Usefulness of Sector Strategy Work. Participatory preparation of a full sector
strategy document has led to the implementation of reform measures, the
harmonization of donor activities, and the adoption of appropriate technical
standards.
(b)   Successful Privatization of Public Works. The approach of introducing
competition between existing force account teams and small local enterprises
provides a good transitional arrangement which enables the potential gains
from privatization to be clearly demonstrated without abolishing existing
agencies. In fact, the coexistence of both force account and private contractor
teams doing simultaneously the same kind of road maintenance works can give
both an incentive to optimize perfornance.
(c)   Designing Robust Project Objectives. The limited and straightforward nature
of the project's objectives proved sufficiently robust to withstand extended
political and economic turbulence, the birth of a democratically elected
government, privatization, natural disaster, substantial drop in domestic funds
for road maintenance, and devaluation. The project did not need to be
reappraised or restructured; technical standards for works were modified and
road sections were added or dropped, but the project objectives remained the
same.
(d)   Technical Assistance. The full-time permanent technical assistance
arrangements in the project were very expensive and did not work well. A
better arrangement has been worked out for the follow-up program, involving
short-term technical assistance to achieve specific objectives linked to
performance indicators. A combination of both local and international
consultants would offer the advantages of both costs reduction and local
accessibility.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION
AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 1807-BEN
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    Background. By 1983, the fourth year of the Cotonou Port Project and the second
year for the Fourth Highway Project, Government's and IDA's attention turned to routine
and periodic maintenance of the port and of the 7500 km paved, gravel, and earth road
network. A 1982 Bank Economic Mission had reported on the lack of a single coordinating
authority for the transport sector, the absence of a formal transport sector plan, the lack of
centralized accounts and incomplete accounting records, and a dearth of qualified,
motivated staff. There was a realization that the shortfall in benefits from port investment
was partly due to bottlenecks created by rigid state control of transit traffic.
2.    The underlying public policy issues hindering more efficient operation of the
transport sector were the slow pace of deregulation, continued public monopolies in freight
handling, and restricted access of the private sector to the port and to contracts for road
maintenance, which were mostly carried out under force account. The 1983 initiating
project brief states that the project is to be used as a vehicle to initiate sector deregulation,
and therefore project implementation should be subject to Government taking measures to
reduce the role of the rail company, and to improve transport investment and maintenance
management.
3.    Spanning the period of transformation through its completion in 1995, the history of
the project provides a stage for observing how the liberalization and privatization processes
in Benin indeed succeeded in reviving the economy. It also provides examples of how
deeply rooted some elements of the state system remain, such as the railroad and the cargo
handling agency, and how difficult it is for lucrative road user charges to be channeled into
road maintenance during periods of government financial difficulty, even with a good road
fund mechanism in place.
II.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.    The project's overall objectives were to focus the use of sector resources on
maintenance infrastructure, to assist Government in setting up a coherent sector strategy to
better channel domestic and donor resources, and move the sector towards increased
liberalization and deregulation, thereby improving sector efficiency and productivity. The



- 2 -
specific objectives were to: (a) protect past investments in the port of Cotonou through
urgent dredging and repairs, and in the road network by building maintenance capacity and
mobilizing funding; (b) increase port productivity by modernizing equipment maintenance
and improving management within the port authority (PAC) and the cargo handling agency
(OBEMAP); (c) increase the Infrastructure/Public Works/Transport Ministry's
(MET/MTPT) capacity for road sector management, study and project preparation, and staff
management and training; (d) increase private sector participation in road maintenance by
reducing force account works; and (e) improve cost recovery and maintenance funding.
5.    The project included three major components. The port rehabilitation component
included repair and rehabilitation of main infrastructure, and improvements to the PAC and
OBEMAP maintenance facilities. The highway component included resurfacing of about
440 km of paved roads, rehabilitation of regravelling of about 1010 km of heavily traveled
unpaved roads, new road maintenance equipment, spare parts, tools and repair, and
extension of road maintenance office (DROA) buildings. The institution building
component included technical assistance and training to the Ministry's department in
charge of sector policy formulation, to DROA and the Road Fund for reorganization of road
maintenance financing and operation, and to the PAC and OBEMAP for management,
maintenance and operations, and for a maintenance dredging study. The Credit Agreement
was amended in 1991 to finance emergency road repairs in Cotonou following the floods of
July 1991.
6.    Evaluation of Objectives and Risks. Project objectives were realistic and
achievable, especially given the requirement for a seven-year project implementation period
(regional disbursement profile). In fact, during early project preparation, the project period
had been set at four years, as a function of time required to carry out works. The only
covenants not complied with involved the level of resources for the Road Fund and the
PAC's financial ratios. Privatization of at least some aspects of cargo handling is the only
major policy change included in the project which continues to be resisted. The only
activity not implemented was twinning for DROA.
7.    The project never required reappraisal or formal restructuring. Project
implementation arrangements were modified only slightly for road maintenance. There
were ministerial reorganizations and renamings, and the Road Maintenance Office,
equipment office, and other units within the Ministry were also reorganized internally or
given new names, but the project implementing agencies remained essentially the same.
Action plans included in the SAR for the PAC, OBEMAP, the Ministry's studies office,
and the Road Maintenance Office were all revised in the course of project implementation.
The selection of road sections rehabilitated was also modified as a function of changing
network conditions and the need for emergency works following severe flooding in 1991,
but the criteria selection for funding remained the same, the nature of works and assistance
financed under the project corresponded to the project description and objectives.
8.    Only one of the three project risks listed in the SAR actually materialized, the
allocation of part of road maintenance funds to non-maintenance expenditures. The other



-3 -
two main risks mentioned were successfully avoided: over-investment in the transport
sector (through the preparation of investment plans and the sector strategy), and continued
low staff productivity in road maintenance (through a staff assessment, reduction in force,
and conversion of salaried workers to contract employees).
A.    Achievement of Objectives
9.    Earlier projects in the transport sector had been successful in showing good
economic rates of return, often higher than estimated at appraisal, good works execution
(feeder roads) and good institutional results (feeder roads, port project), but they had
achieved poor results in terms of infrastructure maintenance. This project succeeded where
earlier projects had failed, although with major delays due to factors beyond Government's
control. In fact, most of the project's objectives were achieved, but later than expected; still,
the project closed on time because of a conservatively long project period based on the
regional profile (seven years).
Sector Policy Objectives
10.   Overall Sector Management. Achievement in this area was substantial. Where no
overall policy or investment plan existed for the sector, by project completion Government
had developed a transport sector strategy in earnest. Investment plans discussed during
project preparation became the basis for preparing a comprehensive five-year rolling
priority sector investment program. This program, prepared through a consultative process
with all domestic actors, has gained the support of all donors, who reviewed it in 1993 and
are scheduled to review the revised program in 1996. It is a major achievement of the
project that the process of preparing the five-year rolling sector investment program
succeeded finally in marginalizing investment in the railroad, and in confirming direct and
open competition between rail and road transport.
11.   Road and Port Subsector. Achievement was substantial. Road maintenance
efficiency has dramatically improved. Government's road maintenance managers made the
right decisions on road paving priorities. By avoiding costly excess road capacity, they
implemented a well-functioning works programming and supervision operation and found
ways to cut unit costs of road maintenance. Roads in the priority network are now kept
open year-round despite the shortfall in funds. However, Government was unable to fully
fund road maintenance, and this issue has carried over into the follow-up Transport Sector
Project. The restructuring of the port authority has succeeded beyond appraisal estimates.
The PAC reduced its staff by half, privatized its non-strategic activities, and significantly
improved its operational efficiency. However, OBEMAP remains a-state entity with a
monopoly on freight handling and operates inefficiently, though technical assistance
provided by CFD under the project somewhat improved technical performance.



-4 -
Financial Objectives
12.   Road Subsector. Achievement was partial. Setting up of an efficient and
functional accounting system for the Road Fund was one of the few achievements of the
1987-90 period. However, collections of fuel tax and other road user charges during the
1985-92 period fell to a third of the levels required to fund road maintenance as agreed
upon at negotiations (CFA franc 3 billion). The increase in fuel tax intended to raise
resources to that level was implemented as planned in 1988 but brought in little extra funds,
because by that time demand had fallen off sharply. Once economic activity started to pick
up again in 1991, domestic fuel sales failed to rebound because of the availability on the
black market of fuel at a fraction of the cost from Nigeria. In addition, only 60 percent of
the resources actually were used for road maintenance. However, since programming and
execution continued to improve, the Ministry was able to maintain the rehabilitated
network. In 1995, the user charge collected at the port and available to the Road Fund was
substantially increased, allowing the Road Fund to cover 70 percent of the routine
maintenance needs compared to around 30 percent in 1991.
13.   Port Subsector. Achievement was partial. By mid-1991, the PAC's new
accounting system was being implemented, studies for improvement of its operations had
been carried out and recommendations were being acted upon. Following the de-facto
financial restructuring of the port authority in 1991, its financial situation improved
considerably between 1991 and 1993. It reduced its staff by about 50 percent and privatized
virtually all production activities. From 1987 to 1995, it enjoyed a 64 percent increase in
traffic volume and was successful in recovering bad debts of CFA franc 1.2 billion in 1994.
The PAC showed a surplus in 1994 for the first time in years. However, the devaluation of
January 1994 increased the PAC's debt, only partially offset by its net impact on revenue.
As a result, the PAC was not able to achieve the targeted ratio of working capital and
indebtedness. However, the PAC was still able, over the project period, to finance its
routine maintenance and to set up a three-year revolving fund to finance periodic dredging,
a major recurrent cost, rather than using external financing. The comprehensive financial
restructuring funded by CFD outside the project has comfortably strengthened OBEMAP's
financial situation.
Institutional Development Objectives
14.   Overall Sector Management. Achievement was substantial. By 1985 project
appraisal, responsibilities previously split between public works and transport ministries
had been merged into a single Ministry. This Ministry was reshaped in 1991, permitting
good technical and management staff to be brought in, most of whom remain. Under the
new Minister's leadership, things began to happen, starting with the internal reorganizations
of the port authority and of road maintenance and sector planning units within the Ministry.
The high level of commitment from 1992 was also reflected in the organization of a
seminar with the participation of users, private transport operators and donors to review the
results of the strategy study and discuss transport strategy issues. Government presented



the strategy which grew out of this consultative effort to the donors' round table meeting of
October 1993 and received support from donors.
15.   Road Subsector. Achievement was substantial. During project preparation, a
decree of August 1985 assigned DROA the responsibility for road maintenance and for
creating six provincial directorates. However, lack of accountability resulted in continued
poor performance in road maintenance. The 1992 ministerial reorganization eliminated the
authority of provincial offices for road maintenance. Provincial units began reporting
directly to DROA and 50 percent of the rehabilitation works were contracted out. From that
time, major improvements were made in road maintenance programming and execution.
During the project period, DROA implemented its new road maintenance system, privatized
execution of all cantonnage works and completed a plan for staff restructuring. DMTP
installed a commercial accounting system in 1992 and actually began functioning as an
equipment rental agency in 1993. Poor quality of technical assistance, due to frequent
changes in mission management, lack of involvement in daily operations and of access to
information prevailed until end-1991. Thereafter, the situation improved after an attempt to
convert the technical assistance contract with a firm to individual direct contracts with the
most effective team members and after the revision of terms of reference. The twinning
activities were not implemented because of the lack of experience in privatization of road
maintenance by the target pool and lack of funds under the disbursement category.
16.   Port Subsector. While traffic languished, the PAC had breathing space to revamp
its accounting system, start up a computerized management system (ESCALE), privatize
activities not directly linked to port operations, and complete project-supported
rehabilitation works. However, no sooner had its traffic levels recovered from the low
levels of the 1980s, the latent operational constraints of non-privatized activities became
obvious. The high breakdown rate of OBEMAP equipment, slow customs processing, a
complete lack of control over private port operators and the rapidly growing vehicle import
led to port congestion.
17.   The PAC benefited from the implementation of the port management computerized
system (ESCALE) in both resource collection and financial management. The influx of
private actors into the port following deregulation in 1990 and the rapid increase in port
traffic, especially in used vehicle imports, revealed weaknesses in the PAC's statutes which
had never mattered during the project preparation and the project's early years. Lacking
authority over licensing and sanction of private operators, the PAC was unable to prevent
the rise of chaos in port activities, despite the implementation of port management software
in 1992. Improving port operations will require improved performance of the Customs
administration and OBEMAP, and to establishing the PAC's authority firmly over port
operations. This is a matter which is being addressed in the context of the proposed
Transport Sector Investment Program.



-6 -
Physical Objectives
18.   Road Subsector. The achievement was substantial. About 1500 km of roads were
improved under BOAD and IDA's financing, compared to the 1000 km originally
envisaged, and all the paved roads included in the project under EDF's and FAD's
financing have been rehabilitated. As a result of the two-year delay in project start up, the
condition of almost all the unpaved network had become very poor by mid-1990. This,
together with the unexpected allocation of around US$3.0 million for emergency repair of
the main section of the priority network after the serious 1991 flood, prompted a shift to
lower technical standards in order to cover a greater portion of the network. Works focused
on spot improvements and spot regravelling, rather than on systematic on rehabilitation and
regravelling as provided for in the SAR. The rehabilitated unpaved roads have continued to
be maintained, despite the lower standards and the shortage of maintenance funds, because
of DROA's improved ability to stay on top of network conditions and to carry out routine
maintenance works.
19.   Port Subsector. Startup of port works was delayed less than for road works, and all
port rehabilitation works were satisfactorily completed by August 1991. Uncommitted
funds were reallocated in 1993 to rehabilitate the western dike, not originally included in
the project. These works were cofinanced by IDA, IDB, and CCCE/CFD.
B.    Economic Evaluation
20.   Road Component. Traffic levels on the two shorter paved roads which were
rehabilitated has been markedly higher than that estimated, while construction costs for both
roads were as estimated Thus the IRR on these two road improvements isgreater than the
one estimated which was 68 percent and 30 percent, respectively. The IRR for the Parakou-
Malanville road is, however, lower than expected due to substantially higher construction
costs with traffic levels within the range estimated: IRR of about 50 percent vs 106 percent
estimated. IRR for non-paved (earth) road rehabilitation works were calculated for each
road affected because of the change in technical standards. The IRR for the whole program
is 200 percent, far higher than the 42 percent estimated for the original program. This is due
to the fact that spot improvement works are much less costly than full rehabilitation but
yield very high benefits, since the situation without project results in traffic interruption.
IRR for individual roads treated range from 502 percent for roads with very low
rehabilitation costs, to 6 percent, with a single road falling below the 12 percent mark.
21.   Port Component. The physical benefits expected from ports works have in all
cases been exceeded. Although the rate of return has not been recalculated, a comparison of
the cost and benefit flows expected indicates that the IRR would be in all cases at least as
high as estimated. For the repair of the old commercial quays, the IRR of 23 percent was
based on a without-project situation requiring reconstruction in 2000, whereas with the
project this could be postponed until 2015. In the cases of the protection of the south bank
of the port basin (IRR, 33 percent) and eastern breakwater (IRR, 21 percent), there has been
no erosion of the basin and the breakwater deterioration has been stopped. In the case of



dredging, works carried out have permitted passage of clinker and oil tanker traffic at a
level twice as high as that assumed in estimating the 26 percent IRR, and the predicted
maintenance dredging period of four years has been confirmed.
III. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
A.   Implementation Record
22.   Paved road works began in late 1988, but all three were not completed until mid- or
late 1992. Unpaved road rehabilitation works financed by BOAD suffered from slow
implementation, from 1988 until 1990. Then the contractor went bankrupt. It was only in
mid-1995, after long negotiations with BOAD and unsuccessful rebidding in 1993 that the
works restarted, based on spot improvements rather than systematic rehabilitation or
regravelling. Ongoing works will be completed by mid-1996.
23.   Despite delays, efficient disbursement left IDA's credit with only US$0.8 million
undisbursed out of US$19.0 million in May 1993, and there was a proposal to advance the
closing date from March 1995 to March 1994. In the end, this did not happen due to a
decline in project management performance following the departure in late 1993 of the local
project coordinator, who was never replaced. Disbursements slowed in January 1994, and
operating costs began to increase following the devaluation of the CFA franc. The June
1994 audit of project accounts indicated that despite the capability of the local accounting
staff, project accounts had not been kept up when staff demands for an incentive were not
met. The situation has since been corrected and the final audit was acceptable.
Governnent's request to extend the original March 1995 closing date was denied, with
about SDR 365,312.57 remaining in the credit, and the project closed on the original
schedule with the remaining balance being cancelled.
B.   Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors Generally Beyond Government Control
24.   The project's preparation and early implementation coincided with a period of great
upheaval in Benin's economic and political life. The economic stagnation of 1983-87 and
the political turmoil of 1987-90 resulted in long strikes of civil servant in support of salary
payments and political reform; collapse of the banking system wiping out around CFA
franc 6 billion in cash and receivables for the PAC; and slowdown of economic activity
reducing collection of the fuel tax, the main resource used to finance road maintenance.
Following the 1990 National Conference, which paved the way for the 1991 elections, the
banks began to reopen but the political situation remained somewhat fluid. The political
and economic turmoil which coincided with the project's first three years, delayed start up
of road rehabilitation and maintenance because salaries were not paid, and staff were
demotivated, and the reorganization of road maintenance was delayed.



- 8 -
25.   Throughout the project period and especially from 1991, the Road Fund lost billions
of CFA franc in uncollected tax on fuel use due to widespread illegal importation of
untaxed fuel from Nigeria. On the order of 80 percent of fuel consumed was not purchased
in Benin, and the price differential of 300 percent to 500 percent could not be addressed
through domestic policy measures.
26.   The devaluation in January 1994 of the CFA franc had little impact on the project or
assistance because 95 percent of project funds had been committed by that time. The few
contracts still underway were quickly amended to take account of the change. However, the
devaluation had a major immediate negative impact on road maintenance costs and the
PAC's financial situation, thereby creating a new challenge for full achievement of project
objectives. The roughly 50 percent increase in road maintenance costs was not offset by an
increase in funds before 1995. The PAC's revenues denominated in foreign exchange are
small. The devaluation increased management and maintenance costs, leading to a
worsening of its financial situation, already weakened by a drop in import traffic levels.
The PAC's financial situation is still fragile.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
27.   Credit effectiveness, originally scheduled for October 1987, was postponed and
eventually declared on March 1988 because of slow implementation of conditions.
28.   Prior to the 1992 changes of government, frequent staff turnover and reluctance to
take decisions constrained the road component. Likewise, the Government's reluctance to
introduce significant increases in the road tax limited increases in the Road Fund resources
prior to 1995. In the port component, Government's reluctance to move towards even partial
privatization of cargo handling and to give the PAC authority to coordinate all port actors
continues to constrain increases in port productivity.
29.   While the project was not extended, it could have closed about a year earlier had the
Government corrected some serious shortcomings in the project's accounting and
coordination, as requested by IDA. Until 1992 and 1993, audit reports were not provided
on time. From mid-1994, the illness and death of the Minister of Public Works and
Transport and temporary assignment of project authority to the Energy Minister left a
vacuum which persisted until the nomination of a new Minister in July 1995.
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agencies' Control
30.   The technical assistance team to the Road Fund and the road maintenance office
(DROA) was provided with offices far from ministerial headquarters, a restriction which
limited the experts'access to information. That problem was resolved in late 1992, their
number being reduced and their offices moving closer to the Ministry's.



-9-
C.    Project's Sustainability
31.   The physical achievements of the project in road rehabilitation and maintenance are
expected to be sustainable. The PAC has privatized port maintenance works and is
reserving the necessary funds to pay for it. Long-term sustainability of DROA's
achievements in road maintenance depends on the completion of measures initiated under
the project, including progressive elimination of non-productive expenditures and improved
resource mobilization through generalization and privatization of road toll collections.
Improvements in resource collection initiated in 1995 are expected to double resources
available in the short term allowing DROA to carry out efficient maintenance of all the
priority network. The implementation of these measures would be supported under the
proposed Transport Sector Investment Program.
32.   There is full ownership of the sector strategy prepared under the project with the full
participation of all actors, and the project's institutional achievements are sustainable,
provided that MTPT and PAC retain experienced staff in key posts. Both the PAC and road
sector managers continue to be fully involved in increasing institutional performance from
within. The PAC's management spontaneously designed a successful internal
reorganization, introduced management improvements, and has taken the leadership in
setting up new mechanisms for port coordination. Traffic growth of about 3 percent per year
for the 1995-2000 period should result in a good operating ratio of about 80 percent, and
debt reduction will bring the debt-equity ratio down to about 50 percent by 2000. Thus,
working ratio and debt-equity ratio targets which the PAC was unable to meet through the
project period should be reached or exceeded in the near future.
D.    Assessment of Bank's Performance
33.   A major factor in project success was the quality of dialogue, based on consensus
building between the IDA task manager and Benin staff involved in project implementation.
There was also unusual continuity in task management throughout the project's lifetime;
only three task managers were involved from the initial project brief to closing, a period of
over ten years, and the second and third managers each had months or years of overlap. All
three tasks managers were experienced road engineers, and they were accompanied by
financial analysts who supervised port and cargo handling agency finances in four of the
last six supervision missions.
E.    Borrower Performance
34.   Progress was limited prior to the ministerial reorganization of 1992. Thereafter,
both the Transport Ministry and the PAC were able to move forward rapidly with works,
programming, studies and privatization activities which had been stalled, and they were
able to present proposals for reallocating uncommitted project funds which IDA accepted.
The 1994 illness and death of the Minister of Public Works and Transport left a vacuum in
leadership for about a year, but the continued dedication of key technical staff to the
objectives of this project and of the sector strategy contributed substantially to a renewal of



- 10-
commitment to actions required to implement the sector strategy over the 1995-2001 period
in a policy letter signed by the new Minister and approved by the Cabinet in February 1996.
35.   Government's counterpart contribution fell short of the US$4.8 million expected,
totaling US$2.3 million, composed of 10 percent of the cost of road and port works
financed by IDA, FAD and IDB. This funding shortage was overcome by the decision of
FED, CCCE and BOAD to cover 100 percent of costs for the works they financed.
F.    Assessment of Project's Outcome
36.   On the basis of the assessment summary shown in Table 1, the project's outcome is
rated satisfactory. The assessment with regard to the initial project objectives is as follows:
(a)   Past investments in the port and road network were effectively protected
through port dredging and repairs and by building maintenance capacity.
(b)   Port productivity was improved relative to its earlier performance in low
traffic situations; potentially greater increases in productivity during the
project were constrained by Government reluctance to privatize cargo
handling and confer to the PAC the authority to require Customs'
participation in port management systems.
(c)   The Ministry's capacity for road sector management, study and project
preparation and staff management and training was greatly improved. A
single sector-wide rolling investment program for road and port investments
was accepted at the project outset.
(d)   Private sector participation in road maintenance increased from insignificant
levels to nearly half of annual works, with parallel reductions in force
account works and staffing levels. Government has now set specific limits
to force account road maintenance works (CFA franc 1 billion), with the rest
going to private contractors.
IV. FUTURE OPERATIONS
37.   A proposed US$ 45.0 million Transport Sector Investment Program, scheduled for
late FY96 or early FY97 and the first to be conceived in the context of a full sector strategy,
was prepared in parallel with the last six supervision missions of the project. It comprises
IDA's support to the Government's 1996-2000 Priority Investment Program in the transport
sector, and reflects IDA's involvement in the roads and port subsectors. Under this program
Government will finance routine maintenance. Donors will finance road sector management
improvements, a traffic safety program, support to local contractors, and civil works to
rationalize the use of space within the port and support for operational and financial
improvements. The program includes also support to innovative institutional arrangements
in rural road maintenance and urban traffic management. The program's overall design



- 11 -
reflects the specific lessons of the Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project, and the
design of individual project components also reflects subsector-specific implementation
lessons. Two design changes applying throughout the project involve the switch from
permanent to short-term technical assistance, and introduction of mechanisms for user
participation in decision-making.
V.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
38.   The key lessons learned are as follows:
(a)    Usefulness of Sector Strategy Work. Successful participatory preparation
of a full sector strategy document has led to implei lentation of reform
measures, harmonization of donor activities, and adoption of economic
standards.
(b)   Successful Privatization of Public Works. Introducing competition
between existing force account and small local enterprises provides a good
transitional arrangement toward privatization without abolishing existing
agencies. In fact, the coexistence of both force account and private
contractors doing the same kind of road maintenance works gave both an
incentive to optimize performance.
(c)   Designing Robust Project Objectives. The limited and straightforward
nature of the project's objectives proved sufficiently robust to withstand
extended political and economic turbulence, the birth of a democratically
elected government, privatization, natural disaster, a substantial drop in
domestic funds for road maintenance, and devaluation. The project did not
need to be reappraised or restructured. Technical standards for works were
modified and road sections were added or dropped, but the project
objectives remained the same.
(d)   Lightening Up Technical Assistance. The full-time technical assistance
arrangements in the project were very expensive and did not work well. A
better arrangement has been made for the next project, involving short-term
visits to achieve specific objectives linked to performance indicators. The
sharing of this function by a combination of local and international
consultants would offer the advantage of both cost reduction and local
accessibility.



- 12 -
PART II - STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.  Achievement of objectives         Substantia          Partial        Negliiible    Not applicable
Macro policies                                                                           X
Sector policies                       X_
Financial objectives                                   X
Institutional development             X
Physical objectives                   X
Poverty reduction                                                                        X
Gender issues                                                                            X
Other social objectives                                                                  X
Environmental objectives                                                                 X
Public sector management              X
Other (specify) Privatization         XX
B.  Project sustainabilitv               Likely          Unlikely        Uncertain
( ,/)           I -' .,'
X
H gihly
C.  Bank performance                  satisfactory     Satisfactory      Deficient
Identification                                         X
Preparation assistance                                 X
Appraisal                             X
Supervision                           X
Hicihl
D.  Borrower performance              satisfactory     Satisfactor       Deficient
( /1           (,,-              (9/
Preparation                                            X X_
Implementation                                         X
Covenant compliance                                    X
Operation (if applicable)             X
Hichly                                             H ghly
E.  Assessment of outcome             satisfactory     Satisfacto-ry    Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactorv
(, -        ( ,              (.       )( X  



- 13 -
Table 2: Related Bank LoanslCredits
Year of
Loanicredit title                           Purpose                     approval      Status
Preceding operations
1. Highway Maintenance           Highway maintenance program                       1970   Completed
and Engineering Project
2. Second Highway Project        Rehabilitation of Parakou-Malanville Road         1973   Completed
3. Third Highway Project         Rehabilitation and resurfacing of 575 km of       1977   Completed
bitumnous and laterite roads: TA to the
Ministries of Public Works and Transport;
strengthening of on-going routine maintenance
4. Fourth Highway Project        Rehabilitation of paved and gravel roads;         1981   Completed
improve the organization and administrative
procedures of the Directorates of Roads and
Bridges; train local staff; and road safety
program
5. First Feeder Road Project     To improve rural roads under the Sou-Borgou       1977   Completed
Cotton Project
6. Second Feeder Road Project    Construction of 700 km of roads and its           1980   Completed
maintenance, plus maintenance of roads
constructed under the previous project
7. Third Feeder Road Project     3-year construction program of 840 km of          1984   Completed
feeder roads of low standard tracks;
maintenance of about 2,000 km of feeder
roads; technical assistance and training
8. Cotonou Port Project          To provide additional capacity at Cotonou port    1979   Completed
to accommodate the increasing traffic;
improve operational and financial performance
of PAC and cargo handling company
Following operations
1. Transport Sector Project      To focus on infrastructure maintenance and       1996L   In process
rehabilitation, supporting rural production,             (preparation)
encouraging private sector supply response,
mobilizing domestic resources through user
charges, and building institutional capacity.



- 14 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle            Date Planned    Date Revised    latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                           3-Dec-82
Preparation                                                                          19-Jul-85
Appraisal                                            May-85                         17-May-85
Negotiations                                         Jan-86         Mar-85          20-Apr-87
Board presentation                                   Apr-86          Jul-86         26-May-87
Signing                                              Apr-86          Jul-86         24-Jun-87
Effectiveness                                        Oct-87         Jan-88          25-Mar-88
Project completion
Loan closing                                         Mar-95                         31-Mar-95
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95
Appraisal Estimate           2.15    5.78   10.32   14.38   17.20   18.68   19.50    0.00
Actual                       0.98   2.84    5.12   10.06   15.68   19.32   20.03   20.08
Actual as % of Estimate     45.6%   49.1%   49.6%   70.0%   91.2%  103.4%  102.7%  103.0%
Date of Final Disbursement: August 2, 1995



- 15-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key implementation indicators in
SAR/President's Report                            Estimated              Actual
Rehabilitation of Roads (km)
- paved                                               440                  440
- unpaved                                             1,002              1529a'
Rehabilitation of Port Infrastructure
- dredging                                              1                   1
- Eastern breakwater                                    1                   1
- old commercial quays                                  1                    1
- protection of South bank                              1                    1
Road Fund Ressources (CFA franc million)
- from 1989 to 1993                                   2,977                994
- in 1994                                             2,977                1,581
- in 1995                                             2,977                2,050
Routine Maintenance Expenditure
- from 1989 to 1993                                   2,205                550
- in 1994                                            2,205                 680
- in 1995                                             2,205                1,427
PAC's working ratio                                     0.45              0.61 in 1991
0.44 in 1992
0.45 in 1993
0.52 in 1994
PAC long term indebtness                               35 to 65          30-70 in 1991
61-39 in 1992
58-42 in 1993
61-39 in 1994
Decrease in staffing by 1992                            20%                  45%
aI reduction in technical standards
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not applicable



- 16 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study                  at appraisal/redefined          Status     Impact of study
Dredging Study          Definition of technical and financial  Completed   Development of a
aspects of dredging                              dredging plan and
budget
Reform of Equipment     Define the strategy for the reform of  Completed  Decision for reform
pool                   the Equipment pool                                taken by Conseil
des Ministres in
Feb-95
Strategy Study          Finalization of the document for the  Completed   Strategy discussed
Transport Sector Strategy                        with donors in
Oct-93



- 17-
Table 8 A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest
(US$ million) '       Estimate (USS million)
Item                  Local  Foreign            Local  Foreign
costs   costs    Total   costs   costs   Total d
A. Maritime Sector
1. Cotonou Port Rehabilitation      1.50     5.70    7.20                         6.50
2. OBEMAP                           0.10     1.60     1.70                        2.30
B. Highway Sector                     12.60    27.00    39.60                      54.50
C. Institution Building                0.90    5.10     6.00                        8.10
Base Cost                             15.10    39.40    54.50                      71.40
Physical Contingencies                 2.10    4.80     6.90
Price Contingencies                    2.40    6.70     9.10
TOTAL PROJECT COST bh                 19.60    50.90    70.50
a/ From page 4 of MOP
b/ Project is exempt from taxes and duties
cd PPF and Special Account 1.2 million US$ included
Table 8 B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest
(US$ million) a       Estimate (US$ million)
Source                  Local  Foreign            Local  Foreign
costs   costs   Total   costs   costs    Total
IDA                                    2.70    16.80    19.50                     20.40
Government                             3.20    1.60     4.80                      2.30
CCCE                                                    2.40                      2.30
FAC                                                     1.40
BOAD                                                    6.20                      5.30
ADF                                                     8.60                      9.00
IDB                                                     4.60                      4.20
EDF                                                     23.00                     27.90
TOTAL                   5.90    18.40    70.50                     71.40



- 18-
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic Rate of Return          SAR Estimate        Actual
Port
Repair of the Old                   23.20%            same
Commercial Quays
Protection of the South             33.00%            same
Bank of the Basin
Eastern Breakwater                  21.00%            same
Dredging                            26.00%           >26 %
Roads
Resurfacing of the                  68.60%           >68.6 %
Porto-Novo-Pobe Road
Rehabilitation of the              105.85%           - 49 %
Parakou-Malanville Road
Rehabilitation of the               30.00%           >30 %
Come-Dogbo Road
Gravel Roads Regravelling           42.40%            220%
and Rehabilitation



- 19-
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants In the Credit Agreement
Agreement       Text       Covenant        Present      Fulfillment Date                                Description of                                               Commeat
Ret         Type          Stots                                                          Covenant
Origi-    Revi-
_ _ _ _ _                        ni        ted                                                                               _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  __Mal_se
CREDfT         2.02(b)        5             C                             Borrower to open and maintain in CFA francs a Special Account and operate it in
accordance with Schedule 5 of the Credit Agreement.
3.01(d)        3             C                             The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Categories (I)
through (3) of the table set forth in para. I of Schedule I to this Agreement to PAC
under a subsidiary loan agreement.
3.02(a)        5             C                             Establish and Maintain a Project Account in a commercial bank to be used for
meeting expenditures under Parts B and C (c), (d) and (e) of the Project not financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
3.02(b)        4             NC                            Deposit in the Project Account, before the beginning of each quarter of its fiscal  Treasury does not deposit all collected funds and
year, the Borrower's contribution towards expenditures under (a) above.   delays can reach 8 months.
4.01(a)        1,5           C                             Maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of Parts B & C (c),
(d) and (e) of the Project
4.01 (b) (i)    1,9            C                            Have records and accounts including Special Accounts audited for each fiscal year,
and fiumish to IDA ASAP but not later than 6 months after the end of each year a
certified copy of the audit report.
4.01(d)        1,5           C                             The Borrower shall cause OBEMAP to maintain records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations and financial
conditions of OBEMAP.
4.01(e)        1,9           C                             The Borrower shall cause OBEMAP to have records., accounts and financial
statements audited for each fiscal year, and fumish to IDA ASAP but not later than 6
months after the end of each year a certified copy of its financial statements.
4.02         3,5            C                             Until the completion of the Project, the Borrower shall fumish to IDA for its  1993-1997 program being discussed.
approval its proposed annual investment plan, as well as its proposed annual
expenditures for recurrent needs, for the entire transport sector.
PAC         4.01 (c)       1,5,9          C                             (i) - (iii) Maintain accounts and provide IDA with annual audit reports not later than
6 months after the end of each fiscal year.
4.02(a)        2             NC                            For each Fiscal Year after December 31, 1987, achieve a working ratio not  Working ratio 0.49. Work force was reduced by
exceeding 0.45.                                                           50%/o in late 1991.
4.03(a)         2             NC                            PAC not to incur any long-term debt unless its debt to equity ratio does not exceed    52/48 in 1993 due to debt rescheduling with
35/65 after incidence of the planned additional borrowing.               CAA.
4.04             5             C                            Fumish to IDA not later than 08/31 of each year the annual (a) maintenance program   1993-1997 program discussed with the
and related budget and (b) the proposed multi year investment plan and budget for    framework of the Transport Strategy.
the following year.
SL# 1       2.1(a) (b)       I0            C        06/30/88             Select before June 30, 1988 a consultant to develop within 6 months an analytical
and (c)                                                     accounting system: a consultant to assist in Economic Studies and Port tariffing, and
a consultant to assist during 15 man months in the reinforcement of intemal auditing
and the establishment of an MIS.



- 20 -
Agreement       Text       Covenant       Present       Fulfillment Date                                Description of                                               Comments
Ref.        Type          Status                                                         Covenant
Oiigi-    Revi-
_________       ___________      mi~nil   sed
SL N I      3.1             2,5            C                             Reduce receivables following agreed objectives.
3.2              5             C                            Reschedule debt service arrears to die Caisse Autonome d'Amortissements and
resume related payments
3.1              5             C                            Revise tariffs annually and/or limit working expenses to generate funds to finance  PAC reduced its staff by 500/e in 1991.
investments and debt service and maintain a positive cash position.
3.4             2,5           CP                            Compensate receivables due by dissolved State Companies by the write off of an  Agreement reached between PAC and CAA as of
equal amount of PAC's debts to the State.                                 June 18, 1992. Still to be formally signed by MF
SL #2       5              4,5,11         CP                            Annual Beninese contribution towards road maintenance to reach in constant CFAF    Needs to be revised. In 1988, the Road Fund
billions: 2.70 in 1988: 2.97 in 1989 through 1993. Out ofthese the Road Fund was    resources amounted to CFAF 1.6 billions; in
to collect 1.96 billions in 1989 through 1993.                            1989; CFAF 933 in 1990.
16             4,11            C                            Increase the share of the fuel tax earmarked for the Road Fund by CFAF 8/liter by
the beginning of FY88.
16             5,11           CP                            Further increase this share to finance 100% of routine maintenance and I00/6 of  Needs to be revised.
paved roads and 30% of gravel roads. Altematively or complementarily levy an  Being discussed
Axle tax. Adjust the annual tax per vehicle to have its output growing in line with
the average traffic pace.
SL #3       Supp.           5,12          CP                            To finance the establishment and the operations of the "Direction des Etudes et de la   Needs to be revised.
Letter                                                      Programmation (DEP).                                                      DEP was dismantled. CPC was created.
Covenant types:                                                                                                                   Present Status:
I = Accounts/audits                                     8 = Indigenous people.
2 = Financial performance/revenue generation from       9 = Monitoring, review and reporting.                                     C  = Covenant complied with
beneficiaries                                                                                                                CD = Complied with after delay.
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds.               10 = Project Implementation not covered by categories 1-9                CP = Complied with partially.
4 = Counterpart funding.                                 II = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetaiy or other resource allocation   NC = Not complied with
5 = Management aspects of the project or executing agency.  12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
6 = Environmental covenants.                            13 = Other
7 = Involuntary resettlement.



- 21 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title             Describe and comment on lack of compliance
OD 10.60
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing
OD 12.20
Special Accounts                               The audit reports were not submitted on time
OP 12.30
Statement of Expenditure
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle                Actual
Weeks           USSbI
Through Appraisal                         39.3
Appraisal - Board                        109.2
Board - effectiveness                     16.1
Supervision '                            104.9
Completion
TOTAL                        269.5
at as d May 1995
bl Dollar budget availabe onty ancs 1990 for parvid and revised, bit not for actual



- 22 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
_ .                                        I Performance rating
Number              Specialized    Implemen- Develop-
Month/    of    Days in    staff skills     tation     ment        Types of
Stage of Project Cycle   Year  Persons   Field   Represented a/   status   objectives    prob fms
Through Appraisal    Feb-83
Jan-84    3        10    HE,PE,FA
Apr-84     1       5    FA
Jun-84    3        4    HE,FA,PE,FA
Appraisal through   May-85      4        19   HE,SFA,FA,PE,TS
Board approval      Sep-85      5        6    HE,PE,FA,SRE
Aug-86     3             HE,PE,FA
Board approval
through effectiveness
Supervision 1        Jul-87     2        4    SPE,HE               1          1
Supervision 2        Oct-87     1        8    FA                   1          1
Supervision 3       Apr-88      2        4    SHE,EC               1          2
Supervision 4        Jul-88     1        2    SHE                  1          2
Supervision 5       May-89      1        7    SHE                  2          2     AF
Supervision 6        Jul-89     2       14   SHE,CONS              2          2    AF
Supervision 7       May-90      3       15   SHE,HE,CONS           2          2     AF,FP,CLC
Supervision 8       Aug-90      2       10   HE,CONS               2          2     AF,FP,CLC
Supervision 9       Jan-91      1        5    HE                   2          2     AF,FP,CLC
Supervision 10      Aug-91      2       N.A.  HE,CONS              3          2     AF,FP,CLC
Supervision 11       Oct-91     2       10   HE,CONS               2          2     AF,FP,CLC,TAP
Supervision 12      Feb-92      2        6    HE,CONS              --         -
Supervision 13       Jun-92     2        6    HE,CONS              2          1
Supervision 14       Oct-92     1        8    HE                   2          2
Supervision 15      Mar-93      1        7    HE                   2          2
Supervision 16       Apr-93     1       22   HE                    2          2     AF,FP
Supervision 17      Jun-93      1        6    HE                   2          2
Supervision 18       oct-93     2       19    HE,HE                2          3     AF,PM,TR,TAP
Supervision 19       Dec-93     2       18    HE,FA                2          2     AF
Supervision 20       Apr-94     2       10    HE,FA                2          2     AF
Supervision 21       JuA-94     2       13    HE,FA                2          2     AF
Supervision 23       Apr-95     3       24    HE,FA,CONS           2          2     AF
Completion
a/ Key to Specialization
SFA = Senior Financial Analyst        CONS = Consultant (FA)               FA = Financial Analyst
SHE = Senior Highway Engineer         HE = Highway Engineer                TS = Training Specialist
SRE = Railway Engineer                PE = Port Engineer
b/ Key to Status
1 = Problem Free        2 = Moderate problems                   3 = Major Problems
c/ Key to Problems
AF = Availability of Funds   CLC = Compliance with Legal Covenants         TR = Training Progress
FP = Financial Performnance  PP = Procurement Progress
TAP = Tech. Asst. Progress   PM = Project Management



- 23 -
APPENDIX: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
I. PORT COMPONENT
Introduction
1.    The Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project contributed
to a substantial improvement in port operations. The two main objectives, i.e., protecting
past investments and increasing the productivity of port institutions, were fully attained.
The training element was not fully executed.
2.    Project execution experienced a major delay at startup, caused essentially by the
somewhat complex nature of administrative procedures for credit ratification. This
contributed to cost increases for certain components.
3.    A more detailed assessment of project implementation is presented below. Project
objectives, content and outcome are presented in the first part of this Implementation
Completion Report, prepared by the World Bank.
Project Design
4.    Government had observed the deterioration of port infrastructure through
corrosion, erosion and lack of maintenance, which in the long term risked compromising
infrastructure survival. In order to correct this situation, Government requested assistance
from its external partners to finance the Port Infrastructure Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Project, within the framework of a larger project covering transport
infrastructure in general.
5.    Project design is based directly on priorities defined by Government in the port
subsector: consolidation and maintenance of infrastructure, and improvement of port
management. The project's design was very much influenced by the experience of the
previous port project: in the present project:
*     works were divided into lots, allowing for easier supervision;
*     project structure was simplified, in terms of the numbers of components
and donors involved;
*     realistic objectives were adopted;



- 24 -
*     mechanisms were put in place for more effective coordination among
PAC, private enterprises, consultants, Government's financial intermediary
(Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement or CAA), and donors;
*     more practical and workable arrangements were made for supervision of
works and technical assistance.
Project Preparation
6.    PAC played a leading role in project preparation: it conceived and prepared terms
of reference for studies and participated in study preparation. PAC's point of view was
clearly articulated and taken into account insofar as possible.
Project Execution
7.    Project effectiveness and early project execution experienced major delays,
essentially for the reasons mentioned above. Despite these delays, the project was
satisfactorily executed once it became effective.
8.    The main factors which promoted works implementation are:
*     involvement of local staff at all stages of project cycle;
*     greater familiarity with World Bank procedures;
*     the simplicity of project design;
*     good overall working relationship with donors.
9.    The financial objectives and the internal restructuring, especially staff reductions,
were not carried out within the planned timetable because project design and
programming of recommended measures did not take into account local conditions.
Borrower's Performance
10.   The Borrower, represented by PAC, adequately fulfilled its responsibilities.
Main Lessons Learned
11.   The main lessons learned are as follows:
*     avoid complexity in project design;
*     target technical assistance carefully and ensure regular supervision;
*     stabilize existing administrative structures and the key managers within
them;
*     use simple conditionalities;
*     ensure regular and sustained supervision by donors.



- 25 -
Project Impacts on the Port of Cotonou and the Economy
12.   The logic underlying the economic justification of the port investments is clear
and self-evident, since their realization protected port structures which had suffered
severe deterioration over time. These deteriorations threatened the survival of structures
in the original port.
13.   Since the project started two years late, certain structures whose status had been
acceptable at the time of appraisal in 1987, had continued to deteriorate, leading to the
need for additional works to take into account the worrisome condition of certain
structures.
14.   Overall the project was carried out in accordance with applicable international
standards. Execution of works encountered no difficulties. At project startup, there were
delays due to the effectiveness procedures for World Bank credits and to lengthy
administrative procedures. Procedures required for signing of the credit agreement
constituted a fundamental bottleneck to project effectiveness.
15.   Benin's port administrators were able to get down to the business of implementing
the project as soon as the Credit Agreement was signed. In managing this project, PAC's
work was made much easier because of the experience gained during the implementation
of the Cotonou Port Project. This experience meant that:
*     staff experienced in relevant activities were made available to work on
the project;
*     good coordination was ensured with contractors and consultants, as well as
with the CAA (Government's financial intermediary for Credit 1807-
BEN);
3     more rigorous and more appropriate supervision was carried out for
project activities, and problems were identified in a timely way during the
execution of works, thus avoiding prolonged work stoppages due to non-
conformity of quantities or standards with contract requirements, so that
physical works could be carried out at a normal pace.
16.   Practical measures were also taken to supervise technical assistance staff, so that
their involvement would effectively contribute to improvements in the management of
the port.
17.   In this context, it is deplorable that management objectives were not entirely
attained in respect of the effective implementation of cost accounting for PAC. The
supervision and management tools which the consultant was to have set up did not fully
correspond to the needs which had been expressed. On the other hand, in certain areas the
consultant was able to accurately analyze problems and propose relatively operational
approaches to improve the situation.



- 26 -
World Bank Performance
18.   The World Bank was sufficiently cooperative with the Borrower both at project
startup and during its implementation. With this donor, solutions were found to overcome
any difficulty which arose. In particular, regular supervision of works by the Bank
facilitated project coordination throughout the implementation period, and also allowed
for constructive discussions which kept the project on track.
19.   But in respect of execution of individual project elements, virtually none of the
training program was carried out, with the exception of training in transport economics.
This program should have received special attention, given the institutional restructuring
which was going on. Remaining staff needed to upgrade their professional qualifications
in order to improve PAC's output. Technical assistance staff did help somewhat to train
staff on the job, but the expected transfer of knowledge fell short of what had been hoped
for. Paradoxically, training designed to make up this deficit was never carried out. It is
therefore necessary for Government's requests to the Bank to finance measures to support
PAC's restructuring to be acted upon. Otherwise, the forthcoming sector project should
take into account this preoccupation and make up for the previous project's failure by
paying special attention to PAC's training needs.
Islamic Development Bank's Performance
20.   The Islamic Development Bank contributed a portion of project financing in
accordance with the final financing plan worked out by the World Bank. The cooperation
and availability of BID representatives contributed to the proper execution of IDB-
financed work lots. The few difficulties encountered were essentially due to difficulties of
international communications with the headquarters of this institution. These difficulties
disrupted exchange of information and led to a lag in reaction time from this donor, in
response to problems for which its advice was required. It should also be mentioned that
the balance of the BID loan, 505,397 Islamic Dinars was cancelled, in spite of PAC's
request to use this amount to finance the rehabilitation of port platforms.
II. HIGHWAY COMPONENT
21.   This report covers essentially the portion of the highway component financed by
IDA. Overall, the main objectives of the project were attained, although some objectives
were modified during project execution to take into account the realities of the situation
on the ground.
22.   Project execution experienced certain difficulties relating essentially to certain
aspects of its original design and to the socio-political context prevailing at the time it
was getting underway. In effect, from 1987 to 1990, the high turnover of staff in key
decision-making positions within the ministry did not allow for continuous and regular



- 27 -
local supervision of project activities. At the same time, frequent staff changes within the
technical assistance team was detrimental to project management during this period.
Project Design
23.   The design of the project was based on the lessons learned from the Fourth
Highway Project. Three fundamental aspects of the Transport Infrastructure
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project reflect lessons learned during the Fourth
Highway Project:
*     There was special emphasis on the use of mechanized force account teams
required to perform on the basis of unit costs established in advance, as is
done for private contractors.
*     A major effort was made to reinforce the capacity of internal supervision
on the part of Government staff, by involving the equipment rental unit,
SMTP, in project management, something which had not been done
during the Fourth Highway Project. During the latter project, an
autonomous unit, independent of SMTP and financed with outside funds,
had been responsible for maintenance of equipment used for site works. It
became clear that this structure was not sustainable and could not be
continued after the Fourth Highway Project came to an end.
*     Steps were taken to strengthen SMTP and improve its operational
performance and its ability to manage its equipment pool.
24.   Steps were also taken to centralize all road maintenance activities within DROA
so as to eliminate internal contradictions and conflicts of authority which kept DROA
from administering all aspects of road maintenance. Other innovations were introduced
during the project, in particular the increased participation of the private sector in road
maintenance works, which had previously been carried out exclusively under force
account.
25.   However, some administrative arrangements which were tried, such as the
nomination of provincial heads of road maintenance units (Services provinciaux des
routes et ouvrages d'art, or SPROA), did not fully take into account the operational
complexities at the provincial level. The result was that road maintenance funds were
used for other purposes until 1992, when the situation was finally rectified.
26.   Also, the existence of more than one decision-making center (both DROA and the
Road Fund) did not facilitate the supervision of funds committed and paid out under
Credit 1807-BEN. Nor were there sufficiently transparent arrangements set up for a real
and effective transfer of knowledge in financial management and accounting, including
cost accounting, from technical assistance staff to local staff. Technical assistance costs
absorbed too great a share of overall resources made available for the highway
component of the project: CFA franc 1.5 billions out of a total of CFA franc 4.7 billions,



- 28 -
or nearly a third; this is a very high percentage. Lower technical assistance costs would
have meant more resources could have been allocated to civil works.
Project Preparation
27.   The project was prepared under difficult socio-political conditions, characterized
by tremendous instability within Government offices. Frequent transfers and turnover of
staff at all levels meant that Government was not sufficiently involved in the preparation
of the project, which was in the main carried out by external consultants.
Project Execution
28.   Problems relating to the instability mentioned above contributed heavily to delays
in the effective startup of certain works, in particular those on unpaved (earth) roads. The
consequences of these delays (extreme deterioration on most of the network) led to
modifications of certain aspects of the project's initial objectives. However, following a
stabilization of the situation beginning in 1990, works got underway and continued at a
satisfactory pace. All the project's main objectives were attained. Other emergency needs
which arose during project execution were acceptably met.
29.   As for modifications made to some of the project's initial objectives, these
include:
The shift to spot rehabilitation (elimination of trouble spots) rather than
systematic rehabilitation;
Inclusion of maintenance for the Godomey-Cotonou-Porto-Novo road and
of Red Star-New Bridge-Sobrera Crossroads, not originally included in the
project;
Addition of emergency repair works of Cotonou urban roads, following
the severe flooding of 1991, also not originally included.
Project execution suffered from two main problems:
High turnover in the technical assistance team members from 1989 to
1992 due to poor performance, leading to high technical assistance costs,
since some experts' terms were extended because they had not yet
completed all aspects of the activities for which they were responsible.
Ineffectiveness of cost accounting set up by the assigned expert, which did
not allow for proper costing of civil works.
30.   Furthermore, the participation of SMEs in road maintenance works ran into
serious difficulties:



- 29 -
*     delays in works execution (up to four times as long as times specified in
contracts);
*     lack of proper supplies;
*     lack of adequate financial depth and relevant experience.
In conclusion, the experience of privatizing road works seems to have suffered from the
absence of a sound market study which would have revealed the constraints and risks
involved. The weaknesses in cost accounting mentioned above still prevent an adequate
comparison of force account and privately contracted works.
31.   Still, the positive results achieved were made possible because of the following
factors:
*     Greater stability in local staff beginning in 1990, when unpaved road
works got underway;
*     Constructive collaboration and coordination with IDA staff, characterized
by good project supervision;
e     Dedication of local staff.
Borrower Performance
32.   The performance of the borrower should be seen in two distinct periods: before
and after 1990. Prior to 1990, as mentioned above, the overall socio-political context
prevented adequate functioning of Government services. This contributed to a lack of real
involvement by local staff in important aspects of project design and implementation. For
example, technical assistance was in place for a year prior to actual startup of project
works, and was being paid for their presence with no appropriate reaction on
Government's part. From 1990 on, the Borrower was able to ensure better supervision of
project activities. However, even during this period there was a lag in taking the decision
to centralize road maintenance activities within DROA (1992), and counterpart funds
were not made available in accordance with the Credit Agreement.
World Bank Performance
33.   The World Bank carried out regular and continuous supervision of the project.
This enabled reshaping of project components as needed to adapt them to changing local
conditions. The Bank demonstrated flexibility and understanding during the execution of
civil works. Still, it should be mentioned that in certain cases, less rigidity on the part of
the World Bank expert would have contributed to greater effectiveness in project
management.



- 30-
Lessons Learned
34.   The stability of staff in key positions constitutes an important factor in the
internalization of the project by the Borrower and in its execution.
35.   The goals of the project corresponded to actual needs, despite the fact that the
project was designed prior to the definition of a sectoral policy framework. In the future,
transport projects will fit into Government's transport sector policy which has existed
since October 1993, and this will mean a closer relationship between project objectives
and actual needs.
36.   Better supervision of technical assistance, including clearer definition of tasks to
be accomplished, should be sought in order to ensure good performance, especially
regarding the transfer of knowledge to local staff.
37.   SMEs could gain experience in road maintenance more gradually and more in line
with their technical and financial capabilities.
38.   Management of project resources (expenditure commitment and project
accounting) should be centralized within a single entity (DROA) in order to avoid
coordination and supervision problems.
39.   It is desirable that the cost of foreign technical assistance in future projects be kept
to a reasonable proportion of total project costs, in order to encourage greater
participation by local expertise.












IMAGING
Report, No:     15474
Type: ICR



