Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6000-BEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
REHAEILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
April 30, 1987
Western Africa Pro,ects Departnent
Transportation Division
This document bas a restricted distribution und may be used by recipients oaly in the performance of
their *.licial duties. its rontents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorbation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - CFAF
tTS$1 - CFAF 314
CFAF 1 million - US$3,185
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric                            US equivalent
1 meter (m)            =            3,28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                    0.62 mile (mi.)
1 metric ton (t)       =            2,205 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF     -  African Development Fund
BCEAO   -  Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (Central
Bank for Western African Countries)
BOAD    -  Banque Ouest Africaine de Développement
CCCE    -  Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique
CFR     -  Centre de Formation et de Recyclage (Training Ceater
in MET/DROA)
DEP     -  Direction des Etudes et de la Planification (Directorate of
Studies and Planning in MET)
DFR     -  Direction du Fonds Routier
DPET    -  Direction Provinciale de l'Equipement et des Transports
(Provincial Directorate of Equipment and Transport in MET)
DROA    - Direction des Routes et Ouvrages d'Art (Roads Directorate
in MET)
EDF     -  European Development Fund
FAC     -  Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération (French Aid Agency)
IDB     -  Islamic Development Bank
MET     -  Ministère de l'Equipement et des Transports (Ministry of
Equipment and Transport)
NITRA   -  Société Nigerienne de Transit
OBEMAP  -  Office Béninois des Manutentions Portuaires (Beninese Cargo
Handling Company)
OBSS    -  Office Béninois de Sécurité Sociale
OCBN    -  Organisation Commune Bénin-Niger (Benin-Niger Organization
for Transport Coordination) (manages the railway)
PAC     -  Port Autonome de Cotonou (Cotonou Port Authority)
PESP    -  Public Enterprise Sector Rehabilitation Project
SER     -  Service de l'Entretien des Routes (Road Maintenance
Division in DROA)
SMTP    -  Service du Matériel des Travaux Publics
(Equipment Maintenance Division in DROA)
SONATRAC- Société Nationale de Transit et de Consignation
SOTRACOB- Société de Transit et de Consignation du Bénin
SPROA   -  Service Provincial des Routes et Ouvrages d'Art
(Regional Units of Road Maintenance)
SRDR    -  Service des Routes de Dessertes Rurales (Feeder Roads
Division in DROA)
v.o.c.  -  Vehicle operating cost
v.p.d.  -  Vehicles per day
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOM oPCUaL U ONLY
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
DOOCMEMTS AVAILABLE IN TUE PROJECT FILE ..........................   iii
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMlARY *......* .....**       .....*......    vi
I.  INTRODUCTION ...*................*a***.*****................       1
II.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .........*............ ...........  .
AS. Background .............  .......6.........................    1
B.  The Transport System ..... ...* *ê.......**..............    2
C.  Sector Organization ................. ..... .                  4
D.  Sector Planning and Road Financing          .....................    7
E.  Sector Policy ...........*..*******..*......... .10......     IO
F.  IDA Involvement in the Sector  ..........................   10
III.  THE PROJECT ...................................
A.  Project Objectives ...*.....**.e..e***..**** ** *    I1
B.  Project Description .... .... .   ............*.....*.....*   i1
C.  Project Cost and Financing .....      ........................   15
D.  Project Implementation and Present Statue ..............      15
E.  Procurement ..................................    16
F. Disbursement ..... . ..**.... ...... .......... 18
G.  Accounting, Auditing and Reporting......................    19
H.  Environmental Aspects                                         20
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION             ....................               20
V.  FINANCIAL EVALUATION 2....................*23
VI. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ................   25
This report vas prepared by Messrs A.Cissé (Righvay Engineer), A.Covindassamy
(Senior Financial Analyst), M.Loir (Financial Analyst), J.F.Naquet (Port En-
gineer), and J.M.Verdier (Training Specialist) on the basis of an appraisal
mission in June 1985 and a post-appraisal mission in October 1985. Secretar-
ial work vas done by Kirie-Nolle Griest, Rathna Chiniah and LaVerne Dorsey.
This document has a restricted distribution ad may he usd by ecipients only in the pformmne
of thei offlciai duties. Its contents may not otherwi be dsclosed without Wori Bankp V--aIim.



- ii -
Tables of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES                                                             Page
2-1  Port Traffic Statistics .....                     ...........    28
2-2  Existing Port Facilities .... ....... .............. .   29
2-3  Port Productivity Indicators ......... ........................  33
2-4  Roada Rehabilitation Program - Gravel Roads ...................   34
2-5  PAC Organizatlon Chart ***Q****.*e**********Q****t**..**e.....   35
2-6  Action Plan for PAC ..****. . .........                          36
2-7  OBEMAP Organization Chart       .... . .. .        ....... ...   40
2-8  Action Plan for OBEMAP ..* ........* ...................   41
2-9  MET Organization Chart ...................... ............... ...    46
2-10 Action Plan for Road Maintenance and Management Unit .........   48
2-11 Action Plan for DEP  ....                      ..........*.....   58
2-12 PAC Investment Plan, FY1987-1990 ...........................     64
2-13  OBEMAP Investment Plan, FY1987-1989 ............................  65
2-14 Past and Ongoing Projects in the Transport Sector in Bénin ...   66
3-1  Summary Accounts Cost Suumary ...............................    68
3-2  Financing Plan ...............................................   69
3-3  Implementation Plan ....................................    70
3-4  Estimated Disbursement Schedule ............... ..................   72
3-5  Reporting Requirements for the Righway Component ..........*...  73
4-1  Economic Analysis - Port Subsector ............ ..................   75
4-2  Economic Analysis - Rehabilitation of
the Porto Novo Pobé Road ......*q...*...*..Q***.......***..   88
4-3  Economic Analysis - Rehabilitation of
the Parakou-Malanville Road .    ...............................    94
4-4  Economic Analysis - Rehabilitation of the Comé-Dogbo Road ....   98
4-5  Economic Analysis - Regravelling and Rehabilitation
of 1,002 km of Gravel Roads *...*****.....*e...*..*..****...   101
5-1  Financial Analysis of PAC ................................   105
5-2  Financial Analysis of OBEMAP ..............................    113
MAPS IBRD 19472R
IBRD 19473



- iii -
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTUR$ EERABILITATIOM ANM MAINT!NANCE PROJECT
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN TUE PROJECT FILE
Project File Code/
Re!.  No                Document Title                  Bank Document No.
1.    Projtet Processing
1-1  Aide-Mémoire Pre-Appraisal Mission         Corresp. 12.05.84
1-2  Aide-Mémoire Appraisal Mission             Corresp. 06.07.95
1-3  Letter of Confirmation of Aide
Mémoire                                   Corresp. 07.08.85
1-4   Aide-Mémoire Post-Appraisal               Corresp. 11.14.85
2.    Institutional Framework
2-1   Decree No. 84250 of June 22, 1984.
Revised Statutes PAC                            227.455
2-2   Decree No. 84479 of December 17,
1984.Organization of Ministry of
Equipment and Transport                         227.456
2-3   Decision No. 14/PR-12 PTPT of
March 4, 1968. Organization of Cargo
Randling iu Bénin.                              227.457
2-4 Decree No. 69-80/PRIPTPT of
March 27, 1969. Creation of OBEMAP              227.458
2-5   Decree Nu. 84-375 of October 8,
1984. Revised Statutes OBEMAP                   227.459
2-6   Decree No. 0013/METIDGM of May 14,
1985. Organization of DEP.                      228.897
2-7   Arrgté No. 0021/MET/DGM of
August 12, 1985                                 228.896
3.    Feasibility Studies and Detailed
Engineering
3-1   Feasibility Study "Projet de remise
en état et d'entretien des
infrastructures portuaires". PAR -
LCHF - Louis Berger Consultants, 1985.          221.838
3-2   Feasibility Study, "Entretien des
routes en terre'. Louis Berger
Consultant 1985.                                322.045
3-3   Feasibility Study "Route Porto-Novo-
Pobé" Louis Berger Consultant 1985.             220.529(F)
3-4   Feasibility Study "Route Parakou-
Malanville" Louis Berger Consultant
1985.                                           227.460
3-5   Etude Economique de la Route Dassa-
Parakou; SEDES Consultants, 1985                223.456
3-6   Feasibility Study of Comé-Lokossa-Dogbo
by BCEOM Consultant, July 1985.                 228.498



- Iv _
Project File Code/
Ref. NO                  Document Title                  Bank Document No.
4.    Project Description and Costa
4-1   Detalled Cost Estimates for Civil
Works in Port                                  228.500
4-2   Detailed Cost Estimates for
Equipment for PAC and OBEI4P                   228.499
4-3   Terms of Reference for Technical
Assistance for Highway Maintenance
and Management                                 129.458(A)
4-4   Terms of Reference for Technical
Assistance to the Directorate of
Studies in MET                                 129.459
4-5   Terms of Reference for Technical
Assistance to PAC                              228.383
4-6   Terns of Reference for Technical
Assistance to OBEMAP                           228.384
4-7   Terms of Reference for Technical
Assistance to DROA                             228.385
4-8   Detailed Description of Training
Component and Scholarship program and
Training Needs for PAC, OBEMAP and MET         228.391
5.    Sector Management, Organization and
Finances
5-1   Road Fund Budgets, FY1982-86                   228.386
5-2   Detailed Road Maintenance Program
and Budget, FY1987-1990                        228.387
5-3   Road Maintenance Finances, FY1987-
1990                                           228.387
5-4   Transport Sector Taxation, Costs
and Cost Recovery, FY1987-1990                 227.461
5-5   Work Program and Budgets, DEP
FY1985-1990                                    228.387
5-6   Transports: Statistical Yearbook (1984)        225.325
6.    PAC and OBEMAP Management
6-1   Investment for FY1985-1990 PAC
and OBEMAP                                     228.388
6-2   Operational statistics PAC,
FY1982-1985                                    228.389
6-3   Annual Report OBEMAP FY1982                    228.390
7.    Financial Studies
7-1   PAC Detailed Financial Statements
FY1982-1984                                    228.392
7-2   OBEMAP Detailed Financial Statements
FY1982-1984                                    228.393
7-3   OCBN Financial Statements, FY1984              228.394
7-4   Detailed Financial Projections and
Supporting Documents PAC FY1985-1992           227.462
7-5   Detailed Financial Projections and
Supporting Documents OBEMAP, FY1985-1992       227.463



-v -
Project File Code!
Ref. No                  Document Title                  Bauk Document No.
8.    Economic Analysis
8-1   Port Traffic Forecaste 1985-1995            )
8-2   Detailed Coet-Benefit Analysis for
the Port Sector                             )   228.395
8-3   Detailed Coat-Benefit Analysis for          )
the Righvay Sector                          )



- vi -
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       The People's Republic of Benin
Beneficiaries:  Ministère de l'Equipement et des Transports (MET)
Port Autonome de Cotonou (PAC)
Office Béninois des Manutentions Portuaires (OBEMAP)
Project Cost:   US$70.5 million
IDA Credit:     SDR 15.2 million (US$ 19.5 million equivalent) on standard
terms.
Proposed
Financing Plan: Government - US$4.8 million equivalent
IDA - US$19.5 million equivalent on standard terms
Other financing - US$ 46.2 million equivalent.
Onlending
Terms:          Proceeds of the Credit, other than the funds for MET
(US$14.7 million), will be on-lent to PAC (US$4.8 million)
at an annual rate of interest of 8 percent, over an 18 year
térm, including a 3 year grace period. The foreign
exchange risk vill be borne by PAC.
Co-Financing:   CCCE:              2.4
tUS$ million    FAC:               1.4
equivalent)    BOAD:              6.2
ADF:              8.6
IDB:              4.6
EDF:             23.0
Total          46.2
Project
Description:    The main objectives of the project are to: (a) rehabilitate
and maintain the country's priority transport infrastructure in the port
and highway subsectors; (b) strengthen the institutions involved in road
maintenance, transport planning, port management and cargo handling; (c)
increase private sector participation in road maintenance by reducing force
account works; and (d) improve cost recovery and maintenance funding.



- vii -
To reach these objectives, the project vill consist of:
(a)   A port rehabilitation program including:
(i)   repair and rehabilitation of the old commercial
qbays, transit sheds and aprons;
(ii) protection of the South bank of the new basin;
(iii) dredging of the accese channel;
(iv) improvement of maintenance facilities of PAC and
OBEMAP; and
(v) consulting services for rehabilitation works
supervision.
(b)   A road maintenance and rehabilitation program
including:
(i)   resurfacing of 439 km of paved roads;
%'ii) rehabilitation and regravelling of about 1,000 km
of unpaved roads;
(iii)   acquisition of road maintenance equipment, spare
parts and tools for equipment maintenance;
(iv)   construction/repair of DROA facilities; and
(y)   consulting services for rehabilitation works
supervision.
(c)   An institution-strengthening program which vill include
the following elements:
(i)   technical assistance to the Directorate of Studies
and Planning (DEP) for transport sector policy
formulation;
(ii)   technical assistance to PAC and OBEMAP for
management, maintenance and operations;
(iii)   technical assistance to the Directorate of Roads
and Bridges (DROA) for the reorganization of the
road maintenance system and reorganization of the
Equipment Maintenance Division (SMTP) and
organization of the Directorate of Road Fund (DFR);
(iv)   training for PAC and OBENAP personnel;
(v)   training in road and equipment maintenance; and
(vi)   consulting services for maintenance dredging study.
(d)   A cost recovery program including:
(i)   restructured road user charges; and
(ii)   higher tariffs for port services.
Project Benefits
and riska:      The principal benefits expected from the project vill be
protection of previous investment in the sector, reduced
transport costs and increased efficiency of transport
sector institutions. The port rehabilitation component
vill avoid future high reconstruction costs. The imple-
mentation of the road maintenance component vill complete



- viii -
Benin's road rehabilitation program (started in 1981
under Credit 1142-BEN) and reduce vehicle operating co0ts
by 25 to 40% -. the sections to be included in the
project. Improvements in the effietency of transport
institutions should help to keep up the competitiveness
of the Benin route to landlocked countries (Niger,
Burkina). The main project risk is over-investment in
the transport sector. The proposed conditionality is
designed to minimize this risk. Another risk is
unsatisfactory improvement of presently poor staff pro-
ductivity in road maintenance, and of misallocation of
road maintenance funds. The Action Plan for road main-
tenance, the organization of a Road Management Unit, the
increase of maintenance works done by contract and dis-
bursement against completed work for highway maintenance
are geared toward eliminating these shortcomings. There
are no physical risks or adverse ecological effects
expected from the project.
Suumary of Project Cost Estimate:
(net of taxes and duties)
Categories                 Local      Foreign       Total
- -----(US$ndllion) …----
A. Maritime Sector
1.  Cotonou Port Rehabilitation       1.5          5.7         7.2
2.  OBEMAP                            0.1          1.6          1.7
B.  Hîghway Sector                        12.6        27.0         39.6
C.  Institution Building                   0.9         5.1          6.0
Total Base Costs                          15.1        39.4         54.5
Physical Contingencies                     2.1         4.8          6.9
Price Contingencies                        2.4         6.7          9.1
Total Project Costs                       19.6        50.9         70.5



- ix -
Financing Plan
Organization              Local       Fore          Total
----- -(US$Nlllion>      …--
IDA                                        2.7          16.8         19.5
Other Donors                               13.7         32.5         46.2
Government                                  3.2           1,6         4.8
Total                                      19.6         50.9         70.5
Estimated Disbursements s/
Bank Fiscal Year      1988      1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
- --- (US$ illion) ----
Annual                 2.1       3.7     4.5      4.1      2.8     1.5      0.8
Cumulative             2.1       5.8    10.3    14.4    17.2    18.7    19.5
Rates of Return
The estimated rates of return are as follows:
Port rehabilitation                   21 to 33% depending on component
Gravel roads regravelling             average 43%
Paved roads resurfacing
-  Parakou-Malanville,                106%
-  Porto-Novo-Pobé, and               69%
-  Comé-Zoungbonou-Lokossa-Dogbo    30%
Appraisal Report: No. 6000-BEN.
Maps: IBRD 19472R
IBRD 19473
a/ Based on regional profile for transport projecte.
WAPTR
April 1987



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
I   INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Goverument of Benin has requested the Association's asslt-
ance for a transportation project aimed at (a) the rehabilitation and main-
tenance of the country's port and highvay infrastructures; and (b) the
strengthening of the institutions involved in transport planning, road
maintenance, port management and cargo handling activities. The estimated
cost of tha Project is US$70.5 million equivalent. Of this, the Government
vill contribute US$4.8 million equivalent (about 7%). The remainder vill
be financed by IDA, US$19.5 million (28%) and by other donors, US$46.2
million  (65%).   The  Project  vill  continue  and  expand  the assistance
provided under the Cotonou Port Project (Credit No. 826), and the Third and
Fourth Highway Projects (Credits No. 746 and 1142).
1.02      The Project vill help  the Goverument  to  set up a coherent
strategy for the transportation sector, including a realistie package of
policy based measures, institutional development and sector investments and
maintenance based on agreed objectives and priorities. It will reinforce
the trend begun under previous projects towards increased attention to
maintenance of infrastructure and better utilization of assets.  It vill
also move the transportation sector towards increased liberalization and
deregulation,  leading to higher efficiency throughout the sector.   In
addition, it vill help channel co-financiers' funds and assistance towards
these worthwhile objectives.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Background
2.01      Benin ls a relatively small country (112,600 km 23 on the West
African coast between Nigeria and Togo; the population is about 3.8 mil-
lion. Nith a GNP per capita of only US$267 equïvalent in 1985, it ranks as
a  least  developed  country.   The  economy  is  predoiainantly  rural;  an
estimated 73% of the labor force is involved in agriculture, producing
mainly subsistence, loy value root crops, and contributing just under 50%
of GDP. The tertiary sector increased rapidly until 1982, but stagnated in
the recent past, partly due to the economic problems in neighboring
Nigeria. The tertiary sector employa 20% of the labor force and accounts
for 34% of GDP. The transport sector i important, particularly due to
Benin's transit role for neighboring landlocked countries.   It provides
about 18% of formal employment and accounts for about 7% of GDP.



- 2 -
B. The Transport System
2.02      The transport system is import-export orlented and fairly vell
developed.  Ite backbone is the Benin route to the North of the country and
to Niger, consistîng of the port of Cotonou, the railvay and the road from
Cotonou  to  Parakou,  and  the  Parakou-Malanville  road.   Other  routes,
notably the coastal road, eastward to Porto-Novo (the second city of Benin)
and Lagos (Nigeria), and westvard to Lomé (Togo), radiate from Cotonou (Map
IBRD 19472R).
2.03      The port of Cotonou bas traditionally been the principal entry
point for goods to and from landlocked Niger (about 297,000 tons in 1986 or
70% of Niger's international traffic) and, to a lesser extent, Mali
(18,000 tous) and Burkina (5,500 tons). In 1986, about 30% (350,000 tons)
of Cotonou port traffic was transit cargo. Total port cargo throughput,
vhich vas about 1.5 million tons in 1979, fell to 0.8 million tons in 1983,
reflecting a decline in Nigeria's transit traffic. Traffic picked up to
1.2 million tons in 1985 and remained at this level in 1986. Annex 2-1
provides data on port traffic statistics. Competition from Lomé for traffic
to Niger and Burkina is increasing. Due to its cost advantage, Cotonou has
kept its share of high volume-low value traffic, but the better quality of
service offered at Lomé attracts high value commodities to that port.
2.04      Cotonou port has 1,250 m of general cargo berths, a bulk cargo
jetty and a little-used fishing quay; total annual port capacity la about 2
million tons, of which 1 million for general cargo. Under the previous
Port Project, port operations have been improved and are nov reasonably
efficient. Annex 2-2 provides details on port facilities and Annex 2-3 on
port productivity figures. Although Cotonou port has enough capacity to
handle expected traffic for the nineties, several structures have deteri-
orated due to rust, wave action and insufficient maintenance and need to be
rehabilitated or they will hamper future port operations.  The Project
vould include a Port Rehabilitation Program to avoid further deterioration
of these structures (paras. 3.03 to 3.08).
2.05      The road network totals aboùt 7,500 km, of which 1,000 km are
paved, 4,000 km gravel and improved feeder roads, and the balance un-    2
improved earth roads and tracks.  The density of the network (0.064km/Im )
is fairly low by regional standards, but suffices for present needs. In
order to adapt maintenance standards to traffie load, roads are classified
as part of the priority network (over 50 v.p.d.) or the low-traffie network
(under 50 v.p.d.), vith lover maintenance standards. The Project essen-
tially deals vith periodic maintenance and rehabilitation of the priority
network.



- 3 -
Description of the Road Network
(in km)
Priority           Low Traffic          Total
Paved roads              986                     0              986
Gravel roads           1,300                 1,350            2,650
Feeder roads               0                 1,290            1,290
Earth tracks               0                 2,574            2,574
While the more recently constructed paved roads are generally in good con-
dition, most of the gravel roads, with the exception of those included in
IDA projects, are in poor condition duxe to lack of routine maintenance.
2.06      Road Traffic.  Road transport is the dominant mode in Benin - 75%
of all freiîht and 90% of passenger movements are by road. The traffie
density pattern is consistent vith the present extension of the network.
Traffic on feeder roads, earth roads and half of the gravel road network is
between 10 and 50 v.p.d. The traffic on the priority network varies bet-
ween 50 and 150 v.p.d. on gravel roads, and from 150 to a maxuimm of about
2000 v.p.d.  on paved roads.   In the northern provinces of Atacora and
Borgou, and to a lesser extent the Zou province, local traffic is likely to
lnerease significantly, due to recent agricultural development there. No
substantial traffic increase is expected in the southern provinces, except
on the main North-South axis for food supply to Cotonou and for transit
traffic  to  the  North.   The  envisaged  road  rehabilitation  program
(Annex 2-4) is based on official road traffic counts, carried out by the
Government in 1984. These countings will be updated under the Project to
assess the maintenance program for 1988 to 1990.
2.07      The motor vehicle fleet (excluding two-wheelers) is estimated at
approximately 25,000 vehicles of which 15,000 are private passenger cars.
Its annual growth has been 6 to 7% over the last eight years. Fleet growth
is expected to continue at the same rate.
2.08      The railway is operated by the Organisation Commune Bénin-Niger
(OCBN), a bi-national autonomous agency created by the Benin and Niger Gev-
eruments.  It manages and operates the railway up to Parakou and then moni-
tors the transhipments te and from Niger.  Most of the Benin route traffic
to Niger uses the 440 km south-north line between Cotonou and Parakou as
does the bulk of national long distance traffic. There are two little-used
coastal lines: the 107 km eastern link between Cotonou, Porto-Novo and
Pobé; and the 33 km weitern extension connecting Sègbohoué to Cotonou.
Overinvestments, stagnating traffic and late tariff adjustments caused OCBN
to accumulate financial losses since 1975. OCBN entered in March 1986 into
an agreeraent with CCCE aiming at financial rehabilitation and deferred



-4-
maintenance of tracks and rolling stock. This program is reasonable. With
the paving of the road between Dassa and Parakou, expected to be completed
by 1989-90, the railway will be fully exposed to road competition. It is
likely that a share of present railway traffic vill shift to the road to
avoid transhipment costs and delay, putting added pressure on OCBN's
finances. OCBN's investment should, therefore, be restrained to minimize
these pressures on its finances (see para. 2.28).
C. Sector Organization
2.09      General.   The transport sector  is the responsibility of the
Ministry of Equipment and Transport (MET) which is in charge of public
works, housing, urban planning and transport. Port management and cargo
handling operations are the respousibility of two autonomous public
agencies under the tutelage of MET; MET is directly responsible for road
activities through its Directorate of Roads and Bridges; the railway is
operated by OCBN, also under the tutelage of MET. Cotonou has the nation's
sole international airport, served by Air Afrique, UTA, Camair, Nigeria
Airways and Aeroflot among others. The domestic carrier, Transport Aériens
du Bénin, is under liquidation.
2.10      The Port.  The port of Cotonou is run by the Port Autonome de
Cotonou (PAC), an autonomous public agency (Statutes in the Project File,
No 2-1). PAC is responsible for pilotage and berthing of vessels and for
providing and maintaining port facilities, i.e., the berths, sheds, fen-
cing, floodlights and services. PAC vas reorganized in November 1982 under
the Cotonou Port Project. The present organization is generally satisfac-
tory  (Annex 2-5),  and  no major  changes  are  required.   Port  staffing
increased by 25% between 1982 and 1985, peaking at about 700. Whereas this
has nov receded to 660 due to attrition, the present level is still not
justified. A 5% annual reduction in total staff number is included in
PAC's Action Plan for the 1988-1992 period (Annex 2-6) which vas agreed with
PAC's management during negotiations.
2.11      Management of the port has improved over the past five years.
The overall quality of managerial staff is good by regional standards.
ilovever, the efficiency of PAC's workshop needs to be improved (para. 3.08)
and port maintenance should be strengthened through staff reassigument,
training, and the allocation of a suitable budget, supported by a satis-
factory annual vork program. During negotiations, PAC's management has
agreed to present annually to the Association a satisfactory maintenance
program and corresponding budget.
2.12      The port management information system i8 being iodernized in
stages. Over the past three years, port statistics have improved and the
financial accounting system has been computerized. The personnel adminis-
tration system has been redesigned and the basis for a training system
established. Bowever, further improvements are necessary in cost account-
ing, budgeting, training, data processing and statistics. The Project will
provide technical assistance for those purposes (para. 3.13 and Action Plan
for PAC, Annex 2-6).



2.13      Efforts to improve PAC's personnel management and upgrade employ-
ees' skills, begun under the previous Bank project vith the creation of a
training division, need to be sustained.  Further personnel training is
needed to address deficiencies in personnel management, departmental ma-
nagement, and in various technical areas, mainly equipment maintenance,
data processing and computer use, port pricing, auditing, and hydrography.
Training materials and documentation are also required. Provisions of the
Project to address these needs are detailed ln paragraph 3.14.
2.14      Cargo Handling.  Cargo handling and stevedoring are run by an-
other autonomous publi<. agency, the Office Béninois de Manutention Portu-
aire (OBEMAP) (Statutes and cargo handling organization in the Project
File No. 2-3; 2-4; and 2-5). OBEMAP's organization vas revised in 1982
(Annex 2-7) vith the creation of a department for training and a Direct-
orate of Finance, nov both fully operational. But full development of the
new organization vas hampered by repeated upper management changes since
1981.  The present team vas appointed in 1984 to improve productivity and
finances and has already taken poFitive and courageous measures in this
direction.   Staffing (about  1,700) vas vell in excess of needs until
February 1985, mainly in administrative departments and because of the
hiring of permanent stevedores. The new management has reduced staff to
about 1,370. Some 3,500 stevedores are nov on temporary contracts. Labor
is still in excess of needs and the permanent staff should be reduced. In
the 1988-1991 period, staff numbers should be further reduced by 5% per
annum. This iS part of OBEMAP's Action Plan which vas agreed at negotia-
tions (Annex 2-8). This Action Plan vill be the guideline for the Benin
Government vhen negotiating vith CCCE and FAC which are fînancing this
component.
2.15      As vith PAC, a training division vas created in OBEMAP under the
previous project.  About fifteen instructors vere trained but since the
departure of the technical assistance, the activities of the training
division have been very limited.  It has insufficient facilities and no
training aide. Further effort is required in the administrative, finan-
cial, equipment maintenance and technical areas (para. 3.14).
2.16      OBEMAP's financial situation needs drastic corrective measures
(para. 5.06). Under the previous Port Project OBEMAP's management inform-
ation system for financial accounting, personnel administration and train-
ing vas modernized.  Further improvement is needed regarding operational
atatistics, equipment management and financial and cost accounting. Tech-
nical assistance for those purposes is included in the Project (para.3.13
and Action Plan, Annex 2-8>.
2.17      Shipping.  The national shipping line, COBENAM (Compagnie Béni-
noise de Navigation Maritime) carries about 10% of the total international
traffic and 45% of the liner traffie loaded and unloaded at the port of
Cotonou. COBENAM operates its own 4,400 dvt ship and charter vessels.
Faced vith increasing deficits, the company has decided to sell its
obsolete ship and considered replacing it by a larger vessel to operate on
a broader level under an agreement vith other ship owners of the region.
Under the PESP, the Association reviewed the issue and agreed vith the
Government that, ln view of the risks involved, a feasibility study of the
proposed strategy be done prior to the decision to buy a replacement ship.



-6 -
2.18      Freight Forwarding.  Two state enterprises, SONATRAC and SOTRACOB
until recently shared about 20% of the freight forwarding activity, vith
the remaining 80% taken by the Niger parastatal company NITRA for the
transit to Niger and by public and private importera doing their own
account operations in Benin. The state enterprises vere debt ridden and
very inefficient. As agreed under the PESP, the Government has liquidated
the SONATRAC and SOTRACOB. This is a major step toward liberalization of
the transport chain advocated by the Association.
2.19      Roads.  Until recently, NET administered roads at the central
level through its Directorate of Roads and Bridges (DROA) and at the
regional level through six provincial Directorates of Equipment and
Transport (DPET). The major shortcoming of this organization is the lack
of coordination between DROA and the DPETs. In addition, the DPETs which
are responsible for road maintenance execution as vell as housing, water
supply, and urbanization, have shown little interest in routine maintenance
of roada.  This, combined with the lack of efficiency incentives, and
preventive maintenance of equipment, led to low productivity, low equipment
use and often inappropriate use of the equipment by regional authorities.
The Government has agreed to reorganize the road administration to remedy
these shortcomings by introducing strong centralized control, efficiency
lncentives, and cost-based equipment tariffs (cf. Arrêté No. 0021 MET/DGM
August 12, 1985 - Project File Document No. 2-7). The new organization
(Annex 2-9) gives DROA the full responsibility for road maintenance plan-
ning, execution and monitoring, including equipment use. To establish a
routine maintenance structure on a permanent basis, six Provincial Roads
and Bridges Units (SPROAs) have been created at the regional levels under
DROA responsibility. These SPROAs vill control several gangs of laborers,
each gang in charge of the maintenance of a specific section of the
network, throughout the country.  A nev service of equipment (SMTP) has
also been created under DROA to handle equipment purchases, management and
dispatching according to the work program planned.   The SMTP is to be
financially autonomous, earning revenue by hiring out equipment to the
SPROAs and other clients.
2.20      In the past, only the periodic maintenance of paved roads vas
carried out by contract while all routine maintenance and all regravelling
works vere doue by force account with unsatisfactory results mainly due to
low availability of equipment, lack of staff motivation and misallocation
of resources. Under the Project, emphasis vill be put on improving road
maintenance execution by increasing the amount of works done by contract to
at least 25% of routine and 50% of periodic maintenance vorks by 1988, with
the objective of having 100% of periodic maintenance and 50% of routine
maintenance done by contract by the end of the Project.  The remaining
works will be done by force account on a declining basis, field supervision
of works will be strengthened and an incentive system vill be introduced.
All these targets are detailed in the Action Plan for road maintenance and
for the Road Nanagement Unit (Annex 2-10) which have been confirmed during
negotiations.
2.21      DROA employs about 1,150 staff, of whom about 150 in SMTP.  In
addition, about 1,750 skilled personnel and laborers are assigned to the
Feeder Roads Division.   A training center (CFR) vas created under the



-7-
Pourth H thway Project and a civil engineer has recently been assigned to
head it. Under the same project, 11 mechanies instructors vere trained by
the technical assistance team, project facilities vere built and training
aide and materials were purchased or produced. However, personnel manage-
ment and employees' skills still need improvement and the responsibilities
of the training unit should be widened so it can effectively manage MET's
training activities. The training program for DROA included in the Project
(para. 3.14) will address deficiencies in: (a) personnel management and
training; (b) road maintenance management (including cost accountlng); and
(c) equipment management systems.  This is needed because in the next five
years about 20% of DROA personnel (Feeder Roads personnel excluded) vill
retire and about 300 new positions will be created for mid-level super-
visors and skilled mechanics, and because existing mid-level supervisors
are new graduates with limited experience.
2.22      Domestic Construction Industry.  At present, there are few pri-
vate domestic road contractors in Benin. In recent yeare, they have been
appointed as sub-contractors by foreign enterprises which lease the equip-
ment to them, mainly for bridge and culvert construction but also for pave-
ment repairs during guarantee periods. The performance of these contrac-
tors is generally satisfactory.  The small contractors, although techni-
cally competent, lack the financial means to acquire equipment. The recent
reorganization of SMTP vill give domestic contractors the opportunity to
hire equipment from the road administration In order to bid for works.  The
Project vill also seek to organize competent retired DROA laborers to carry
out routine maintenance works by contract.
D. Sector Planning and Road Financing
Sector Planning
2.23      Sector planning is the overali responsibility of MET  but is
split between the technical Directorates or autonomous agencies by area of
responsibility and the Directorate of Studies (DEP) which is responsible
for general planning, policy matters, and supervision of public enter-
prises. DEP has not been able to meet its responsibilities due to repeated
reorga1izations, insufficient budget, high staff turnover and inability to
retain qualified staff.  It has been agreed during negotiations that the
Government Transport Sector expenditures plan vill be presented annually to
the Association for agreement.
2.24      The 8trengthening of DEP vas initiated under a PPF for the
Project under which DEP would: (a) develop a system of management by
objectives linked to apecific targets, in light of which its annual vork
program vill be established and its performance evaluated; (b) receive an
annual budget sufficient to cover acquisition and operation of needed
equipment; (c) prepare and implement a training program for its best per-
forming staff. Implementation of this program, which ls detailed in the
Action Plan for DEP (Annex 2-11), vill also be supported by the Project.
During negotiations, the Government confirmed the Action Plan for DEP.
2.25      The port investment plan for 1988-1992 comprises priority and
subsidiary programs (Annex 2-12).  The priority program includes rehab-



-8 -
ilitatipn operations amounting to about CFAF 3 billion included in the
Project  (para.  3.03).   All these operations are economically justified
(para. 4.01). The subsidiary program comprises operations which are sub-
ject to further studies and/or economic justification. Its main components
are: (a) the construction of a common workshop for PAC and OBENAP (for CFAF
2 billion) and (b) the extension of the fishing port (CFAF 5 billion). To
avoid unjustified investments, PAC agreed during negotiations to present
its iivestment and expenditure plan annually to the Association for
agreement, and to seek the Association's agreement for any capital invest-
ment not included in the annual plan and in excess of CFAF 200 million.
2.26      OBEMAP's investment plan is geared to repair of cargo handling
equipment, and also includes an operational and administrative building,
and purchase of new equipment (Annex 2-13). OBEMAP should give priority to
strengthening its maintenance capabilities, which is supported under the
Project.
2.27      The Road expenditures plan for the FT 1988-93 period comprI.ses
the ongoing Four-h Highway Project, the Third Feeder Roads Project, the
paving of the Dassa-Parakou road and the Transport Infrastructure Rehabili-
tation and Maintenance Project.   For changes in present plans, it has been
agreed during negotiations that the Government seek the Association's
agreement for any capital investment not included in the annual plan in
excess of CFAF 200 million. Concerning the link to the North-West of the
country and Burkina , it vas agreed at negotiations that, instead of the
ambitious Savalou-Djougou-Natitingou-Porga paving project which is not
justified in its entirety, upgrading of a shorter route Parakou-Djougou-
Natitingou-Porga could commence during the Project period. Hovever, it vas
also agreed that during the execution of the Project, the paving works of
the Parakou-Djougou-Natitingou-Porga road vill only concern the Parakou-
Djougou and Djougou-Natitingou sections and vill be carried out at design
standards and at costs acceptable to the Association, in order to ensure an
economic rate of return of at least 8% for each of the two sections and
provided that the f inancing required for this investment be obtained on
concessional terms and in addition to those reserved for the identified
road rehabilitations.
2.28      Railway investment plan.  Major investments are envisaged for
ballasting the Savé-Parakou section. Given current and projected traffic,
and folloving the decision by Government to pave the road between Dassa and
Parakou, those investments are not justified. As Government policy tovards
the railway has a major impact on the economic justification of the road,
the railway investment plan should be geared to maintaining an acceptable
level of services until the road is paved, exclusive of major ballasting
works. The Government has agreed during negotiations to seek Association
agreement for any capital investment not included in the annual plan and in
excess of CFAF 500 million.
Road Financing
2.29      Road  maintenance  cost  recovery.   Required  expenditures  for
routine and periodic maintenance under the Project are estimated at
CFAF 4.1 billion in 1988. The user charges are equivalent to CFAF 6.5



- 9 -
billion pnd derive mainly from fuel taxation  (CFAF 5.4 billion);  other
revenues come f rom customs duties on vehicles and spare parts, annual
vehicle registration taxes, and a specific taxation of agricultural
producte (see Annex 2-10). The cost recovery on road users 1s therefore
satisfactory and expected to remain s0 throughout project implementation.
2.30      Road Maintenance Funding.  Road maintenance is funded locally by
the Direction du Fonds Routier (DFR), an autonomous public agency created
in 1984 and by foreign financing agencies and donors who provide most funds
needed  for periodic  maintenance.   The  1987 DFR budget  includes  total
expenditures of CFAh 1.7 billion, roughly equivalent to what the local
financing needs for road maintenance, but about 25% of this budget is
diverted to other uses leaving insufficient funds for maintenance. This is
aggravated by Government usually releasing no more than 60% of the CFAF 800
million subsidy it pledges each year to the DFR budget, as a complement to
the other DFR revenues from earmarked fuel taxes (CFAF 8 and 6 per liter
respectively for gas and oil) and from other minor sources.  T  -ficient
use of funds is another problem.  To remedy the situation, the k<tion Plan
for Road Maintenance which vas agreed at negotiations (An nex 2-10) includes
the Governuent:
<a)   atreamlining  budgeting  and  strengthening  the  financial
controls over road maintenance spending to prevent funds
being used for non-related purposes;
(b)   increasing as of January 1, 1988 the earmarking of fuel
taxes by CFA? 8 per liter for both gas and gas-oil so that
a regular flow of resources is substituted for the
Goverument subsidy;
(c)   limiting the intervention of the DFR to supplies of equip-
ment, tools and materials for road maintenance, salaries
for temporary labor, incentives and bonuses exclusively for
staff involved in road maintenance activities; and
(d)   financing from 1989 onward 100% of routine maintenance, 30%
and 10% of periodic maintenance respectively for earth and
paved roads, foreign financing agencies providing the
balance.



- 10-
E. Sector Policy
2.31      During the 1976-1980 period, the Governient's policy was to in-
crease direct or indirect control over transport activities, but the
expected  improvements  failed  to  materialize.   Neighboring  countries
expressed their dissatisfaction by increasingly using alternative inter-
national transit routes. Since 1980, the Government has embarked upon a
slow deregulation process, permitting independent operators to carry out
some cargo handling operations, softening OCBN's monopoly on transport
between Cotonou and Parakou (in particular for food aid to Niger) and sup-
pressing the public monopoly on freight forwarding.
2.32      The Government is building up a Freight Bureau as a public agency
to regulate freight allocation for trucking. The objective is to ensure
that a fair price is paid for transport services, and to develop a data
bank which would help improve the management of the subsector, seeking in
particular reduction of empty hauls.  Given its recent creation, it is
still uncertain whether or not the freight bureau could actually meet this
objective, and a close monitoring of its activity vill be needed under the
Project because of the obvious risk that the bureau may cause administra-
tion costs without improving efficiency. Improvements in efficiency in
the sector, particularly on the Benin route, are expected from: (a) the
recent admission of the private sector to the market for freight forvard-
ing; and (b) reorganization of OBEMAP under the Project, including
financial restructuring accompanied by staff reductions.  At negotiations,
the Government agreed to evaluate the Freight Bureau'8 freight allocation
efficiency by December 1988 to decide whatever further reform is needed.
F. IDA Involvement in the Sector
2.33      The Association's involvement in the sector dates from 1970.  To
date, four highway projects, three feeder road projects and one port proj-
ect have been approved for a total lnvestment of US$71.1 million (US$43.6
million, highways; US$16.5 million, feeder roads; US$11.0 million, ports).
These projects are briefly described in Annex 2-14. The main lessons drawn
from the execution of earlier projects are the following: (a) all
re-eveluated valued projects yielded satisfactory ERRs, most of them above
the dppraisal estimates; (b) work execution was generally satisfactory
particularly the feeder roads projects which were among the most successful
in the region; and institution building and technical assistance were
particularly  successful for port  and  feeder roads projects, but  less
successful for highvay maintenance.
2.34      Bank Group lending la oriented to the folloving priorities: (a)
maintaining and rehabilitating the existing transport infrastructure; (b)
increasing the efficiency of transit traffic, to facilitate access at the
least cost to and from landlocked countries and develop profitable transit
activity in Benin; and (c) avoiding costly excess transport capacity on the
Benin route through coordinating rail and road investment.



- il -
III. TUE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01      The Project objectives are:
(a)   to protect past investments in: (i) the port subsector, by
carrying out urgent dredging and repairs to infrastructure;
and (il) the road subsector, by pursuing the establishment
of a routine and periodic maintenance capacity and by cre-
ating conditions which vill assure adequate funding for
road maintenance in the future;
(b)   to further increase the port system productivity by modern-
izing equipment maintenance facilities, and improving PAC
and OBEMAP management;
(c)   to build-up MET's cajacity to: (i) manage and plan the road
sector; (ii) supervise transport sector studies, and future
project preparation; and (ili) manage and train its
personnel;
(d)   to increase private sector participation in road mainte-
nance by reducing force account works; and
(e)   to improve cost recovery and maintenance funding.
B. Project Description
3.02      To achieve these objectives,  the Project vill finance civil
works, equipment, spare parts, fuel, construction materials, vages and
incentives, consulting services, technical assistance and training for
implementation of the folloving three components: (a) a port rehabilitation
program; (b) a road maintenance and rehabilitation program; and (c) an Ins-
titution building program as described belowv
Port Rehabilitation Program
3.03      Eastern Breakwater and Old Quays.  The eastern breakwater and the
old deep vater quays are made of steel sheet piles vithout cathodic protec-
tion and are corroding. Although overall stability of the structures is
not threatened in the short term, remedies are required nov to prevent
further corrosion which vould hamper their use. To prevent this, it is
proposed to install cathodic protection on the sheet pile valls and protect
them vith concrete above vater. At the root of the eastern breakwater,
vhere numerous holes have developed, a secondary sheet pile vall vill alo
be built in addition to concrete protection and rubblemound reshaping.
3.04      The front of the deep vater quays has been damaged due to an in-
adequate fendering system.  To repair the damage and prevent more, tehabi-
litation af the front of the quay and provision of a new fendering system
and ladders are included in the Project.



- 12 -
3.05      Transit Sheds and Aprons.  As very little maintenance has been
carried out over the years, the condition of the old transit sheds and
aprons has deteriorated snd derailments vithin the port area are frequent.
Shed roofs and structures are rusty, wharf surfaces cracked and uneven from
localized settlement, and the condition of the railvay tracke and turnouts
poor. The Project includes rehabilitation of transit sheds encompassing
roofs, structures and ancillary vorks, and of aprons consisting of repair-
ing pavements and storm drainage systen, and spot repairing railway tracks.
3.06      South Bank of the New Basin.  The south bank of the nev basin is
eroding slightly from residuai wave 'action.  The erosion is threatening a
power line supplying navigation aids and the access road to the cut-off
breakwater.  Moreover, the erosion on the bank results in slow accretion at
the western end of the basin. If this accretion procese continues, costly
maintenance dredging may be needed. Under the Project, a series of small
groins to protect the south bank against erosion vill be built, which
reduce accretion at the western end of the basin. It is also proposed to
strengthen the crest of the cut-off breakwater to improve access for main-
tenance purposes.
3.07      Dredging.   The  Project  vill  include  dredging of  the acceas
channel which has silted Ap since the last dredging vorks in 1979. Surveys
done in 1982 show sedimients amounting to 3.5 a in the sand trap and 1-2 m
in the access channel. A newo survey performed in 1984 shows available
depths of 10.5-12.0 m in the channel and 12.0-12.5 m in the sand trap;
these compare to design depths of 12.5 m in the channel and 14.5-16.5 m in
the sand trap. Large vessels cannot sail safely into the channel since the
reduced depth makes pilotage difficult. A volume of about 250,000 ms of
soft soil should be dredged to provide the desigued depths in the channel.
Studies are needed, however, to determine future maintenance dredging
policy and the optimal timing and scale of the next dredging operation.
The Project includes the study of future maintenance dredging policy
(para. 3.13).
3.08      PAC Maintenance Facilities.  PAC has little preventive mainte-
nance equipment and there i  a backlog of maintenance.  This backlog vili
be eliminated under the Project but improvement as vell as rehabilitation
of maintenance facilities and equipment i alse needed. The Project vill
therefore include the acquisition of vorkshop equipment, tools and mobile
equipment for painting, velding and repairing pot holes.   It vill  also
include rehabilitatlon of the ship repairing facilities which are used to
maintain tugboats and service crafts.
3.09      OBENAP Maintenance Facilities.  OBEKAP's cargo-handling equipment
is inadequately maintained due to insufficient vorkshop space, inappropri-
ate maintenance equipment, and lack of spares. As a result, equipment
availability is below 70% and operations are hampered during peak periods.
The Project vill include extension of vorkshop space and provision of
maintenance equipment and spare parts to improve OBEMAP's cargo handling
equipment avallability.



- 13 -
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
3.10      Resurfacing and/or rehabilitation of paved roads vill be done on:
(a) the Parakou-Malanville road (317 km), a major section of the Benin-
Niger route, built as a one-lane road in 1956, upgraded to two lanes in
1974, and noW needing complete resurfacing on its whole length and some
limited rehabilitation vorks; (b) the Porto-Novo-Pobé section (61 km), a
road leading to the Onigbolo cement plant and Nigerian border; and (c) the
Comé-Zoungbonou-Lokossa-Dogbo Section (61 km) which is severely deterio-
rated. The program for unyaved roads encompasses: (a) the rehabilitation
of 409 km of the main heavîly trafficked gravel roads which need urgent
repairs; and (b) the regravelling of 593 km of the unpaved netvork to eli-
minate the backlog in unpavei network periodic maintenance.
Institution Building
3.11      The institution building program vill include consulting ser-
vices, technical assistance, training, and the twinning of DROA and DEP
with similar agencies sharling their concerns in a more advanced country.
Apart from assisting in project implementation, this program aims at build-
ing up Beninese capability to sustain the Project benrefits and particularly
to properly operate and maintain existing assets. Terns of reference for
consulting services and technical assistance have been agreed during
negotiations. The program is described in more detail below.
3.12      Consulting Services.  Consultants have been carrying out project
preparation and detailed eng4neering studies f inanced under two PPFs. The
Project vill provide consulting services for a maintenance dredging study
and supervision of civil vorks. A cut-off breakwater, built under the
first port project, vas expected to prevent sand from accumulating in the
entrance channel to Cotonou Port but the channel and the sand trap have
filled up faster than anticipated. Dredging included în the Project will
remedy the immediate situation (para. 3.07) but maintenance dredging vill
be needed in the future.   The technical and economic aspects of mainte-
nance dredging and its financial impact on PAC's maintenance budget need
study and the Project will provide 6 man-months of consulting services plus
site investigations and laboratory tests to determine the economically and
technically optimal maintenance dredging policy. The supervision of civil
works in the port vill require 30 man-months and supervision in the highway
subsector, 26 man-months for: (i) gravel roads rehabilitation by contract;
and (ii) periodic inspection of the gravel roads force account works.
3.13      Technical assistance.  The Project vill finance a transport eco-
nomist for six man-months to assist DEP in preparing and supervising its
annual vork program and to advise on ongoing studies which need strengthen-
ing. A total of 45 man-months of technical assistance will be provided to
PAC for: (i) the improvement of its management system (21 man-months),
(ii) development of îts maintenance capacity (12 man-months), (iii) estab-
lishment of operational statistics (6 man-months); and (iv) strengthening
its economic and financial planning function  (6 man-months).   Techuical
assistance vill also be provided to OBEMAP as a follow-up of the assistance
provided under Credit 826-BEN which broadly met its objectives. Improve-
ments are needed in operational statistics, co0t accounting, organization



- 14 -
of training and personnel administration.  The Project vill include 15 man-
monthe of technical assistance to enable OBEMAP to make these improvements.
Technical assistance is needed to modernize the vorkshops and improve
equipment maintenance. The Project vill include 13 man-months of technical
assistance to inspect vorkshop equipment, imaprove ways to maintain
equipment and assist OBEMAP implement the improvements. Technical assist-
ance vill be made available to DROA, SMTP and the SPROAs and DFR to support
the road maintenance reorganization (para. 2.19).  The emphasis  will be on
a comprehensive program of technical assistance to improve all elements of
the road sub-sector's organization in a coordinated way. Technical assist-
ance provided under the Project will be teamed with qualified local counter-
parts to be jointly accountable for the tasks of their respective units.
For this purpose, the Project vill provide:
(a)   80 man-months to improve road manageient, and to help the
SPROAs create and organize regional subdivisions and main-
tenance gangs on a permanent basis;
(b)   80 man-months to improve SMTP's management, the producti-
vity of the Central Workshop and its regional annexes and
to strengthen the newly created inspection unit; and
(c)   20 man-months to improve the management of the Road Fund
and to help create a unit of internal audit.
3.14      Training.  Training needs have been identified for PAC, OBEMAP,
DROA and DEP. Training programs to be implemented locally vill be executed
by PAC's training unit and DROA's training center and fullest use vill be
made of other existing vocational and technical institutions and facili-
ties. For PAC and OBEMAP the Project will finance: (a) 5 and 8 man-montho
respectively of technical assistance for short duration missions of a human
resources planning and development specialist to prepare, tutor and monitor
a work program for implementation by local staff responsible for personnel
management and training; (b) fellovships; and (c) training aide. For DROA
and DEP the Project will finance (a) 36 man-months of technical assistance
in four stays of declining duration during project implementation. The
role of the specialist vill change from operational to advisory by the end
of the Project; (b) fez.lovships (Project File 4-7); (c) the cost of
twinning DROA and DEP with comparable Francophone institutions; and (d)
training aide. Seuinars vill also be organized for high level staff from
MET and the Ministry of Planning responsible for human resources planning
and development.
3.15      Twinning.  Twinning arrangements are starting to develop between
the Beninese Ministry of Transport and comparable institutions of the
French Ministry of Transport.  These arrangements vill aim to establish a
permanent framework for the institutional development of MET. Particular
emphasis will. be put on: (a) the elaboration and use of managerial tools,
(b) road maintenance management and techniques, and (c) on staff training.
IDA velcomes this initiative and vill finance costs of fellowships and
short-term missions of expatriate experts concerning twinning related acti-
vities.



- 15 -
C. Project Cost and Financing
Project Costa
3.16      The total cost of the Project, net of taxes and duties, îs esti-
mated at U1S$70.5 million equivalent.  Estimated costs of each project com-
ponent are given in the Project Summary vith details provided in Annex 3-1.
The estimated foreign cost component is about US$50.9 million equivalent,
representing 72% of total costa. Cost estimates are in January 1987 prices
and are based on final engineering for civil works, and on a prellminary
equipment  list  and  consultants'  estimate  for  equipment  needs.   Cost
estimates vere discussed and agreed with the Gover ment during negotia-
tions. Allowances of 5% on equipment, 10% on repait vorks in the port and
15% on other civil works and dredging were made for physical contingencles.
Co0t have been estimated at the exchange rate of US$1-CFAF 314. Price con-
tingencies for both foreign and local costs are based on estimates of
international inflation as follows: 9.6% in 1987, 4.3% each year from 1988
to 1990 and 2% from 1991 onvards. This assumes that any persistent diver-
gence in foreign and local rates of inflation will be corrected by exchange
rate adjustments.
Financing Plan
3.17      Financing by the Association and other donors vill cover 93% of
estimated foreign cost, or US$65.7 million equivalent, snd 83% of estimated
local costs or US$16.4 million equivalent. The Goverument together with
PAC will finance 16% of estimated local costs for a total of US$3.2 million
equivalent, and 3% of the estimated foreign costs or US$1.6 million equiva-
lent.  The IDA credit of US$19.5 million will be supplemented by other
donors, including ADF, BÔAD, CCCE, EDF, FAC, and IDB which confirmed their
interest in the Project at the donors' round table held in Cotonou ln
Match 1987. Cofinancing arrangements vere confirmed during negotiations.
The financing plan is included ir the Project Summary vith details provided
in Annex 3-2. It was agreed during negotiations that a condition of credit
effectiveness, conditions for effectiveness of the co-financing agreements
with BOAD, EDF and IDB must have been fulfilled.
On-Lending Arrangements
3.18      The Government vill on-lend Credit proceeds to PAC for its com-
ponent at 8% interest with a repayment period of 18 years including 3 years
of grace. The foreign exchange risk will be borne by PAC. The Government
has confirmed these arrangements at negotiations.   Signature of the on-
lending agreement between the Goverument and PAC is made a condition of
credit effectiveness.
D. Project Implementation and Present Status
3.19      Implementation of the Project will be the responsibility of MET
through DROA for the highvay component and related institution building,
through DEP for its own strengthening, through FAC for the port component
of the Project, and through OBEMAP for cargo handling related components.
MET and PAC vill be assisted by consultants for the supervision of civil



- 16 -
works to be carrled out by contractors. The detailed design is completed
and preparation of tender documents is being finalized. Project implemen-
tation la expected to start in late 1987 and to be completed by December
1993. Annex 3-3 presents the proposed implementation achedule which vas
confirmed at negotiations.
E. Procurement
3.20      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below and
detailed in the following pazagraphs.
3.21      Cîvil Works.  The repair works to the old commercial quays which
involve a specific technique for cathodic protection, will be financed by
co-donors according to their procurement procedures.  Repair to the eastern
breakwater, protection of the south bank and dredging of the channel, and
the civil works on paved roade, will be procured by international competi-
tive bidding (ICB) lu accqrdance with the Association's guidelines. No
preference vill be granted to domestic contractors for vorks procured by
ICB since they require specialized equipment and orders are expected to go
to foreign bidders.   Repairs  to aprons,  railvay tracks, building and
vorkshop repaire, and routine and periodie gravel road maintenance vorks
not done by force account vill be procured through local competitive
bidding procedures in which foreign bidders are eligible to participate.
In addition, part of the road regravellîng program equivalent to about
US$ 3.6 million will be carried out by force account under specific
supervision conditions.
3.22      Equipment, tools and spare parts contracte exceeding US$100,000
vill be purchased under ICB, while those which are expected te be less than
US$100,000 (the total aggregate not exceeding US$1 million) vill be pur-
chased through LCB In which foreign suppliers are eligible to participate,
or for items less than US$20,O00 (the total aggregate not exceeding US$0.6
million) by international shopping vith at least three quotations, except
for spares that wust come from the original manufacturer.
3.23      Consulting Services and Technical Assistance vill be proecured in
accordance vith IDA guidelines.
3.24      All procurement decisions estimated to exceed US$100,000 will be
subject to IDA's prior review. Other contracts vill be subject to select-
ive post avard review. For local bidding procedures to be satisfactory
to the As9ocia ;ion,  the Government has agreed to:  (a) use the 'Appel
d'Offres" system and not the "adjudication" system, vith advertising and
proper pre-qualification when necessary; (b) avoid cumbersome registration
and approval procedures for foreign contractors and importers to be eli-
gîble to participate; ànd (c) use evaluation procedures and criteria satis-
factory  to  IDA.   During  negotiations,  Government  has  confirmed  the
application of these procurement methods.



- 17-
Amounts and 'ethods of Procurement
(lS$million)
Procurement Method   a/      Other            l'otal
ICB      LCB      Other       Donors -           CTot
Port Sub-Sector (PAC, OBEMAP)
Repair to Old Commercial Quays,
Apron and Railway Tracks                                        3.0              3.0
Repair Eastern Breakwater                                         2.9              2.9
Dredging, South Bank              1.8                                              1 8
(1.7)                                            (1.7>
Sheds and Workshops                        0.5                    0.8              1.3
(0.4)                                   (0.4)
Equipment and Spares                       0.1        0.2*        1.2              1.5
(0.1)     (0.2)                         (0.3)
Consulting Services, Technical                        2.1         0.7              2.8
Assistance, and Training       -         -         (2.1)                        (2.13
Sub-Total                   1.8       0.6       2.3          8.6             13.3
(1.7)    (0.5)      (2.3)        0.0             (4.5)
Righvay Sub-Sector
Civil Works on                                                   31.8             31.8
Paved Roads
Civil Works on                    1.4                 3.5         5.2             10.1
Gravel Roads                   (1.2)               (3.2)                        (4.4)
Building and Workshop                      1.0                                     1.0
Repair                                  (0.8)                                   (0.8)
Equipment                        5.6                  0.4*        1.8              7.8
(4.1)               (0.3)                        (4.4)
Consulting Services, Technical
Assistance, Twinning and                            3.8         1.1              4.9
Training                                           (3.8)                        (3.8)
Sub-total                   7.0       1.0       7.7         39.9             55.6
(5.3)    (0.8)      (7.3)                       (13.4)
Directorate of Studies
Equipment                                  0.3                                     0.3
(0.3)                                   (0.3>
Consulting Services, Technical                        0.3                          0.3
Assistance and Training         -                  (0.3)                        (0.3)
Sub-Total                             0.3       0.3                           0.6
(0.3)     (0.3)                         (0.6)
Project Preparation Facility                          1.0                           1.0
-10                          (1.0)
Total Project Cost           8.8       1.9      11.3         48.5             70.5
(7.0)    (1.6)    (10.9)                        (19.5)
a/ Amounts financed by IDA are in parentheses.
b/ Amounts financed by other donors vill be procured according to their
respective procurement procedures.



18 -
Y. Diabursement
3.25      The IDA Credit vill be disbursed as follovw:
of
Amount of Credit    EXpenditures
Items                         Allocated       To Be Financed
A. PAC
1. Civil Works                                1.6                90
2. Maintenance Equipment, Office              0.2               100
and Training Equipment
3. Consulting Services for Vorke              1.7               100
Supervision, Audit, Techuical
Assistance, Training & Fellovships
B. DROA
1. Civil Vorks for Road Rehabili-             3.4                90
tation 6 Maintenance by Contract
and by for accouant (ineluding
purchase of fuel and materials)
2. Road Maintenance Equipment,                3.5               100
Vorkshop Equipuent, Spare
Parts and Toole
3. Consulting Services for Vorke              3.0                90
Supervision, Audit, Technical
Assistance, Twinning, Fellow-
shipe and Training
4. Building and Workshop Repair               0.6                80
C.  DEP
1. Office Equipuent                           0.2               100
2. Technical Assistance, Trainins,            0.2                90
Fellowships and Twinning
D.  Reimbursement PPF AdvaÙced                    1.0           Amount due
E.  Unallocated                                   4.1
Total                                  19.5
3.26      In line vith the disbursement profile for transport projecte in
West Africa, the Credit is expected to be fully disbursed by March 1994: an
estimated schedule of diabursements ie given in Annex 3-4.
3.27      Disbursement of the IDA Credit vill be fully documented except
for civil varke carried out under force account, training and fellowship
and for contracte valued at less than US$20,000 which will be disbursed
against statements of expenditures (SOEs). The supporting documentation
vill be beld at PAC and DROA for review by IDA supervision missions and
external auditors.  In order to expedite disbursements, the Governuent will
open one special account (revolvlng fund) in the Cotonou branch of the



- 19 -
Central Bank for Western African Countries in the name of Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement (CAA) in the amount of US$600,000 equivalent representing
about 4 months expenditures for IDA's contributions to project financing.
This account  should be dperated by CAA.   All payments of legs  than
US$20,000 equivalent will be financed from the Special Account.  No direct
payments request under the equivalent of US$20,000 vill be accepted by IDA.
The special account vill be replenished on a monthly basis or vhen the
special account te reduced by a third, whichever comes first.  The opeulng
of a project accouat in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA to cover the
Government's contribution to the Project with an initial deposit of CFAF 50
million,  is made  a  condition  of  credit  effectiveness.   In addition,
Government vill deposit before the beginning of eaëh quarter of the fiscal
year, its contribution towards expenditures of the Project during such
quarter. The format of SOEs, establishment and operation of the special
accounts and project account and other disbursement procedures and, in par-
ticular, application of methode and format to be used in carrying out and
paying for force account maintenance vorks, have been agreed upon at
negotiations.
G. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
3.28      Budget type accounts are kept by MET whereas PAC and OBEMAP's
accounting ist in a standard commercial form, based on the recently
developed National Accounting Plan. The shortage of qualified accountants
has been the major constraint in trying to improve bookkeeping, budgeting
and budgetary control as vell as the development of a modern management
information system (MIS) of public enterprises. The National Center for
Training of Accountants (CENAFOC) vas established in 1981 to address the
issue vith support from the Association through the Technical Assistance
Project for Planning and Economic Management (Credit 1530-BEN). Technical
assistance under the proposed Project is designed to strengthen financial
aecounting at OBEMAP and expand cost accounting systems both at PAC and
OBEMAP (para 3.13).
3.29      During  negotiations  the  Government  confirmed  that  project
accounts kept by MET. and financial statements of PAC and QBEMAP and SOEs
vill be reviewed annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
Reports of such audits vill be transmitted to IDA vithin six months after
the end of each fiscal year. The cost of audits of MET's project accounts
and of SOEs vill be financed by the Credit.
3.30      During negotiations the Government confirmed that PAC, OBEMAP,
DEF and DROA vill submit: (a) quarterly reports to the Association on
project implementation and expenditures; and (b) a final report on the
implementation experience and project achievements vithin six monthe of the
Credit closing date.   Detailed reporting requirements  for the highvay
subsector are shown in Annex 3-5. PAC and OBEKAP vill also submit reports
on a semi-annual basis on the following: (a) equipment operation and main-
tenance (availability and costs); (b) civil vorks maintenance coste (budget
and actual); (c) general and bulk cargo, Ro/Ro containers and grain move-
ments; and (d) berth utilization, ship vaiting time and port productivity
indicators.



- 20 -
R. Enviromuentai Aspects
3.31      The Project vill have only a minor impact on the enviroument sud
no adverse ecological effect la expected. The material to be dredged în
the channel vill be dumped and disposed of east of the port area to avoid
auch effecte.  Since the littoral drift te etrong along the coast of Benin,
no significant disturbance to marine ecology ln the vicluity of the port
nor permanent aggravation of the already occurring coastal erosion are
expected to result from the Project.  Moreover, the proposed repaire to
sheds, pavement and railvay tracks vill make the port vorking envîronment
considerably safer than it te nov.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
4.01      The amounts snd choices of Lnvestments proposed under the Project
are economically justified, snd provide a satisfactory balance between ca-
pital investment and maintenance cost over the 1987-1992 period.   The
economic evaluations are given respectively ln the folloving annexes: (a)
Port Investment (Annex 4-1); (b) Resurfacing of the Porto-Novo-Pobé Road
(Annex 4-2); (c) Rehabilitation of the Parakou-Nalanville Road (Annex 4-3);
<d) Rehabilitation of the Coué-Dogbo Road (Amnex 4-4); and (e) Gravel Roads
Regravelling and Rehabilitation (Annex 4-5).
The Port Investuent              
4.02      Repair of the Old Commerclal Quays.  The proposed investuent il
to provide the sheet pile structure vith a cathodic protection at a total
cost of CFAF 196 million in 1985 prices. CFAF 2.0 million will be epent
each year to maintain it. Two principal benefits are expected: (i) avoid-
ance of the expensive quay reconstruction and reduction in maintenance
coet; and (il) avoidance of additional ship vaiting time during reconstruc-
tion. The investment has an estimated 232 ERR which vould fall te 222 if
the cost of capital vere 152 higher, and als  to 222 if the reconstruction
date vere to be postponed to the year 2005 instead of 2000, the assumption
under the base case.
4.03      Protection of the Southern Embankment in the Port Basin.  The
southern embankment il  subject to erosion which accusulates soft materials
ln the basin and muet be dredged.  The proposed investment is to build
vooden groins to stabilize the embankment at a cot of CFAF 57.3 million ln
1985 prices vith an economic l1fe of 30 yeare. Maintenance vill require
additional CFAF 0.5 million each year. The economic analysis gives a 33%
ERR, which vould fall to 24S If capital cost is increased by 152 and to 15%
if the reconstruction and relocation are postponed by five yeare vithout
the Project.
4.04      Rehabilltation of the Eastern Breakwater.  The breakwater has a
sheet pile structure vith no cathodic protection. The proposed investment
for a total of some CFAl  688 million in 1985 prices provides such cathodic
protection for the immersed portion of the breakvater, concrete protection
above the vater line and spot repairs vill be done wherever needed.  The
economil  analysis compares the investm.nt and maintenance costs sequences



- 21 -
vith and vithout the Pr-,>¾ct. Sida effects on traffic vere deemed negli-
gîble. Under best estimates, the ERR is 21%. The sensitivity analysis
shows that the ERR falls to 19S vith capital coste increased by 152.
4.05      Dredging.  The proposed investment is to restose the 12.5 m vater
depth In the entrance channel by dredging some 250 000 a at a cost of CFAF
330 million in 1985 prices. Vithout the Project, incoming shipe vould face
increasing draft constraints and Benin vould progressively lose the econo-
mies of scale accruing from transporting its bulk cargo iîports in large
vessals.  The ERR for the Project dredging la 26S. falling to 13X If
freight rate savings are only 66Z of those assumed in the base case and
dredging coste 25Z higher.
4.06      Nearly all project benefits vould accrue to Benin in teras of
reduced investments. The reduction ln ship waiting time, representing a
saving of about CFAF 1.4 billion in the base case of the commercial quay
investment would, if approprlated by foreign shlpowners, reduce the ERR
from 23% to 21%.  But, the shipowners are more likely to compencate vaiting
tfimes by freight surcharges paid by Baeninese shippers. The avoidance of
those surcharges through tha Project vould therefore benefit Benin.
Resurfacing of the Porto Novo-Pobé Road (Annex 4-2)
4.07      Rehabilitation of 61 km of paved road between Porto-Novo and Pobé
vould represent an economic cost of CFAF 2.4 billio in 1985 prices,
including  5%  for  the  supervision.   In  the  absence  of  the  envisaged
rehabilitation, a full reconstruction would be needed after 10 years, at a
colt of CFAP 4.5 billion.
4.08      The traffic vas 900 to 1,100 v.p.d. in 1984 on each of the two
sections. Since then, one event has made traffic forecast for this road
uncertain during the preparation of this Project: the closure of the
Nigerian border until mid-1986. The impact of these events is a traffic
raduction  of  about  30X.   The  economie  analysis  vas  made  under  the
assumption that the trafflc viil return to its 1984 level in 1987, and grow
thereafter at about 52 annually, but a sensitivity analysis vas made vith
the reopening of the border postponed by tvo years.
4.09      The benefite expected from this component of the Project vould be
in khe form of reduced vehicle operating colts, savinge on routine mainte-
nance, and savinge on road reconstruction cost in year 10.
4.10      The n    in the base case la 69.0%.  With a capital cost incraased
by 15%, the ERR vould still be approxiaately 60.0%. Even on the assumption
of all negative facoors combined, that is to say vith the reopening of the
Nigeria border postp.,ed, and a reduction in the estimate of initial traf-
fic by 20% (to take account of possible error in the road traffic counts),
the ERR is still around  37%.   Combining traffie reduction and higher
investment cost, the ERR is approximately 32.0%.
Rehabilitation of the Parakou-Malanville Road (Annex 4-3)
4.11      This project component ieludes the full resurfacing and the re-
habilitation of specific sections of the 317 km paved road, at a cost of
CFAF 2.9 billion in 1985 prices.  The road carries between 330 and 770



- 22 -
v.p.d., depending on the section. It i a vital link for landlocked Niger
and for Northern Benin. Traffic growth is estimated at 6% annually. The
main benefits expected from the rehabilitation would be: (a) the avoidance
of very expensive road reconstruction by the year 1989; (b) savings on road
maintenance cost; (c) savinge on vehicle operating costs. No traffic gene-
ration is to be expected. The Project ERR le a high 106%. Sensitivity
tests vere carried out with a capital investment cost 15% higher (ERR 90%),
with internal traffic increase reduced to 4.2% (ERR-104%), and with traffic
in 1985 20% lover than estimated (ERR 92%). With all three cases combine'
the ERR i8 still 77%.
Rehabilitation of the Comé-Doabo Road (Annex 4-4)
4.12      The Project component includes the rehabilitation of several sec-
tions of the 61.5 km paved road, at a cost of CFAF 2.7 billion in 1985 pri-
ces. The estimated road traffic is 300 to 700 v.p.d. depending on the sec-
tions. The road is the main access to/from the rich and heavily populated
Mono province. The traffic consists mainly of agricultural products being
moved south, and industrial products and fertilizers from Cotonou to Mono
province.  Future traffic growth corresponds to the population increase, of
about 2.5% annually. The main benefits expected from this component of the
Project are a reduction in road maintenance cost and a substantial reduc-
tion in vehicle operating cost. The Project ER in the best estimate case
ls 30%. Sensitivity tests vere carried out with a 15% higher capital cost
and with future traffie growth 25% lover (ERR 29%).  Combining these two
cases, the ERÀ i still a satisfactory 26%.
Gravel Roads Regravelling and Rehabilitation (Annex 4-5)
4.13      This component comprises periodie maintenance and rehabilitation
of some 1,000 km of classified gravel roads over the !'d7-1990 period,
lncluding technical assistance for the supervision of maintenance brigades.
The cost of this program la estimated at about CFAF 2.92 billion in 1985
prices at a cost per kilometer ranging from CFAF 1.3 million to 8.0 mil-
lion.  Roads are categorized by traffic in vehicles per day and economie
life of periodic maintenance.   Each road section could be expected to
generate average savings on routine maintenance cost of about CFAF 35,000
(US$111) per kilometer per year and savings on vehicle operating costs.
Each could al8o be expected to generate benefits in the form of users' time
savings and traffie generated but these have not been quantified. The ERR
for the entire program is approximately 43%.  Sensitivity analyses vere
carried out and resulte calculated for various cases, as follows: (a) in-
vestment cost 25% higher: ERR 34%; (b) initial traffic 30% under official
counts: ERR 29%; and (c) a combination of (a) and (b) above: ERR 23%.



-23-
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
PAC
5.01      Ending three successive years of high deficits to a cumulative
amount of CFAF 1.1 billion, PAC returned to profitability it  1984, earning
some CFAF 272 million as pre-tax income.  Results for 1985 remained posi-
tive by a narrover margin and those for 1986 are expected in the same order
of magnitude bksed on preliminary data. This financial recovery vas due to
a combination of traffic increases and a more effective control of operat-
ing cost6. Nevertheless, PAC still finds itself in a precarious liquidity
position which it has been able so far to veather by not repaying the long
term loans it had received from Goverument under the Port of Cotonou
Project. By the end of 1984, the current ratio vas 1.0 compared to 2.1 two
years earlier; it has since dropped to around 0.9. A major factor in this
evolution vas the accumulation of receivables from major customers by PAC,
of which OBEMAP, SONATRAC and SOTRACOB take the largest share,  The last
two companies vent out of business early in 1987.
5.02      The financial projection, detailed in Annex 5-1, assumes an aver-
age traffic growth of some 5% p.a. from 1987 onvard, due to the increased
competitiveneqs of the Benin corridor following the trade liberalization
and the paving of the Dassa-Parakou road, as vell as productivity increases
of some 25% on average over 1986-90, partly due to the growth of container-
ization.    The  strategy  tovard  financial  viability  includes  three
approaches: (a) minimizing vorking expenses; (b) increasing and restruc-
turing of port tariffs; and (c) tightening the management of vorking capi-
tal; very ineffective over the past 3 years.
5.03      Summary income statements for 1985 and forecast through 1991 are
shown in the Table below.
PAC's Summary Income Stat<ments
(in current CFAF million)
1985         1987          1989        1991
(Actuûal-
Operating Revenues              2,686         3,229         3,688       4,113
Working Expenses                1,330         1,515         1,731       1,981
Depreciation                      969           930           998       1,061
Net Operating Revenues            387           784           959       1,071
Interest                          581           536          865          859
Net Non-Operating revenues        235           259           285         315
Income before. tax                 41           507           379         527
Working Ratio                    0.50          0.47          0.47        0.48
A tariff revision will be needed to strengthen PAC's finance.   A 10%
increase of ship dues and demurrage for goode in storage and a 5% lncrease
of other PAC's tariff excluding the dues levied on goods from the July 1985
level is sade a condition for credit effectiveness.  To further meet the
cash generation objectives, aRreement vas reached at nemotiations on:



- 24 -
(a)   the total employment level (permanent and casual vorkers)
to be reduced by 5% each year starting 1988 through 1991;
(b)   ?AC to maintain a ratio of total vorking expenses to total
operating revenues not higher than 0.50 from 1988 on;
(c)   the payables of liquidated state enterprises to be deducted
from PAC short term liabilities to Government; and
(d)   a revised tariff structure, taking into account the cost of
services and the relative scarcity of facilities available
to be implemented, not later than June 30, 1989, following
the implementation of a cost accounting system.
Complementary measures to comply vith these covenants are detailed in PAC's
Action Plan (Annex 2-6>.
5.04      The summary balance sheets for 1985 and forecast through 1991 are
shown in the table below.
PAC's Summary Balance Sheets
(in current CFAF million)
1985         1987          1989        1991
(actual)
Current Assets                  6,652         6,688        5,245        4,574
Current Liabilities             7,039         7,500         1,224         871
Fixed and Other Assets (net)  27,501         26,160       27,141       27,744
Total Assets                27J14                       1.6         13,447
Debt                            7,402         5,231        10,724      10,560
Equity                         19,712        20,117       20,438       20,887
Current Ratio                    0.94          0.89         4.29         5.25
'Debt/Equity Ratio               27/73        21/79         34/66        34/66
'o meet these capital structure objectives, agreements vere reached at
negotiations on the folloving:
(a)   the investment plan will be  subiitted annually to the
Association for its review and agreement; and
(h) PAC vill maintain a debt to equity ratio of no more than
35165 from 1988 onvards.
Complementary measures to comply vith these covenants are detailed in the
above referenced Action Plan.  Purthermore, this Plan vill specify the
conditions and timing for rescheduling of PAC's arrears on long term debt
to the Covernuent in relation to the Pirst IDA Port Project; these arrears
amounted to about CFAP 5.5 billion as of December 31, 1986.



OBEMAP
5.05      OBEMAP's financial situation in 1984 vas critical: the lncome
statement disclosed working expenses ln excess of operating revenues by as
much as CFAF 884 million and an overall deficit close to CFAF 1.4 billion,
which brought the negative retained earnings over the last 4 years to a cu-
mulative total of CFAP 2.4 billion.  A receding traf f lc, ov.r-staffing and
insufficlent tariffs explain vhy the situation has deteriorated so badly.
Firet steps to remedy those Issues have been taken and OBEMAP took advan-
tage of the 1985 trafflc increase to break even or nearly so (the CFAF 182
million pre-tax income announeed has been questioned and an audit is cur-
rently being conducted: a downvard revlsion of the income le expected).
5.06      The financial sàucture has veakened considerably since 1981: the
current ratio thon at 0.75 fell lu 1984 to 0.45 as OBENAP accumulated short
term coumercial payables to a total of CFAF 6.9 billion thereby transfer-
ring its financial burden to its suppliera including PAC. OBENAP itself
faces problem in cashing its bille: the average receivables collection
period vas above 500 days in 1984. OBEMAP's permanent funds are negative,
equlvalent to more than CFA? 2 billion. During negotiations, an Action
Plan for OBENAP has been agreed with the Government and vill serve as a
framework for further financial restructuring to be negotiated with CCCE.
Details are provided in Aunex 5-2.
VI. AGREENENTS REACGED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, agreements have been reached or conflrmed on
the following pointes vth:
Governuent
(a)   Annual presentation of a transport sector expenditure and
investment plan to the Association for agreement (para.
2.23);
(b)   Submission for approval of any capital investment in the
road subsector not scheduled in the annual plan and in
excess of CFAP 200 million (para. 2.27);
(c)   Submission for approval of any capital investment in the
rallway subsector not included in the annual plan and in
excesa of CFhA 500 million for agreement (para. 2.28);
(d)   Limitation of the Freight Bureau's role to facilitating
road and joint evaluation with IDA of its activity in
December 1988 (para. 2.32);
(e)   Coflnancing arrangements (para. 3.17);
(f)   The application of the procurement methods (para. 3.24);
and           1



- 26 -
(g)   Disbursement procedures and ln particular applications of
methode and format to be used in carrying out and paying
for force accouRt maintenance works (para. 3.27).
PAC
(a)   PAC's annual presentation to the Association of a satis-
factory maintenance program and the corresponding budget
(para. 2.11);
(b)   PAC's annual presentation of its investment and expenditure
plan to the Association for agreement and to seek the
Assoclation's agreement for any capital investment not
included in the annual plan and ln excesa of CFAP 200
million (para. 2.25 and 5.04);
(c) PAC to: (i) reduce the number of its staff by 5Z each year
starting 1988 through 1991; (il) maintain a ratio of total
working expenses to total operating revenues not higher
than 0.50 from 1988 on; and (ii) revise its tariff struc-
ture not later than June 30, 1989 <para. 5.03); and
(d)   PAC to maintain a debt to equity ratio of no more than
35/65 from 1988 onvard (para. 5.04).
6.02      The following are conditions of Credit Effectiveness:
(a)   Conditions for effectiveness of the co-financing agreements
vith BOAD, EDF and IDB having been fulfilled (para. 3.17).
(b)   Signature  of the  on-lending agreement with PAC  (para.
3.18);
(c)   Opening of the Project account in a comercial bank accep-
table to the Association, and vith an initial deposit of
CFAF 50 million therein (para. 3.27); and
(d)   PAC's ship dues and demurrage fees for goode in storage and
other PAC tariffs excluding dues levied on goods having
been tncreased respectively by 10Z and 5% from their July
1, 1985 level (para. 5.03).
6.03      The following have been discussed and agreed at negotiations:
(a)   An Action Plan for PAC'e management (para. 2.10);
(b) An draft Action Plan for OBENA? management (para. 2.14);



- 27 -
(c)   An  Action  Plan  for  DROA  concerning  road  maintenance
organization, creatiorx of a road management unit, road
maintenance financing, and limitation of the intervention
of the Road Fund exclusively for road maintenance activi-
ties (paras. 2.20 and 2.30);
(d)   An Action Plan for DEP (para. 2.24);
(e)   Limitation on investment in road paving In the North-West
corridor (para. 2.27);
(f)   Terme of Reference for consulting services and technical
assistance for PAC, DEP and DROA (para. 3.11);
(g)   The implementation schedule (para. 3.19); and
(h) Auditing and reporting requirements for PAC, OBEMAP, DEP
and DROA (paras. 3.29 and 3.30).
6.04      Satisfactory agreements and assurances on the substance of paras.
6.01 through 6.03 having been obtained during negotiations, the Project is
suitable for an IDA Credit of US$19.5 million.
WAPTR
April 1987



- 28 -
ANIE  2-1
PEOPLE'8 RBI!ELC 0,F 181s11
T,ANSPORT INfaSTCTU
RER&ILITATION AU MAINTIM      E PROJECT
PORT TRAPC STATI8STICS
(<000 tone)
1979    1980     1981      1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
A. General Cargo
Benin                            321      299      320       340    285    361    408    479
Importe                         36      246        i         i    W      2953   31I   36
Exporte                         85       53       39        36     49    66       94    111
Niger                             63       86      201       191    101    174    281    202
Ilporte                         58                                1f    IW       27     en3 
Exports                          5        6        7         7      6    5         6     19
Nigeria                            6       --       --        18     21       3      5      1
Iaporta                          6       -l  21    5                               Y i
Exporte                                  -        -         -      --      --    --
Total General Cargo              390      385      521       513    407    538    694    682
B. Solid Bulk Cargo
Benin                            293      296      359       304    113      51     82    193
Clinker & Gypeum                MI    67                                  1IT     Z     164
Cereala                         37       36       56        56     46     40      14     29
Nigter                            58       40       48        43     46      43     70     31
Sulphur                         58       39       48        43 5i         li      40     31
Cereals                         -        -        -         --     --     -       30     -
Total                            351      336      407       347    159      94    152    224
C.  Liquid Bulk Cargo
Benin                            118      141      136       124    149    141    226    146
Niger                             SO       85       87       103     65      78     60     63
Nigeria                          623       -        -         -      -       -a            -
Total                            791      226      223       227    214    219    286    209
D.  Other Countries Importe             7      13         6       23     22      34     34      53
Grand Total                     1539      960     1157      1110    802    885   1166   1168
-~~ ~ ~       ~~~~ 5        -- =. =   =  -=
a/  Includes vegetable oil exporta for Benin in addition to ffporte of petroleum
products; importe of petroleum producta ouly for Niger; and, exporta of
Nigerian petroleum producte througb Cotonou.
bI Mostly Importe for Mali, Upper Volta'and Togo lacluding petroleum products.
Source: Annial Statistica of the Port Authority.
WATR
April 1987



29 -
P- NEX 2-2
Page' i or 4
PEOPLEWS UrPtLIC OF 8ENIN
TlANSPO    DIwES_TRUTI
REEABILITATION AND INTENmIANCE PROJECT
1.* P:otectiv. Structures
Thete comprise:
(a)   Eastern breakwater, 770a long. built vith rip-rap over a
length of 230m. and extented for a furtbh.: 540C by a double
sereen of matal piles, forming berthing quays;
(b)   Southera breakwater, nov 8004 long. the oetIia point of
vnich ls the Southeast corner of tke mm basin. This
breakvater is also bulit vith r4p-rap, and levelled off at
+ 6m, sud having a vidth of 7& at the top;
(c)   Sand moles approxlaately 1,300. long, prot6cting thii south-
ern part of the nev basin;
(d) A eut-off breakwater (groin). 300m lon8. built vith rip-rap
obtaiued froa demolition ef the firet 320m of the western
breakwater. pie groin te levelled off at + 4.7a vith a
standard vtdth of 8.Se at the top. The groin rues eut to
sea. starting at the bond in the western breakWater;
(a)  Access channel dredged to a depth of 12.5t. and a sand-trap
dredged to 16.5, both located in front of the entrance.
The entrance channel i 180.m vide. It forma the sole
access to the Port. The turning circle for ve8sels has a
dismeter of 520m.
The total ares of the basin is 60 hectares, ef uhich 40
are in front of the old quays, sad 20 in front of the nov
quays. The two parts coumunicate directly at the point
vhere a portion of the old western breakvater has beau
demolished. TIhe complete basin is dredged to 11, except
for a berm opposite the old quays, 10. vide and drodged to
10.
2. Berthin Facilitis. - QuaYs
The old lusys comprise:
(a)   main quay constructed from pilot, length 660 m. vith
4 berthe, designed to -^ Welv  gentral cargo shipe;



- 30 -
ANNE 2-2
Page 2 of 4
(b) secondary quay, comprising the easteru breakwater, vith:
(1)  a tanker berth 200m long, also serving as an un-
loading bertb for bulk carsos (Clinker>. This
berth is conoected to the georal hydrocarbon
storage depot, locat.d outaide the port area, by a
300mm diameter pipeline;
(ii) a berth, 160m long, for chips loading vegetable
oils. This berth is connected to the storage
depot, via a 150 mm dtamater oil pipeline; and
(iii) au additional berth, 100m long, to take lou tonnage
vessels, and trawlers, putting it for short calls
or repaire.
Thera a. also au outaide berth, 200m lon8, equipped vith
valve-controlled pneumatic fenders.
(c)   fiahing quay, 165m long, at the esastern eud of the main
quay.
New Quav
It comprises a main vall in reinforced concrets, conatructed
using the CIP technique. This is the first structure of its type it
Africa. 660m long, the nev quay provides four supplemsntary berthe, in
addition to those of the exlting. The nev quay in located to the vent of,
the old, main quay, formtng au extension of the latter.
The ftnished leval of all quays le + 3.5m.
3. Warehouses and Stockyards
The Port of Cotonou has the following storage facilities:
(a)  Bonded varehouses
- 4 varehouse sheds, 3,750.2 each, located
30m from the quay, total: ............... .    15,000m2
- 2 varehouse sheds, 6,000m2 each, located
30m from the quay, total ....    ..          12.000.1
-  transit varehouse ..........................    4,000.2
-  product warehouse  ..................... .    4,000
-  3 other transit varehouses .................    6,000'm
-  custome varehouse .....                    .    2,000.2
-  hydrocarbon stores .........................    2,500m2
-  2 varehouses (ABG and SONACE), 1,000 and
2,000u2 respectively ............    3,0O."
-  OPT varehouse for postal packages                 530.2
Total surface area:                       49



- 31 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 3 of 4
(b)   Unbonded varehouses
-  3 transit varehouses       ......................    6,300.2
(c)   Iydrocarbon storage
-  2 SONACOP storage tanks (3rd zone) ........       MOOZ 3,70O
- Il storage tanks ini industrial zone
(Akpakpa)               .    ...........  40,0Om9
Total hydrocarbon storage capacity
(d) Storeyard
-  roadways and access alleys .................   30,000m2
- total capacity for miscellaneous
merchandise                                   80,000ma
-  container gtorage areas (including
refriger#ted containers) ................   70,000m2
-  sulphur storage area           .....             2,5008m
-  bonded transit zone  .........45,00002
-  unbonded zone                                  139,000M2
Total surface area: *        . . .
(e)   Special Fishery Installations
At the rear of the fishing quay already mentioned, the Port
of Cotonou Authority has provided the following facilities
for fishermen:
(i)  covered fish hall, aurface ares 700m2, for sorting
and sale of freshly off-loaded fish;
(ii) ice chip production plant, with a daily production
capacity of 30 tons;
(iii) winch for careening boats up to 32m in length, 8m
in beam, and vith a maximum displacement of 250
tons.
(f)   Storage of Cereals
A set of grain silosj with a total capacity of 11,000 tons,
has been built outside the customs compound. These silos
belong to Fonds Autonome de Soutien (FAS), and connect vith
the quay via an overhead mechanical conveyor, with a carry-
ing capacity of 50 tons/hour.
4. Port Equipmeut
Vertical handling between ships' hold and the quays, and vice
versa, is by shipe' gear.  A tire-mounted mobile quay-side crane hae been



- 32 -
AUNEZ 2-2
Page 4 of 4
in operation since June 1980, The capaclty of this cran. (Caillard GSP 50)
i8 50 tons.
For horizontal haudling operations, OBEIAP ha8 a range of equip-
ment, includlng the folloving in particular:
-   RYSTER 5-ton cranes
-   fork-lifte with capacities of 2, 4, 5, 7, 10, 35 and 40
tons
-   toving vehicles
-   spreaders
-   loaders
- portable conveyors
-   Vac-U-vator suction transfer pumpa
-   20 to 30 ton trailers
-   10 ton skip trucks
-   10 ton skips
SONATRAC and SOTRACOB (Forwarding Agents) are also equipped with, ln par-
ticular:
-   fork-lifts vith capacities from 5 to 10 tons
-   20 to 30 ton trailers.
A 60-ton weigh bridge is located at each entrance to the port.
WAPTR
April 1987



- 33 -
AMNEZ 2-3
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF SENIN
TRANSPORT INFBASTRUCTURE
REHABILITATION AND, MAITENANCE PROJECT
PORT PRODUCTIVITY INDICATORS
Current                Targets
1985       1987    1988    1989    1990
Tons Handled per Ship/Day
- General Cargo                  350         380     400     420      450
- Bagged Goods                 1,000       1,000   1,100   1,200   1,200
- Grain                          950         950   1,000   1,100   1,100
- Containers (TEU/.hip/hour)      10          12      13       14      15
Tons of General Cargo par
Gang Hour                           18          20      22       24      25
Average Storage Time in
Transit Shed in Days                27          24      22       20      20
Source: Prepared by Bank Staff.
'iPTR
April 1987



- 34 -
ANNEX 2-4
PEOPLE'S REPUBELIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
ROADS REHABILITATION PROGRAM
GR.VEL ROADS
A. Sections to be regzavelled
Itinerary                           LenÈhth
1.  Akplo - Adjohoun                           24.2
2. Djougou - Bétérou                           71.0
3.  Bitérou - Parakou                          63.5
4.  Djougou - Natitingou                       78.3
5.  Savalou - Okoutaoussé                      87.5
6. Kandi - Banikoara                           69.8
7. Djougou - P4honco                           71.6
8.  Iokoumbg - Natitingou                      41.7
9.  Fobouré - Guessou Sud                      30.0
10.  Savalou - Tchetti                          37.8
i1.  Logozohé - Glazoué                         17.7
Sub-Total                            593.1
B.  Sections to be rehabilitated
Itinerary                           Length
1.  Bétérou - Tchaourou                        53.9
2.  Kouandé - Péhonco                          87.0
3.  Péhonco - Kérou                            72.7
4.  Kandi - Segbana                            94.6
5. Adjohoun - Ouinhi - Kpedapko                65.0
6.  N'dali - Bori                              35.8
Sub-Total                             409.0
Total                               1&002.1km
WAPTR
April 1987



- 35 -
ANNEX 2-5
PEOPLIS NEPUELIC OF SEM
vs-IlAllNSPOD II4YASTTRE
ruAILZZA!om AmS M&UCENAM# PIOJIC
PAC - ORGslON CRaE
(as of March 1987)
Deputy Director Gnerali
Diremctor of           Coier<ia1             Director of         Director of Port            Admistrative
Studios                Director              Finances         _     aintenance                 Director
Econwmc StudiOes       Stastistics           Treasury |quipant |rainina
Techuical Studios      Marketing             Cecai               Infrastructure
!~  M 1j                1                     Accoemtfng             _esources
Rydo>rapy sud        Lga                   Finsocial             ictcity and               Pbi
Topoio                                       Operations          Signais                       latio
Data Processing                               Coat Accounting                                 Gêer1|
E udgeting|
Hsarbor         Director
MSaster       Fishing Port
Sources PAC
VAPTR
April 1987



-36 -
ANNEX 2-6
Page ` of 4
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
REMA»ILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
PLAN D'ACTION - PORT AUTONOME DE COTONOU
Objectifs
Les objectifs du plan d'action du PAC sont:
1. Améliorer la qualité du service rendu aux usagers du port de Cotonou.
2. Améliorer la gestion et la productivité du port.
3. Assurer l'équilibre financier à moyen terme du ?AC.
4.  Assurer la conservation de l'outil portuaire.
Moyens
1. Pour améliorer la qualité du service rendu.
1.1   Organiser une concertation régulière sur les procédures de pas-
sage par le port, entre Douane, OBEMAP, usagers et autorités por-
tuaires afin de simplifier les procédures et de réduire les
délais de passage par le port, notamment pour les marchandises en
transit.
1.2 Etablir et réaliser un programme d'amélioration de la sécurité
sur le port avant le 31 décembre 1988.
1.3 Etablir avant le 31 décembre 1988, en liaison avec l'OBEMAP, de
nouvelles conditions (y compris tarifaires) d'utilisation des
hangars et terre-pleins, de façon à réduire le temps de séjour
des marchandises au port.
1.4  Mettre en place une cellule d'analyse permanente du fonctionne-
ment du port comparant les rendements obtenus aux objectifs fixés
et identifiant les facteurs d'encombrement, de blocage et de sur-
crott des manutentions. Cette cellule, qui sera mise en place
avant le 31 octobre 1988, devra travailler en étroite concerta-
tion avec l'OBEMAP et participer à la mise au point des statis-
tiques d'exploitation du PAC (para. 2.1(d)).
2. Pour améliorer la gestion et la productivité.
2.1 Poursuivre le développement du système de gestion grâce aux
mesures suivantest



- 37 -
AN»I 2-6
Page 2 of 4
(a) sélection d'un consultant avant le 30 juin 1988 pour
une durée de six mois afin de développer le système de
comptabilité analytique;
(b)  sélection d'un consultant avant le 30 juin 1988  pour une
durée de six mois afin d'assister le Bureau d'Etudes en ma-
tière d'études économiques et tarifaires portuaires;
(c)  sélection d'un consultant avant le 30 juin 1988 pour
* renforcer le service d'audit interne et pour la mise en
informatique des systèmes de gestion (tableau de bord,
audit) précédemment ou simultanément développés (15 h-ois);
(d)  sélection d'un consultant avant le 30 juin 1988, afin de
développer le système de statistiques d'exploitation du PAC
(6 h-mois);
(e)  sélection d'un consultant avant le 31 octobre 1988 afin
d'assister le service planification du personnel et forma-
tion professionnelle dans la préparation et l'implantation
d'un plan de formation du personnel visant: (i) au develop-
pement institutionnel de la fonction personnel-formation
comprise; et (ii) à la formation du personnel du PACe Ce
consultant travail 3ra pendant 5 mois, répartis en une mis-
sion d'un mols pu ] 5 séjours de 3 semaines répartis pendant
la durée du projet.
2.2  Former le personnel du PAC.  En particulier:
(a) former le personnel du service planification du personnel et
formation professionnelle;
(b)  poursuivre la formation des cadres selon le programme prévu
au projet;
(c)  définir avant le 31 octobre 1988 le plan de formation
1987-90 du personnel de maîtrise et d'exécution; puis im-
planter le plan de formation;
(d)  équiper le Centre de Formation du PAC grâce à l'acquisition
de matériel et documentation pédagogique avant le
31 octobre 1988.
Pour l'exécution des actions (a), (b), (c) et (d) ci-dessus, l'assistance
technique d'un spécialiste en gestionides ressources humaines
(para. 2.1(e)), des bourses à l'Etranger et l'acquisition de matériel et de
documentation pédagogique seront financés pour les fonds du Crédit.
2.3 Réduire les effectifs permanents et occasionnels du PAC globale-
ment de 5% par an entre 1988 et 1991, grîce à deu réaffectations
internes pour remplacer le personnel partant à la retraite et des
programmes de formation adaptés devant permettre les réaffecta-
tions de personnel. Le tableau présentant les compressions



- 38 -
ANNEX 2-6
Page 3 of 4
d'effectifs prévues par direction pour la période 1988-91 sera
établi avant le 31 octobre 1988. Ce tableau sera révisé en
fonction de l'évolution du trafic du port.
3. Pour assurer l'équilibre financier du PAC.
3.1   Réduire le montant des créances à court terme selon les objectifs
fixés au tableau ci-après.
3.2   Rééchelonner les arriérés du service de la dette à la CAA en con-
formité avec les dispositions de la Lettre de modification du
1987, et reprendre dans l'immédiat le service de cette dette
selon les accords antérieurs.
3.3   Réviser annuellement les t4rifs et/ou limiter la croissance des
charges d'exploitation de façon à maintenir un ratio de fonction-
nement suffisant pour financer les investissements nécessaires
inscrits au plan d'investissement, assurer le service de la dette
sans subventions externes, et maintenir en permanence une tréso-
rerie positive.
3.4   Compenser les dettes des sociétés d'Etat dissoutes par
l'extinction d'un montant équivalent de créances de l'Etat sur le
PAC.
4. Pour assurer la conservation de l'outil portuaire.
4.1   Renforcer les moyens de la Direction Technique (DT), avec
l'assistance pour une durée de douze mois, d'un consultant
sélectionné avant le 30 juin 1988,, et mettre en oeuvre les
actions suivantes:
(a) procéder aux grosses réparations de hangars, bâtiments et
terre-pleins prévues au projet;
(b) mettre au point des indicateurs d'activités et de perfor-
mance pour l'entretien (prévisions budgétaires et réalisa-
tions, pourcentage d'avancement physique, durées d'immobi-
lisation);
(c)  améliorer le système d'analyse des coûts des opérations
d'entretien.
4.2 Préparer un programme annuel d'entretien des infrastructures et
de visites d'ouvrages avant le 30 septembre de chaque année, à
partir de 1988.
4.3   Allouer un budget annuel suffisant à la DT pour exécuter le
programme d'entretien mentionné ci-dessus.
Les actions 4-2 et 4-3 seront soumises au préalable à l'Association pour
discussion et accord.



- 39 -
ANNE 2-6
Page 4 of 4
Indicateurs
Les Indicateurs ci-dessous seront suivis par le PAC de façon à
atteindre les objectifs fixés.
ObJectifs annuels du PAC
Indicateurs                  1988   1989   1990   1991  1992
Réduction des effectifs                   -5%    -5Z    -52    -5%    -
Réduction des dettes à court terme a'    200    200    200    200   200
Réduction des créances à court terme a' 400    300    300    300   300
Ratio de fonctionnement                  0.50   0.50   0.50   0.50  0.50
Temps moyen de services des navires      Amélioration de 25% en moyenne
sur les niveaux de 1986.
Temps moyen de séjour des marchandises
sous hangar (jours)                        24     22     20     19    19
Temps de transit des conteneurs           Amélioration de 20S en moyenne sur
les niveaux de 1986.
Les indicateurs seront mesurés mensuellement et comparés aux objectifs.
Les rapports trimestriels d'avancement adressées à l'Association feront
mention des valeurs des indicateurs au cours du trimestre précédent. Ces
rapports mintionneront également les valeurs des indicateurs suivants:
-    Productivité moyenne (tonnes par équipe/heure)
(marchandises diverses)
-    Tonnage mmnutentionné par jour-navire
- Divers (tonne/jour)
- Sacherie (tonne/jour)
- Céréales (tonne/jour)
- Conteneurs (EVP/heure/navire)
a/ En millions de Francs CFA.
WATR
April 1987



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
OBEEMP Orgaxtztatïonal Chart as of 3187
Depit i recto Gemoro
April                                                                 -I
IAT           I        ___                        
Aril   , 987«»



i          - 41-
ANNEX 2-8
Page 1 of 5
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
REHABILITATION ANU MAINTEN&NCE PROJECT
PLAN D'ACTION - OBEMAP
Objectifs
1. Améliorer la productivité de l'OBEMAP afin d'offrir des services compé-
titifs avec ceux des ports voisins et satisfaisants pour les usagers.
2. Améliorer le fonctionnement des ateliers d'entretien des engins de
manutention.
3. Apurer les arriérés financiers et rétablir la viabilité financière de
l'Office.
Moyens
1. Afin d'améliorer la productivité de l'OBEMAP:
1.1 Aider au développement institutionnel de la fonction personnel y
compris formation. Un consultant sera sélectionné avant
le 30 juin 1988 pour réaliser, dans le délai de 4 mois, les
taches suivantes:
(a)   Système de gestion du personnel:
(i) étude des principaux postes de travail, élaboration
des plans de carrière et de la grille des salaires;
(ii) détermination des normes de production pour chacun
des principaux postes de travail tenant compte des
conditions réelles de travail et des moyens dont
dispose le personnel;
(iii) préparation deun système de prime à la production
pour l'ensemble des postes de travail;
(iv) inventaire et évaluation de la compétence profes-
sionnelle du personnel, par référence aux études de
postes et aux normes de production;
(v) élaboration et mise en oeuvre dtune politique de
gestion du personnel visant à réduire les effectifs
de 5S par an pendant la période 1988-1991.



- 42 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 2 of 5
1.2   Former le personnel de l'OBEHAP.
Le consultant poursuivra ensuite son assistance (pendant 4 mois
au total répartis en 5 séjours de 3 semaines) qui portera sur la
préparation et l'implantation du plan de formation du personnel.
Ce plan de formation qui couvrira la période 1989-1991 visera au
développement institutionnel de la fonction formation et au per-
fectionnement du personnel.
(a)   Développement institutionnel
(i) organisation de la formation du chef de service
formation qui detra être terminée au
31 décembre 1988;
(ii) mise en place du comité de formation;
(iii) organisation des bourses de deux stagiaires de la
direction matériel qui pourront avoir des respon-
sabilités de fo*mateurs à l'achèvement de leur for-
mation*
<iv) préparation des textes administratifs nécessaires
pour la préparation et l'implantation du plan de
formation et l'organisation du centre de formation
dont la construction devra être achevée
le 31 octobre 1988. Ce centre (400m2) de
construction légère comprendra deux salles de
cours, une bibliothèque et des bureaux.
(b)   Formation du personnel
(i) élaboration avant le 31 mars 1988 du plan de forma-
tion à implanter durant la période 1988-1991.  Les
programmes de formation viseront à ce que le per-
sonnel atteigne les normes de production fixées
pour chaque poste de travail;
(ii) implantation du plan de formation et évaluation des
résultats;
(iii) équipement du centre de formation en matériel péda-
gogique et documentation technique avant
le 31 octobre 1988.
Les services du consultant, des bourses, la construction du
centre de formation, et la fourniture du matériel et de la documentation
pédagogique seront financés sur les fonds du Crédit.



- 43 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 3 of 5
1.3 Améliorer le système d'information de gestion dans les domaines
suivants:
(a)   comptabilité générale, grâce à l'assistance d'un expert,
dont les services auront été retenus avant
le 30 juin 1988 pendant 12 mois;
(b) comptabilité analytique.!grgce à l'assistance d'un e;.pert,
dont les services auront été retenus avant
le 30 juin 1988 pendant six mois;
(c)   les statistiques d'exploitation et de fonctionnement des
ateliers d'7ntretien, grace à la mise au point par l'OBEMAP
d'un nouveau système statistique. Ce système sera effectif
avant le 31 décembre 1988;
(d)   le traitement automatique des données, grâce à l'acquisi-
tion de deux micro-ordinateurs avant le 31 juillet 1988, la
formation des utilisateurs de l'informatique et l'assis-
tance d'un expert recruté avant le 30 juin 1988 pour une
durée de quatre mois, pour la mise sur informatique des
systèmes (a) à (c) ci-dessus, et de la gestion du person-
nel.
1.4 Améliorer l'efficacité et la productivité des opérations de manu-
tention portuaires par les mesures suivantes:
(a)   Sélection d'un consultant avant le 30 juin 1988 pour
analyser les conditions d'exécution des opérations de manu-
tention et de stockage sur le port, mettre au point des
indicateurs d'activité et de performance et faire des
recommandations pour éliminer les facteurs d'encombrement,
de blocage et de surcrott;
(b)   Fixation d'objectifs de performance et comparaison pério-
dique des résultats obtenus aux objectifs fixés (par. 4);
(c)   Concertation avec le PAC pour examiner les actions à entre-
prendre pour diminuer le temps de séjour des marchandises
au port. Mise en place des actions avant le 31 mars 1988.
2. Afin d'améliorer le fonctionnement des ateliers d'entretien:
2.1   Sélection d'un consultant avant le 31 mars 1988 pour analyser le
fonctionnement et l'organisation des ateliers d'entretien et pour
définir un planning de grosses réparations.
2.2   Mise en place, avant le 31 décembre 1988, de l'amélioration des
installations d'entretien suivant le programme défini en accord
avec l'Association.
2.3   Exécution des grosses réparations des matériels avec l'assistance
du consultant visée en 2.1 avant le 31 décembre 1988.



- 44 -
ANNEX 2-8
page 4 of 5
3. Afin d'améliorer sa situation financiere, 1'OIEKAP:
3.1 Restructurera son bilan en obtenant du Gouvernement l'annulation
d'une partie de ses dettes et en réévaluant ses fumobilisations.
3.2 Réechelonnera sa dette à court terme vis £ vis de l'OBSS sous
forme d'un prgt portant latérit et amorti sur 10 ans en
conformité avec le plan figurant au paragraphe 4(a) ci-après.
3.3   Procédera au règlement échelonné des dettes restantes vis à vis
du PAC et des autres créditeurs avant le 31 décembre 1993.
3.4 Réduira globalement ses effectifs permanents et occasionnels de
5X chaque sannée entre 1988 et 1991, après avoir réduit au 31
décembre 1987 de 150 peruonnes l'effectif permanent, sur la base
d'un effectif de départ coprenant 1370 membres.
3.5  Maintiendra un ratio de fonctionnement suffisant pour assurer
l'autofinancement partiel des investissements de l'OBEMAP, le
service de sa dette et sa trésorerie, gr8ce à des révisions tari-
faires convenables et/ou des mesures de réduction des charges
dtexploitation.
3.6   Réduira progressivement des créances commerciales & 3 nois de
recettes au 31 décembre 1989, grice a une r4organisation de leur
mode de recouvrement.
4. Indicateurs
Les indicateurs ci-dessous seront suivis régulièrement par
l'OBEKAP de facon A attelndre les objectifs fixés.
(a) Indicateurs financiers         1987   1988   1989   1990  1991  1992
Règlement des arriérés
(on millions de CFA)
- PAC                          200    300    300    300    300   300
- Autres                        70     70     70      70     70    70
Ratio de fonctionnement            0.75   0.75   0.73   0.70   0.70  0.70
Créances commerciales A c.t.
(en mois de revenue)                5      4      3       3      3     3
(b) Indicateurs de productivité      1985   1987   1988   1989   1990  1992
des ateliers
Disponibilité des engins
- Chariots élévateurs (0 A St)   672    70Z    752    802    802  802
- Chariots élévateurs (10 à 40t) 502    652    70Z    752    802  802
- Grues mobiles                   502    652    752    802    85S  852
- Tracteurs                       80S    852    852    85S    852  852
Utilisation des engins                702    75S    802    802    802  802



- 45 -
ANNUX 2-8
Page 5 of 5
(en pourcentage des engins disponibles)
(c) Indicateurs de productivité de
la manutention                        1985   1988   1989   1990   1991  1992
(Actuel)
Productivité moyenne
(tonnes par équipe/heure)                     19     20     22      24     25    25
Temps moyen de stockage sous hangar (jours) 29       24      22     20     19    19
Tonnage manutentionné par jour-navire
- Divers (tonnes/jour)                     350    380    400    420    450   450
- Sacherie (tonnes/jour)                 N.A.  1,000  1,100  1,200  1,200 1,200
- Céréales (tonnes/jour)                 N.A.    950  1,000  1,100  1,100 1,100
- Conteneurs (EVP/heure/navire)             10     12      13     14     15    15
Les indicateurs de productivité seront mesurés mensuellement et comparés aux ob-
jectifs. Les rapports trimestriels d'avancement adressés à l'Association feront
mention des valeurs des indicateurs au cours du trimestre précédent.
WAPTR
April 1987



A.NNEX 2-9
- 46          -Page 1 of 2
_ .
i  H
E~_E>



'Lu                            J'
OI-O44
j'
- rt
'-i
w .-.     WZ
a         '-o
O wIW                  i
=     14
p j                                               OO
*1'
s-1
A       Il
w. s
i
4
s- I
r
il               _________
j'
1         -I
,-
.     ,41
*
-If
n
r jo  oIwj                             -   -
6-r XZ?mY



- 48 -
ANNEX 2-10
Page 1 of 7
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
DIRECTION DES ROUTES ET OUVRAGES D'ART (DROA)-
I. PLAN D'ACTION POUR L'ENTRETIEN ROUTIER
1.        Ce Plan d'Action vise à identifier et à programmer toutes les
mesures à prendre sur le plan de l'organisation, de la gestion, du finance-
ment et de la programmation, et de l'exécution de l'entretien routier en
vue d'accrottre son efficacité.
A. ORGANISATION, GESTION ET PROGRAMMATION DE L'ENTRETIEN ROUTIER
2.        Au regard des difficultés rencontrées actuellement dans le cadre
de l'entretien routier, le Gouvernement a accepté de réorganiser les
structures de l'entretien routier selon les orientations suivantes:
(a)   placer sous la responsabilité de la Direction des Routes et
Ouvrages d'Art tous les services intervenant dans l'entre-
tien routier (services centraux de planification, de
programmation et contr8le, services territoriaux chargés de
l'exécution des travaux, service du matériel);
(b)   réorganiser le service du matériel pour qu'il soit iimédia-
tement le seul responsable de l'ensemble du parc matériel
destiné à l'entretien des routes, au point de vue de sa
gestion et de son exploitation et à terme, propriétaire de
ce parc. Ce service fonctionnera comme prestataire de
services aux unités chargées de l'exécution des travaux
selon une base tarifaire lui permettant à terme de recou-
vrer ses coûts d'exploitation et de renouveler son maté-
riel;
(c)   organiser les services territoriaux chargés de l'exécution
de l'entretien courant en petites unités géographiques
responsables d'une section de réseai déterminée;
B. FINANCEMENT DE L'ENTRETIEN RO#TIER
3.        Le Gouvernement assurera un entretien courant adéquat sur la
totalité du réseau classé selon les normes techniques et les fréquences
d'interventions acceptables par l'Association pour le réseau prioritaire et
le reste du réseau classé, à définir annuellement avec l'Association.



- 49 -
A»Nu 2-10
Page 2 of 7
4.        En outre, le Gouvernement effectuera ou fera effectuer les tra-
vaux d'entretien périodique et participera au financement de ces travaux
selon le programme établi au Tableau 3.
5.        Le plan de financement de l'entretien tel que défini précédemnent
est le suivant:
Contribution Béninoise au
Financement de l'entretien des routes
(en millions de FCFA constants 1987>
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992   1993
Entretien courant               2,015   2,205   2,205   2,205   2,205  2,205
Entretien périodique a/           275      353     353     353      353    353
Dépenses diverses d'entretien    182       182     182      182     182    182
Remplacement de l'équipement      237      237     237     237      237    237
Total & financer          2,709   2,977   2,977   2,977   2,977  2,977
mu_        e      n *lt    mS    M       *_
a/ La contribution béninoise à l'entretien périodique a été calculée à
raison d'une participation à hauteur de 10% pour les routes bitumées,
de 30% pour les routes en terre, et de la totalité des charges asso-
ciées au renouvellement de l'équipement à partir de 1989. L'entretien
courant (y compris les frais généraux) est pris en charge à 100% par le
Benin.
Le Benin fournira les moyens financiers nécessaires comme indiqué au
tableau ci-dessus.
6.        Les ressources ainsi allouées annuellement à l'entretien routier
seront gérées directement par le Fonds Routier. Elles seront destinées à
l'achat des matériaux, matériels et carburants nécessaires aux travaux
d'entretien, aux salaires du personnel temporaire ainsi qu'aux rémunéra-
tions complémentaires du personnel chargé de l'entretien routier (primes de
responsabilité, primes de rendement, frais de déplacements, etc...), qui
seront gérées de façon autonome par le Fonds Routier.
7.        Le Gouvernement modifiera le fonctionnement du Fonds Routier afin
de le rendre responsable de la gestion de tous les fonds consacrés à
l'entretien des routes et de s'assurer de leur disponibilité en temps
utile.
8.        Le Gouvernement s'engage également à renforcer l'autonomie de
Gestion du Fonds Routier, tout en améliorant ses procédures de



- 50 -
ANNEX 2-10
Page 3 of 7
fonctionnement et de contrôle de l'exécution budgétaire au niveau des
unités de travaux. Le Gouvernement acceptera donc:
(a)   de créer au sein du Fonds Routier une unité d'audit interne
chargée de l'inspection financiére des services d'exécution
de l'entretien routier avant le 31 décembre 1987; et
(b)   de limiter l'intervention du Fonds Routier aux activités
d'entretien du réseau routier (achats de matériaux,
matériels, carburants, marchés de travaux, indemnités de
déplacement et primes pour le personnel chargé d'exécuter
les travaux ainsi que les salaires du personnel temporaire)
à l'exclusion de toute autre activité.
C. EXECUTION DES TRAVAUX D'ENTRETIEN ROUTIER
9.        Le Gouvernement a nommé deslingénieurs qualifiés à la tgte de
tous les services provinciaux des Rouqes et Ouvrages d'Art ainsi que les
principaux responsables du service du p4atériel et du service de l'Entretien
routier.
10.       Le Gouvernement s'engage également à augmenter progressivement la
part du secteur privé dans l'entretien courant et périodique des routes.
Cette part devra représenter en 1988 environ 25% des cofûts d'entretien
courant et 50Z des coûts d'entretien périodique. Ces pourcentages seront
révisés annuellement en fonction de l'évolution des travaux.
i1.       Pour les travaux à exécuter en régie, la DROA en tant que respon-
sable national des routes, établira, avant le 30 juin de chaque année, les
budgets à allouer aux unités provinciales chargées de l'entretien des
routes et veillera en liaison avec la Direction du Fonds Routier à leur
utilisation effective pour le programme d'entretien routier annuel approuvé
au préalable.
12.       Pour les travaux d'entretien effectués en régie par l'adminis-
tration, les modalités de rémunération des travaux effectivement réalisés
seront définies en accord avec l'Association. La certification de ces
travaux sera effectuée par un expert indépendant dont la DROA s'attachera
les services avant le 31 mars 1988. Cet expert procèdera au contr8le des
travaux et à l'inspection du réseau selon des termes de référence agrées
par l'Association.
13.       Pour créer un fonds de roulement auprès d'une banque commerciale
acceptable pour l'IDA avant le 31 octobre 1987 et qui recevra directement
la totalité des credits xécessaire à la réalisation des travaux d'entretien
périodique effectués en *égie. Ce fonds de roulement gérée par la DROA
financera les avances nécessaires pour la réalisation des travaux
d'entretien périodique. Il sera réalimenté selon la cadence des travaux
effectivement réalisés.



- 51 -
ANNEX 2-10
Page 4 of 7
Indicateur de performance pour l'execution de l'entretien routier
14.       Le Gouvernement s'est engagé à respecter les indicateurs de
performance par l'execution de l'entretien et d'utilisation du matériel.
Gestion des ressources humaines
La DROA s'engage à mettre en oeuvre les mesures suivantes:
(a)   prise de contact avec un organisme du secteur des
transports situé dans un pays dévéloppé en vue dl aboutir à
un accord de parrainage avant le 31 mars 1988. L'objet de
cet accord de parrainage sera de faciliter les contacts
bilateraux et les échanges de cadres, et de permettre des
échanges de vues et d'experience avec une ou des entités
susceptibles de servir de modèle aux services de la DROA.
(b)  mise au point d'un système d'évaluation individuelle fondé
sur des objectifs annuels des postes d'encadrement, et des
indicateurs de performance pour les autres agents aboutis-
sant à une différenciation très nette entre le personnel
performant éligible pour des primes et les autres.
(c)  mise au point d'un système de rémunérations fondé sur des
performances individuelles, ainsi évaluées, pouvant corres-
pondre au moins à 10% de la rémunération de base.
(d)   les ressources du Fonds Routier inclueront le financement
de ces rémunérations complémentaires destinées au personnel
d'entretien routier et seront gérées de façon autonome par
le Fonds Routier.
D. FISCALITE DES ROUTES
15.       Afin de couvrir les besoins de financement de l'entretien courant
et périodique, un recouvrement satisfaisant des coÛts de la route tels
qu'estimés dans le Tableau 3, le Gouvernement prendra les mesures fiscales
suivantes:
(a)   La part de la taxe sur les carburants affectée au Fonds
Routier sera augmentée uniformement (essence et gas-oil) de
8 FCFA par litre; cette augmentation sera applicable à
compter du début de l'année fiscale 1988.
(b)  Des relèvements ulterieurs de la part de la taxe sur le
carburants affectée au Fonds Routier interviendront si
nécessaire, afin de permettre au Fonds Routier d'atteindre
dès 1989 l'objectif d'une couverture de 100% des dépenses
d'entretien courant, de 10% de celle dtentretien périodique
des routes bitumées et de 30% de celles d'entretien
périodique des routes en terre.



- 52 -
ANNEX 2-10
Page 5 of 7
(c>   Alternativement ou de façon complementaire, une taxe à
l'essieu sera Instituée pour mobiliser les ressources
nécessaires pour atteindre les objectifs d'entretien
routier visés ci-dessus.
(d) La taxe ,annuelle sur les véhicules sera ajustée annuelle-
ment de façon à ce que les produits de cette taxe, exprimés
en francs constants, évoluent au mime rythme que celui du
trafic moyen au Bénin.
II. PLAN D'ACTION POUR L'ORGANISATION D'UN BURE&U DE GESTION ROUTIERE
Objet
16.      LE bjet du plan d'action est:
(a)   de mettre en place un Bureau de Gestion Routière;
<b)   d'assurer une centralisation des données techniques sur
l'état et l'entretien du réseau routier; et
(c)   de planifier au niveau national et régional les opérations
d'entretien de routine et périodique pour permettre au
Service de l'Entretien Routier de programmer leur
réalisation.
Moyens
17.       L'Arrêté No. 0021/MET/DGM du 11 août 1985 a crée au sein de la
Direction des Routes et Ouvrages d'Art un Bureau de Gestion Routière qui
devient progressivement opérationnel. Ce Bureau de Gestion Routière, placé
sous l'autorité du Directeur des Routes, a pour objet de gérer l'ensemble
des données ayant trait au réseau routier, notamment:
(a)   données techniques (état, dimension, constitution, etc.);
(b)   données sur le trafic;
(c)   historique (date de construction, date des différents
travaux d'entretien périodique ou de réhabilitation,
évolution des caractéristiques`.
18.       Le processus de collecte systématique et de traitement des
données sera effectif avant le 31 octobre 1987.
19.       L'exploitation de ces données sera le point de départ d'une
programation rationnelle des travaux d'entretien, de réhabilitation, de
renforcement et de reconstruction. Le premier programme d'entretien,
réhabilitation et renforcement sera disponible avant le 31 mars 1988.



- 53 -
ANNEX 2-10
Page 6 of 7
Recueil des Informations sur l'état du réseau
20.       Le Bureau de Gestion Routière établira le point de réfêrence du
réseau et constituera ainsi une banque de données dans laquelle toutes les
caractéristiques techniques des routes seront stockées, avant le 30
juin 1988.
21.       Les informations seront recueillies par analyse visuelle et par
des mesures d'état (uni de chaussées et déflexions). Le Bureau de Gestion
Routière s'attachera également à l'acquisition d'une meilleure connaissance
des données sur les trafics pour mesurer l'intérêt économique de la route
et connattre les sollicitations physiques du trafic sur la chaussée. Il
entreprendra les trois types d'interventions suivantes:
(a)   comptage;
(b)   pesées;
(c>   enquêtes de circulation;
22.       Pour établir l'historique du réseau, le Bureau de Gestion
Routière recherchera toutes les informations concernant les derniers
aménagements réalisés sur les diffèrents axes et les travaux réalisés dans
le cadre d'opérations d'entretien. Dans une deuxième phase, le Bureau de
Gestion Routière se chargera également de réaliser un inventaire des
carrières et matériaux disponibles et de recueillir des données sur la
sécurité du réseau (fichier des accidents notamment).
23.       Le Gouvernement béninois s'est engagé à recruter un expert en
qualité de Chef du Bureau de Gestion Routière, qui organisera et coordon-
nera toutes les activités de se Bureau. Il sera un Ingénieur routier
connaissant tous les aspects techniques et économiques de la gestion d'un
réseau; il devra également avoir des connaissances en informatique et être
capable d'écrire des programmes sur micro-ordinateur. Il organisera et
assurera une partie de la formation du personnel béninois affecté à ce
bureau en telation avec le Chef du Service Formation. Le Gouvernement
s'engage également à nommer un Ingénieur béninois qualifié comme Adjoint au
Chef du Bureau de Gestion et qui sera capable après un ou deux ans de
travail en commun de remplacer le Chef de Bureau expatrié. Le Gouvernement
recrutera également un expatrié en qualité de Technicien routier, chargé
des opérations de terrain (analyse visuelle, mesures à l'APL 25, mesures de
déflexions) et lui adjoindra un homologue béninois capable de le remplacer
dans un délai d'un an maximum.
24.       L'Ingénieur Chef du Bureau de Gestion Routière sera également
chargé de l'organisation des campagnes de comptage, de pesées et d'enquêtes
de circulation. Il sera assisté pour cette tache d'un technicien béninois
qualifié capable de prendre en charge la responsabilité de cette activité
dans un délai maximum d'un an.
Il recrutera également ou nommera:
(a)   un expert spécialiste de 1'APL 25 pour une durée de trois
mois et lui adjoindra un homologue béninois à former;



- 54 -
ANNEX 2-10
Page 7 of 7
(b)   un Economiste des transporte pour la mise au point des
procédures d'études économiques pour une durée d'un mois;
(c) deux béninois dessfnateurs-pupitreurs, chargés de la saisie
des données au clavier et de l'habillage manuel éventuel
des documents de sortie;
(d) une équipe béninoise de comptage-pesage, chargée de la mise
en place et du relevé des compteurs, de l'exécution des
campagnes de pesées, des comptages manuels et des enquetes
routières. Cette équipe pourrait être composée de cinq
personnes.
25.       Pour permettre la mise en place rapide de ce Bureau de Gestion
Routière, l'assistance technique et le matériel de première urgence (voir
annexe) seront pris en charge dans le cadre du quatrième Projet Routier
(Cr. 1142-BEN) et du troisième Projet de Routes Rurales (Cr. 1485-BEN et
SP23-BEN), le restant étant inclus dan' le Projet Infrastructure.
26.       Les indicateurs de performance seront:
- un fichier complet du réseau pour le 31 mars 1988;
- une carte des trafics pour le 31 mars 1988;
- un schéma directeur de programmation des travaux d'entretien
routier pour la période allant de 1988 à 1992 pour
le 31 décembre 1987.
- un rapport d'évaluation du réseau au 30 Juin de chaque année à
partir de 1988.
- un inventaire des carrières et matériaux routiers disponibles
pour chaque tronçon routier pour le 30 juin 1988.
- un fichier de sécurité routière pour le 31 décembre 1988.
WAPTR
April 1987-



, 55 -
»DR4U 2-10
Table  1
1t,0e?LVS RE?UILIC or BEY 1s?
TRANPTORT R                  E
IllALATION AND MUINTENANCE PR9JECT
RtOI» USER CNARGES AnP ROAD USE COSTS
(la CFAP m±ll1on at 1987 prMcee)
19r     1988    198     1990    199   392
T41ATI   00S45( DES ROUES    ---    -*-                          -
Tue  sur les c1 rbrits         5406    5292    5176    5058    4938 4825
Droits de doua
C  véhiciue                 X       32?     3       277     319   359
su  piecus detachoe         70       71      71      72       73    73
Autrus taun  /vhiculn            681     71      755     796      795   793
Tsatioa totale            6492    6408    6306    6203    6124  6040
ceUs 011968  fE LA 1011
mm aum DE
Charges d'entretiqe             4200    4075    4341    4341   .4341  4341
Cauts de 1  police             276      276     276     276      276   276
Frais d'ad, inistr4tion          333     333     U3      333      333   333
Cut total                 49    4683    4950    4950    4950  4950
1683    1725    1356    1253    1174  1090
WÂT
April 1987



-56 -                                          AISI   2-10
s                     I
PEOPE'S REPUBLIC OF siun
TFNSPORT INFEASTIUCTURE
AND lIUNTEKNACE PROJECT
TA161110 D'USAE DES cOUmES
(on mtition de frncs corgatsl
rubriques principales      1987   19m   1989   190   1I1   1992
tAlES SUll WU8URtAIS
Accr.consaa.an.de carbuant  5.002  5.001 5.002  5.002  5.002  5.0;1
Cuso.est.<million litrfes     tOI   106   111    ll    123   12?
taxe ton franc 195/1>          64    60      57    54    51    48
taxe (en frac courantiIl       64    64    64    64    64    64
Rendeent total de 1a taxe    6464  67a7   7127  7483  1857  S2M0
domtttaxatimn qenerale     1058   1177   1310   1458  1623  1807
taxation speciîiqut   5406  5610  5816  6025  6234  6443
AUTRES TAIES D0848E
Sv l iqrtation des vehicules
tau  de croissance nnuelle   7.01  7.02   7.02   7.02   7.02   7.02
vnbicul@ mregistre/anin)    5591   SM2  6401   6049   7329  7842
&cr.eW  tues requis             OZ    02    OZ    0%    OZ    02
tue d'iepart(FCFA LM)         183   790   798   BS   Ol3   821
tue d'iaprt(CFA courant       783   838   899    959   1026   I0M
dnut:taxatioa genale        448   490   555   630   624    618
taxation specifique    33S   348   341    329   402   410
sur l'ieportation des piees detachws
taux de roaimuce anuelle   7.02   1.02   7.01  02   i.02   7.02
act.des taxes requis            OZ    0!    02o   OZ    02Z    0!
tae d'iport<FCFA 1987)        350   353   357   360   363   367
tue d'ieort(FCF& couruat)   350   375   401    429   459   491
dontxtaxation gmeraie       280   300   321    343   367   393
taxation specifique     10     75    80    86    92    98
autres taxes ur vehicules
taes ansuelles voitures       224   266   313   366   397   430
taxes an. cations legerc       81    88    96   106   £09   113
tues an. c'aions lourds       226   249   274   303   314   327
pea4fs et divrs               150   158   165   174   182   191
total                    681    760   848   948   1003  £062
TAION1I D USE TOTALE         6492   6793   7086  7388  7731  8083
22Ua 3SUZ 383  83Z88t   ^-1Jl3a83832         2_aa3--
CNRES RECURRENTES ROUTE    4809  4964  5562  5895  6249  6624
W= =S==:a =2 u azzuz                    :2S
SOLDE                    1683  1828  1524   1493  1482   145?
uumuz S                :uC a3zX a83axa3u33a38333zE3u



AMII 2-10
57 _                                           Tab  3-1
?ZOPLE'S REuLIC OY mtaIN
TENSPOIRT UWRaS?UCTU
AND  IUNTUICE PROJECT
Progr_ do1tretios  ds rehabilitation et oistruetioo
(un illiuns de CFA constants)
Prix de 1g9
197   lm     1989  1lm     199t   l92 Toti1
E nltreti  couet               140    lm     t0o    1872   18787 287   10576
En- Etretiem  ptiodiqu
Matotal fiWIe
Routes Oitua               1151   150    15m    1585   1595   1585   90U
RWtu  en larite             537    53?    537    537    537    537   3221
Routes rurales              £10    110    110    110    1ie    $10    661
total      1UN    215    2232   2232   2232   2232  12l87
2)fon« routier
Routa hitbu                  87    113    159    159    159    159    834
Routes. letetite            107    134    161    161    161    161    86
Rout.srurale                 22     23     33      33     33     33  182
total        216    275    353    3       3S3    353   1902
Si TOTAL ERETIE  RTIER
>total   SiMuac       2     383e   4104   4104   4104   4104  23463
21foW4  routier       1620   1605   I172   1872   1872   1872  10792
t- Remplaceuent  quipbbt    m          237    237    237    237    237   2117
a- Divers
Entretie du   ouvraes        55     55     55     55      55     55    331
(a 1 FCFA>
Essais et contr. Iad.
tu a FAI                    55    5S       55     55      55     55    331
Voierie orain  le à F    22        220    220    220    220    220   1323
Cmtrutio. dowa u            182    182    182    102   12    182   1091
sum total R                 $13    513    513    513    513    513   3076
-Frais qpemrua
Divisins territeriales    106    106    LU        106    le     106    635
SRO                          78     78     78      78     78     78    470
Srvices cutrnuz             149    149    149    149    149    14U    893
total        333     333    333    333    333    Zn   4199
TOTAL SOMEIE    9ITREllTE      504   4920   Sl87   5187   5187   5187  30713
VAPTR
April 1987



- 58 -
ANNEX 2-11
Page l of 3
PEOPLE'S REiUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
REBABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
PLAN D'ACTION POUR LA DEP
Objectifs
L'objet du Plan d'Action ept de permettre à la D4rection des
Etudes et de la Programmation de remplit prioritairement les fonctions
suivantes:
(a) la supervision financière des organismes autonomeà
(statistique, préparation et exécution des budgets);
(b)   la coordination des investissements dans le secteur des
transports dans le cadre de la recherche de son intégration
optimale dans la politique de développement national;
(c)   l'harmonisation des conditions de concurrence inter-modes.
La prise en charge de ces fonctions se fera progressivement, au fur et à
mesure du renforcement technique des cadres de la DEP qui sera poursuivi
dans le cadre du projet. L'objectif fiscal étant d'amener la DEP à jouer
un r8le de plus en plus actif dans l'élaboration de plans d'investissement
et d'amener des équipes d'économistes dispersées au sein du secteur en vue
d'établir un Plan National de Transport.
Moyens
1. Personnel
1.1   Moyens mis er. oeuvre par l'Administration
Les effectifs cadres de la DEP seront graduellement réduits à 14
cadres au 30 juin 1988. Un système d'évaluation du personnel cadre sera
mis en place, avant le 30 juin 1988, selon lequel chaque cadre établira ses
objectifs annuels de travail en accord avec son supérieur hièrarchique, et
sera évalué en fin d'année sur la base de ses performances par rapport à
ses objectifs. Cette évaluation servira de base pour l'attribution d'une
prime répartie de façon homogène entre les agents classés de 1 à 5 selon
leurs performances, chaque classe comprenant le mime nombre d'agents.
L'Administration mettra à disposition de la DEP les moyens budgé-
taires correspondants à la participation béninoise telle qu'évaluée dans le
Tableau I du Plan d'Action. En particulier, l'Administration financera les



- 59;-
ANNEX -2-11
Page 2 of 3
charges résultant fle l'introduction du nouveau systême d'évaluation, esti-
mées à 8,5% de la biasse salariale, sur une base décroissante (tableau ci-
dessous).
1.2   Moyens financés par l'Association
Six homme-mois d'assistance technique répartis en 3 fois 2 mois
pour assister dans lia préparation des programmes de travail individuels et
de la DEP dans son ensemble, et pour conseiller le personnel de la DEP pour
l'exécution de ses travaux, seront financés sur les fonds du Crédit.
2.        Moyens matériels
2.1   Moyens mis en oeuvre par le,MET
L'Administration fournira les fonds budgétaires nécessaires pour
prendre en charge progressivement tout le coût des moyens matériels néces-
saire au fonctionnement de la DEP tels qu'évalués ci-dessous et dans le
tableau 1 du Plan d'Action.
2.2   Moyens vis en oeuvre par l'Association
Les investissements pour le démarrage progressif de la nouvelle
organisation, tels qu'évalués ci-dessous, seront financés sur les fonds du
Crédit selon le tableau 2 du Plan d'Action.
Estimation des moyens matériels nécessaires
au démarrage et au fonctionnement de la DEP
(en millions de FCFA courants)
1988    1989    1990    1991
A. Investissement
Participation IDA                      36,5     5,8     6,6      7,2
Participation Béninoise                   0       0       0        0
Total frais d'investissement           26af    52à       X§       &
Pourcentage participation IDA           100%    100%    100%    100%
B. Fonctionnement
Participation IDA                        6,2     4,9      3,5     1,9
Participation Béninoise                 10,7    13,1    15,7    18,6
Total frais de fonctionnement           16^2    1X8      1 2&    20 
Pourcentage participation IDA           36,7%   27,2%   18,2%    9,3%



- 60 -
ANN8X 2-Il
Page 3 of 3
3.        Formation
3.1 Moyens mis en oeuvre par le MET
La DEP exécutera entre 1987 et 1990 un programme de formation de
son personnel, conformément au Plan d'Action pour la formation du Person
nel. La DEP dégagera un budget de formation pour des actions complémen-
taires, selon le tableau ci-dessous.
3.2   Moyens mis en oeuvre par l'Association
L'Association financera intégralement le program_e prioritaire,
tel que décrit au tableau 3, a hauteur des montants indiqués ci-dessous.
Financement de programme de formation de la DE?
(en million de FCFA courants)
1988    1989    1990    1991
Participation IDA                      7,8     8,3     8,9     9,5
Participation Béninoise               23,5    25,0   *26,6    28,4
Total formation                       31,3    33,3    35,5    37,9
Pourcentage IDA                        25%     252     25Z     25X
En outre, la DEP a pris des contacts avec un organisme d'études
dans le secteur des transports, situé dans un pays développé, en vue
d'aboutir à un accord de parrainage avant le 31 mars 1988. L'objet de
l'accord de parrainage sera de faciliter les contacts bilatérauxer, les
échanges de cadres, et de permettre des échanges de vues et d'expérience
avec une entité susceptible de servir de modèle à la DEP.
VAPTR
April 1987



-61-                                          AIE  2--l
PEOPLE'S REPUIBLIC OP BDENIN
TR  SPORT IN.EUSTRUCTURE
RSUUILtTATION AUM NMINTE?W4CE PROJECT
%tnimtère de l'Esuwimt et des Transports
Particiuation du budget general au budget de la SEP en montant
(en millions de FCFA en prix courants)
1988    198      1990    1991  Total
Fouctiommunton
Permoonel
Salaires           38,229  42,653   49,178  54,242  183,302
Cbargs             12,769   12,953   16,092   18,117   59,930
Primes et indenn.  20,328   22,N69  25,466  214587   96,919
Sous-total permonel         71,326   78,225  89,735  100,945  340,231
Conso.ations
Poste et telsphone    ,214    1,293    t,377    1,466   5,349
Fonct. veuticul     7,646    8,143   8,672    9,236   33,696
Transorts             243      259        5 7    23    1,070
Fournitures bureau      0    1,325   2,022   4,508   8,655
Docutation              0      323      608   1,099   2,111
Entretien             607      646      688      733   2,674
Dies                1,027    1,093    1,165    1,240   4,525
ous-total conumtios         10,736   13,081   15,687   18,576  58,090
TOTAL FOIICTIMElNEt             82,061   91,307  105,422  119,521  398,311
Investissemnts
f ormation
Frais de stage      3,004    3,199    3,407   3,628   13,238
Frais de uyae       6,54    6,980    7,433    7,916   28,8
Frais de suJour     13,926   14,g32   15,796   16,822  61,376
Suas- total forution        23,484   25,010  26,636   28,367  103,496
Equipmnts 
llateriel de bureau     0        0        0        0        0
Vehicules               °        °        O        °        °
Sos- total qup.emts             O        0        °        0        °
TOTAL INYEDTIUBOT               23,484   25,010  26,636   28,367  103,496
£8833 33333u3as3              3338       833338383833  2838*3 33838
TOTAL LIERAI                        105,545  116,317  132,058  147,088  501,007
13                                    8    ams89a  mu*uu  uleu 3



- 62 -
ICEX 2-1 
Table 2
PSOPLE'S REE LIC OF DENIS
TEANSPORT InFEASTEUCTUU
REHIABKITATION AND MAINTEAICUC PROJECT
llinistere de l'Equipmnt et d   trasports
Participation de I)IDA au budget de la DEP en pourmtqe
i908     lu       1990     lm
Fouctioimeemt
fersonel
Salaires                 0K       0K       0K       01
Charges                  02       0K       02       02
Prim  et indemn.         02       02      0o       0O
Consoeuticms
Poste et telephone       02       0K      0a        el
Fontt. vehicules         02       0K       0K       0K
Transports               02      0       0        02
Fournitures bureau     100l      752      50      252
bcu#ntation            100K       5       50K      X5
Entretien                0K       02       02       OS
Divers                   02       0K       0K       02
Investisemts
ans       s
Formtion
Frais de stage          25K      252      X2       2
Frais de voyage         252      252      X25      25X
Frais de sejour         251      252      252      251
Equipments
Iateril de bureau      100I     100l     l002     1002
Vehicules              100K     100I     1002     100



- 63 -                                           ANNEX 2-Il
Table 3
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC O? BENIN
TRANSPORT  RTRUCTRE
REHAILITATION AN1) MAINTENANCE PROJECT
llinistert de l'Eouipuent et du Transports
Particigation de 1'IDA du budget de la DEP en #ontant
ien mIlliOn  de FCFA en Dni cwantss
1908     19fl    190       1991   Total
Fonctionnemt
Personnel
Salaires                 0        °        °        °        O
Charges                  O        O        O        O        O
PrM      et Indemn.      0        0        0        0        0
sous-total personnel              0        0        0                  O
Consommtions
Poste ett tlephne        0    0            0        0         0
Fonct. vehicules         O        O        O        °        °
Transports               O        O        °        °        °
Fournitures bureau   4,976    3,974    2,822    1,503   13,275
Docuumtation         1,214      969      65       36     3,238
Entretien                0        0        0        0        0
Divers                   °        °        O        O        °
sous-total consmtions         6,189    4,944    3,510    1,869   11,513
TOTAL FOIICTlGIUIEHEIT            6,t89    4,944    3,510    1,869   16,513
Investismumnts
Formtion
Frais de staQe       1,001    1,066    1,136    1,209    4,413
Frais de voyqge      2,18S    2,32J    2,471    2,639    9,628
Frais de sejour      4,642    4,944    5,265    5,607   20,459
Sous- total forution          7,828    8,331    8,879    9,45    34,4"9
Equipeents
tateriel de bureau  11,469    5,752    6,607    6,597   30,425
Vehicules           25,001        0        0      596   25,5B7
Sous- total equipemts        36,469    5,752    6,607    7,183  5%,012
TOTAL IESTISSEIIUITS            44,297   14$008   1,406   16,639   90,510
TOTAL 6ERI.L                          50,487   19,032   18,996   18,508  107,023
WAPTR
A_»1  1nQ



- 64 -
ANNEX 2-12
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
PAC INVESTMENT PLAN FY1987-1990
(in million CFAP at current prices)
a/               1987    1988    1989    1990    Total
A. Priority ProZra. -
Port Infrastructure
Maintenance and Rehabilitation  1,000   1,000       900        O    2,900
Shlp Repair                          0      100       0               - 1oo
Sub total                        1,000   1,100      900       0    3,000
B.  Subsidiary Program  /
Vorkshop reconstruction
<with OBEMAP)                        0   2,000        0       0         0
Extension Fishing port             100   3,500   2,450   1,050    7,100
Miscellanous equipment               5        5       5        5       20
Rehabilitation fishing port
equipment                         60        0       0       0        60
Sub total                          165   5,505   2,455   1,055    7,180
Grand Total                11625  6"q,5   255    "O    10.18
a/ Detail in Project Cost Table (Annex 3-1) and Project Description
(Chapter III).
b/ This program ls not yet supported by economic justifications and its
implementation is subordinated to conclusive studies being made.
Source: Project Cost Estimates (Annex 3-1) and PAC, Programme
d'investissement.
AAPTR
April 1987



- 65 -
ANNEX 2-13
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT INFRhSTRUCTURE
REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OBEMAP INVESTMENT PIAN. FY1987-1989
(in million CFAF, 1985 prices)
1987       1988        1989       Total
Buildings
Administrative Building             25          --         --          25
Building for Stevedores              5          --         --           5
Vorkshop                            --          75         75         150
Sub-Total                    30         75          75         180
Esuipment
Cargo Handling Equipment            35          35         35         105
Equipment Rehabilitation            50          50         52         152
Vorkshop Equipment                              30          26         56
Workshop Band Tools                 -           45          40         85
Sub-Total                    85         160        153         398
Total                       il                                 578
Source: OBEMAP.
WAPTR
An.4 1 1 0R7



- 66 -                         ANNEX 2-14
Page i of 2
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
RERABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
PAST AND ONGOING PROJECTS
IN THE TRANSPORT SECTOR IN BENIN
Highway Maintenance and Engineering Project (Credit 215-DA)
1.        This first highvay project had three components: (a) a 4-year
highway maintenance program including the reorganization of the Directorate
of Public Works and training of personnel; (b) detailed engineering and
preparation of bidding documents for the reconstruction of about 318km of
highways; and (c) support to the Directorate of Land Transport. A credit
for US$3.5 million vas approved on September 9, 1970, and fully disbursed
at the closing date of December 31, 1974. The project was successful and
the economic rate of return (ERR) calculated after completion vas found to
exceed 42%, compared to the 30% appraisal forecast.
Benin Second Righway Project (Credit 415-DA)
2.        The main objective vas to rehabilitate the Parakou-Malanville
road that is part of the Benin route between the sea coast and landlocked
Niger and to continue the maintenance program. Credit 415-DA vas approved
for US$11.8 million on April 4, 1973 and on March 10, 1976 for an addition-
al US$9.0 million. Disbursement vas 87.5% of total credit at the comple-
tion date of May 15, 1977. The remainder of US$2.6 million vas cancelled.
The objectives vere not totally achieved: the design vidth of the road has
proven to be insufficient for the higher than expected traffie vhich devel-
oped and institution building made little progress. The weighted average
ERR at reevaluation vas 16% compared to the appraisal estimate of 13%.
Third Highway Project (Credit 746-BEN)
3.        The project vas essentially a follow-on of the Second Righway
Project. Main components included: (a) rehabilitation and resurfacing of
575km of bituminous and laterlte roads; (b) strengthening of the ongoing
routine maintenance program; (c) technical assistance to the Ministries of
Public Works and Transport. Credit 746-BEN vas approved on November 8,
1977 for US$10 million and closed on June 30, 1983. On its construction
component, the project yielded a re-estimated ERR of 122% but overall, the
project vas moderately successful. The slow government administration, a
limited absorptive capacity for technical assistance and the poor perform-
ance of a contractor vere constraining factors.
Fourth Higihay Project (Credit 1142-BEN)
4.        The Fourth Highway project is designed to: (a) continue the
program for rehabilitation of paved and gravel roads; (b) improve the orga-
nization and administrative procedures of the Directorates of Roads and
Bridges; tc) train local staff to maintenance tasks; (d) institute axle-
load control and road safety programs.  Credit 1142-BEN was approved on



- 67 -NEX 2-14
Page 2 of 2
closing date has been extended to December 31, 1987. The overall project
lmplementation is good.
First Feeder Road Proiect (Credit 717-BEN)
5.        The objective vas mainly te improve the rural roads under the
Zou-Borgou Cotton Project, thereby supportlng rural development, and to
strengthen the institutional framework for the adequate maintenance of the
feeder road network. Credit 717-BEN was approved in May 1977 for US$5.5
million and vas fully diabursed at the closing date of September 30, 1981.
A special Feeder Roads Division (SRDR) vas established under the proJect
but local staffing, organizational and administrative probleme had a nega-
tive impact on the overall performance which fell short of expectations:
only 318 km of roads have been actually improved compared to the 845 km
projected at appraisal. Nevertheless as described in the folloving para-
graph, the overall development of the project has still been positive.
Second Feeder Road Project (Credit 1090-BEN)
6.        The Second Feeder Road Project vas to continue the feeder road
development program initiated under the Flrst Feeder Road Project. It in-
cluded the construction of 700 km of roade and their maintenance plus main-
tenance of the roads constructed under the previous projecte. Credit 1090-BEN
vas approved on December 23, 1980 for SDR 5.5 million (US$7.0 million equl-
valent) and almest fully diabursed by closing date of June 30, 1984. Per-
formanee improved significantly and SRDR has developed into one of the most
effective agencies vithin the Government. The overall ERR for the tvo
feeder road projecte vas reestimated as 30% or above the appraisal esti-
mates.
Third Feeder Road Project (Credit 1485-BEN)
7.        The project includes: (a) a 3-year construction program of 840 km
of feeder roads and, on a pilot basis of low standard tracks; (b) mainte-
nance of about 2,000 km of feeder roade; (c) technical assistance and
training. Credit 1485-BEN vas approved on May 29, 1984 for SDR 5.7 mil-
lion. Implementation started in January 1985 and the vorks are progressing
Veil.
Cotonou Port Project (Credit 826-BEN)
8.        The project vas the first Bank Group operation in the port sector
in Benin. A credit for US$11 million was approved on June 8, 1978, further
increased to US$19.3 million on July 10, 1979. The objectives of the proi-
ect vere: (a) to provide additional capacity at Cotonou port to accommodate
the increasing traffic; (b) to improve the operational and financial per-
formance of PAC, the autonomous port agency, and the cargo handling com-
pany. The institution building and technical assistance components vere
successfully implemented at the credît's closing date of December 31, 1984.
Construction vas carried out vith only minor problems. The economie
benefits did not materialize as expected because the traffic projection vas
proven too optimistic in relation to transit to Nigeria, but overall the
project had a satisfactory rate of return.
WAPTR
April 1987



-68-
Anz3-1
1. na"-M   uww                                                           nmu
3 Ttat                                    Y *ebl
cm MM ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~3aIBS                                                                         Fua01
UU*UT UU  PW  iuswm             1belles  1.5.5 2.574.0         di     15  3 .  4 .  & .                  ai      Il
EmmuTA              0*00                        10.4  10tt. 2. 3            a       a   2*003.9 4w3344 7f130.3         61      13
virjililllu         l -800                  1.132.0  .im5  2,07.          a        7 U.6IS  .0 s.9 91467.0           6*      Il
1U1iAUZ m             m9.7    0.  2.401                                      66     S4  2044.9   .-166 14-.6           46      14
I Ils cSm=   «1M             10ma               1.    C26        704.2       73      4    a"   h676   28.37--    75-            4
f01a &m   U 1                                   W37.#   540.2   64          M        4    462 1.71& 3 r.15i.5          80       4
3_11uo tl-uo                   m a   mI 5.1  ua   oéa    *    1   M#.  Mu  3.  40 14-  à
aumiO     GuI                                 6*4   214.4   2.            le      a    354   010.2 1.014-    i0              2
Su-Toabl CJ911 UI                                4.30.0  7.W2.7 11,127.0       44      71  13.64.4 24e.t392.131 h0.       U6     70
I. Elii
UI»W S   1Y  IIK IIGU                            79   151.1   230.1         M        I    21.4   401.3   M.7           6       1
:>U FulS $88 m  Oum                              5.6    22.e    7J.4        Ot       *     t7.      7-0      1.0       a       o
usU    _'                                        25.8   101.8   127.6       e0       I       .    32.e   406.2         80 
m1n u          oe  am IO                         0.6    33.97   42.S        80   e         27.4      .0   135.4   St           0
$*-Total  lm1.9   3.    47.0                                                   n        3     7.0   1036 12.4             n2 
c.   _e m          _i
am  1      1G   EaulffhT                           - 1.00.4  1.4           100      11        - 5.742.5 5e742.1       100     Il
Miu?Dll   7O1m 1e1 Pl9t                            -   124.0   124.0        100      1        -   395.0   3-0         100      I
801180 g    imlm  fIOflO,  m  m  MW                      56.2    56.2       100      e        -   17d.9   M7g9        100      I
MuNDIEI    _. -   245.0   265.0                                             m00      2        -    43-.9   84.9       10       2
*-TtaWl £I«OMt AnDS                                   - 2.254.6 2.52.6        l0      I          -13  7l.3  7.1t0.3      10      13
AUSt                                             9.9    55.5   6S.4         SS       O      1t.    17.4   20.2         S5      0
m11If  8l0100 StUDY                             9.1    5se      60.e       eS            29.0 1e2.2   19i.2          8S      O
SlfISIl  1 l00   ttt1ISUT   OFU4                I»,7   110.3  1MA4          85       I     a2.9   31.4   414.3         M       1
01OISION P M t 1LIt4TI                          22.-   127.3   t50.1        S             72.6 n    6.5   41.0        05      I
âi-Total# hiUllUl m6.                                    44.0   45.          SS      2    161  1,05.  1.97             15       2
r. iiaaoe AUsMu
1OUIm, £S1          m31    PMOR    IMlt1        34.2   191.0   M.           es       t     00.    6002    n17.0        1       1
1taMC  hiSlTu m10  mIlm                         21.3  I1te      140.1       s       I      67.7   Jtd-4   44.1         8s      à
TECNlt mm           m  mU t MNl                127.   712.9   04.           os      S    40.4 2270.5 2ash.9           os       s
TEawcaL £l117E  mOR TMIo         I   5          13J.    77.a    01.0        a        I     44.4   240S   2M.2          os      t
-   -    7._ _   _    .   _       _     -   62. _  7_              ................... - .
*-Totul I      %      tIUs 07.0 wees  1.375                                    e5      S    63  3.505.  4124              S       e
1MMt       MW1SU                                48.3   2.9   310.2          as      2    153.0  MS.6 1013.4            OS      2
tR91*  Tltl PMT                                 15.5    86.8   102.3        85       1     49.5   D6.5   3259          S       1
Tru0 Fw  EW                                      0.1    45.3    53.4        es      e      25.s   t1.2   170.0         es      o
Lo-TOto tUmIm                                      71.9   402.0   4n.t         es      J     1229.1  1.2W.2  1.59.       SS       3
e. PWAtT f§       1  YiCilty
PRoK w       n1TOFnI ruilmys                       -   1215.6   156        100       I        -   400.0   400.0       100      I
P      fna P9110TI.rM PORT                         -   125.6   125.6       100      I             400.0   400.0    lo         t
mFm T   oet4   CM  181tîmu73-4                     -         62.8          100      O             200.0      .0      100       O
S*-ToUa PIRECT PifPtIlI F*EILITY                           3U4.0   314.0      800      2        -  .000».0   .0.0 -     100       2
o"l llt1  COlTS                                     4.74.-412M..87.101,2           7     100 n1.125.6 39o336-0 5.462.4       72    la
fPnttal Conttaomtes                                662.2 1,504.S 2t167.0        69     13  2.10l0.  4.792.3 6.90.2  :   69        13
P,loe Cotimtas                                      764.9 2.110.5 2875.4        73      17  2.4.9  .721.4 9.157.2         73      17
total fPuT  cWTS                                      176.5 154W.9 22.1434        12 In   19.670.4 5 4te.s 70#520.        _  72    129



-69-
ANNEX 3-2
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC O? BENIN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN
(it US$ million)
Currently, co-financing arrangements are underway. At present
the detailed financing status i8 as follows:
a/
ypes         Financiers' Mames        Amount       Statue -         Country
Official              IDA                 19.5           C         International
Official             CCCE                  2.4           C _/         France
Official              EDF                 23.0           C         International
Official              FAC                  1.4           C            France
Official              IDB                  4.6           C         International
Official             BOAD                  6.2           C         International
Official              ADF                  8.6           C         International
Governuent              4.8                         Benin
Total Financing                      70.5
a/ C: Confirmed
b/ CCCE and FAC expressed deslre to take the whole OBEMAP component.
WAPTR
April 1987



-          N
ts ~~~~~~~---  F-P---'''---  »- -t-
3    5             1              '             151 iJ, III
-   -   -      -   -      -   -   - -  --      -   -  - -   -   - -  --      -   -t         - - - - - - - - 
-    -     -     e --                                                              I            I
.     - - -- - ------                                       ----- ----
--*   - - .   -    - - -    .-- -  * - - - -
------   _,----------_    --                     --Î-___                              -}     
-          ,       .- -     -    *.-- - ---
-          -                 *       -  - -   .----   -  -   .-  -            - -- - 
*-               *            s             *s                 *s         *b 
C -                              *                                                       --- - , . . - - - -fi
*~~                                                                                  aU.__         
~~~~~~*                                  *                          _                w,.-.. ,_. .,|
I    _   _   _  .. . , .... _                                           t..      i
i.                                           s                     I 
s                                        1s
s " ~~~~-----_-- -- -- ----
---------  ----------:  ----                                         ~            ~ï
.... -                 - - - - - - - -                 - - - -          --  -
-                  .. . ...  .....    ..- - -..
Z                                             e° tt-t
*- -                                         e 



m  [l [ Xl [M r                f l 3l{      r[!q test  f [ m
__ _ __    _   _       ___    .__    _         _+t_
.~~~ ^I            
------  ---                                            -------------  __  __  __  
III~~~~ 'i _iiu  I*iIj                            ij 
- -    -     -    -     -      -                             .----          ---
. - -           -  -   - - - - -
-  -   -   -   -   - -  -   -   -  -    - -  -  -   -   -  - -  - - --     I -  -
--- b--*           ---     --   ---  ---- -             - --   i-
- - - - - - -       ----ï     
S  SS                                                               i    
- - - - -- - --  - -               - - - - - - - - - - - --
,-    -     -     -     -     -     -     --  -        i
_ _ _ _  _ _ _    _ ...--------------------- ï_
_~~~~~~~~~~ - - - - *- - - - - - -- - - - - -i ---   
a~~~~ ....                                                      __..._.*    _   .._______C      
:~~~~~~~ j_: 
- -                                                s - f   - -
1-
_ _    ".   - .. .. .---- . -f-   I
t-C xmv                                         - IL -



_U_Dtti t2u1 flUrITIm PBENIN TRANSPORT INFRASTR. PROJECT
E* K_ 100 -E td Dbbursment ProfUs
__iuta    St ...  .ddl                           _  _ ._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _
Ma d             e_tAtn   dinUw   CS^iati                     90                                           ,
Em Of d  immt Utt_m.ts iaiumh ntgu* wuut
brto    <US 'US>  <ws '000   f. ESt.> lAi. Proile>
-  -=   -                                         [80 
31m.     11W      1100       «f        5  2 
50 
1_1t«* 40 r
Jl-U      1U       40        204a     tu                       20'r
on~~~~~~~~~~
1i_^      115      AIl       E         w,
551.      lIN      00       41        400-2 
"~~~~~l                 èu        «                             rM      PM  :fn   : FY90m1 :FP92  :Ym3  mY4
*Assumed date of Credit Ef fectiveness: October 31, 1987
u"        atm       m        su
1-1.i    a40      mne .                =                       *ln accordance vith Di0butsemet Profile for WAX
Ttansportation IBRD and IDA updated as of October 1985.
mi~ ~ ~ ~~
us-w-w    am      tim        su        ou
11_<    oi     au                                               .F:SF 9OF1:Y 2:Y3F g
mibrn     le      t""        u         m
April 1987
April ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~t.spraie 1987n  W    pae  a   fOtoe   95



- 73 -
ANNEa 3-5
Page I of 2
PEOPLE'S REPUELIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT INPRASTRUCTURE
REIABILITATION AND NAINTENANCE PROJECT
REPORTING REQUiÇ9NS FOR TUE HIG6WAY COMPONENT
1.        The technical assistance tea, for road maintenance Vill prepare
end submit the folloving reports:
(a)   Au lnception Rev*?t.  Tvo months after the starting date of
the services, prewanting a general Plan of Action for ail
project highway component.  In particular, the report vill
specify:
(1)   DROA's management framework including a detailed
organization chart vith job descriptions of key
personnoel delegation and communication lines;
DROA's budget format and procedures, other proce-
dures for planning, running, and controlling DROA's
operations and a list of mamuals, guidelines aad
forme;
(fi)   the vork progrm  for the different divisions and
nits;
(iii)   the timing of technical assistance inputs as a
function of the vork program;
(iv)   the availability of qualified Beninese staff to
carry out the work program;
(v)   the availability of resources (equipment and means
for its oporations, offices, workshops to carry out
the work program; and
(b)   Progress Reportin.  Startitg in the fourth month of proj-
ect execution, the supervision team vill assist DROA to
prepare and submit progress reports as follows:
1iuarterly reports. not later than 21 days after the end of
the quarter specifying the statue of all project componuents
includIng:
- equipment and personnel mobilized by contractors;
- quantity and quality of vorks carried out during
the month or specific road sectors, analyzed as to
the varlous units of vork performed.



- 74 -
AMNEX 3-5
Page 2 of 2
- instruction and recoumendations given each month by
the consultant.
- statue of payment8 and diabursements by contract
and category.
- quantity and quality of labor based vorks carried
out by provincial units during the month on spe-
cific roat sections, for relevant unit items.
- procurement being prepared and carried out.
- results of co0t accouating for the quarter.
- revised vork program for the following six month
period.
This report should include consultants' recommendations tnd
commente; p,erformance analysis for each regional unit and
for the DR9A as a whole. Based on this analysis the amouat
of performince bonuses to be paid to the personnel vill be
calculated.
(c)   a preparation report for a proposed follow-up project; and
(d) a project completion report on the implementation
experience and project achievement vithin six monthu of the
Credit closin8 date.
AAPTR
April 1987



- 75 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 1 of 9
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
RERABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
PORT SUB SECTOR
(Detailed Calculations are Available in the Project File, Document No. 3-1)
A. Repair of the Old Commercial Quays
1.    Description of envisaged investment
Installation of cathodic protection, vith an economic life of 15
years.
2.    Cost
Estimated cost CFAF 196 million at 1985 prices.
3.    Base case
In the base case, no cathodic protection is installed and the
sheet pile of the quays vill be left to rust avay. It la esti-
mated that the structure vill become unstable by the year 2000
and vill have to be entirely reconstructed.
4.    Tine period and residual value
The time period for the economic analysis is 30 years. By the
year 2015, cathodic protection vill have been replaced once (in
2000), and the quay having reached the end of its economic life
(50 years) in the "with" case vill have a zero residual value.
lu the "vithout" case, the quay has been reconstructed in the
year 2000.
5.    Expected costs and benefits (Table 1)
The expected costs are:
(a) the cost of cathodic protection in 1986 (CFAP 196 million)
and its reneval in the year 2000 at the same cost;
(b) the annual maintenance cost of the cathodic protection,
estimated at CFAF 2.0 million per annum;



- 76 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 2 of 9
(c) additional skip vaiting cost during execution of vorks
(1.2 months of occupancy of one berth). The resulting dhip
vaiting cost is CFA? 18.4 million in 1986 for an occupancy
rate of 35% (conditions of 1985), and CFAF 10S million at
the time of cathodic protection reneval (year 2000) based
on year 2000 traffie and an occupancy rate of 62Z in that
year (detail in Project File 3-1).
The expected benefits are:
(a) avoidance of total reconstruction cost in the year 2000;
(b) avoidance of additional ship vaiting cost durlng recons-
truction. The disturbance due to reconstruction vould
increase the occupancy rate on remaining berths from 62 to
72% (the Eastern breakwater in not suitable for berthing
general cargo vessels), and the corresponding cost, based
on ship vaiting cost, is CFAP 1,048 million for per year,
i.e. CFAF 1,572 million for a reconstruction period of 18
mnths. It is assumed that this additional cost vould be
imposed by the shipping companies on the Beninese economy
as a surcharge (detail in Project File 3-1);
(c)  avoidance of repair cost in the "vithout" case estiated at
CFAF 5 million every other year.
6.    Economic rate of returu  (Table 1)
The economie rate of return i. 23.22.
7.    Sensitivity
Sensitivity analysis have been carried out for:
(a)  an investment cost 152 higher than estimates.  The corre-
sponding ERR la 221;
(b)  assuming that the year of reconstruction ln the  lvithout"
case is 2005 instead of 2000. The corresponding ERR la
21.7%.
B. Protection of the South Bank of tiie Basin
1.   Description of envisaged lnvestuent
Construction of vooden groins to prevent accumulation of sand in
the port basin, with an economil life of 30 years.
2.   Cost
Estimated cost CEAF 57.3 million at 1985 prices.



- 77 -
ANME 4-1
Page 3 of 9
3.    Base case
In the base case, no protection ie installed and the electric
transformer, the electric pover line to the port lîghthouse and
the road for the maintenance of the Western breakvater vill be
vashed avay by the vave action.
Dredging of the basin vill be needed at a 10-year interval, at a
co0t of CFAF 85 million.
4.    Time perlod and residual value
lu the "ith" case, the economic life of the vooden groins is
taken as 30 years. There vill be no residual value in the year
2015.
In the "vithout" case, the situation in the year 2015 vith dredg-
ing carried out in 1995 and 20re vll be the same as nov.  There
is no residual value on corresponding maîntenance/dredging coste.
5.    Expected costs and benefits (Table 2)
The expected costs are:
<a) construction of protection: CFAF 57.3 million;
(b) maintenance of protection: CFAP .5 million annually.
The expected benefits are:
(a) avoidance of dredging cost for CFA? 85 million in 1995 and
2005;
(b) avoidance of displacement of electrlc transformer, electric
poaer Une: CFAF 43 million in 1986;
(c) avoldance of reconstruction of a section of the maintenance
access road on the Western breakwater: CFAF 29.3 million
in 1990.  The initial dredging cost to reestablish the
depth of the basin is lncurred both in the "vith" and the
"vithout" cases: therefore, it la not taken intc account.
These i no measurable Impact on ship vaiting/operation
time, neither in the "vith" nor in the "vithout" case.
6.    Economlc rate of return
The economic rate of return i 33%.
7.    Sensitivity analysis
A sensltivity analysis has been carried out:



- 78 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 4 of 9
(a) vith capital cost increased by 15%. The corresponding ERR
le 24.4%;
(b) with displacement of electrie transformer, pover line and
road postponed by 5 years.  The corresponding ERR ls 14.7%.
C. Eastern Breakwater
1.    Description of envisaâed investment
The works to be carried out on the eastera breakwater are:
(a) repairs to the roundhead of the eastern breakwater:
reinforcement with concrete of sections exposed to
corrosion, and installation of sheet pile cathodic
protection;
(b) repair of outer aide of breakwater: reinforcement vith con-
crete of upper part of the structure, installation of sheet
pile cathodic protection and spot repairs;
(c) repair of inner aide of breakwater: installation of sheet
pile cathodic protection, and spot repaira;
(d) lmplant of the Eastern breakwater: double-llning the sheet
pile vall on the implant of the breakwater.
2.    Cost
Estimated coste at 1985 prices are as follow:
(a)  Repaire to the roundhead of the breakvater: CFAF 42
million;
(b)  Repair of outer aide quay vall      : CFAF 413 million;
(c)  Repair of inner aide quay vall      : CFAF 142 million;
(d)  Repair of breakwater implant        : CFAP  91 million.
3.    Base Case
Vithout the project, investuent requirements vould be as follows:
(a) Roundhead of the breakvater. A complete reconstruction of
the roundhead would be necessary by 1995 at a cost of
CFAP 194 million, including cathodic protection;
(b) Breakwater outer aide. The reconstruction of the outer
aide of the breakwater vould be necessary in 1996, at a
co0t of CPAF 2,152 million, including cathodic protection;



- 79 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 5 of 9
(c) Breakwater inner side. The reconstruction of the outer
side of the breakwater would be necessary by the year 2000,
at a coet of CFAF 2,357 million, including cathodic
protection;
(d)  Implant of eastern breakwater.  The reconstruction of the
implant vould be necessary by 1995, àt a cost of CFAP 282
million.
4.    Time period and residual value
(a) Roundhead of breakwater. In the "vithout" case, the
economic life of the reconstructed structure vould be 50
years. Cathodic protection vould last for 15 years.
Residual value in 2015 vould be 30 years of economic life
for the structure and 10 years for cathodic rrotection. lu
the "vith" case, the repaired structure and cathodic
protection vill have reached the end of their economic
life. Their residual value is zero.
(b) Breakwater outer side. In the "vithout" case, the new
structure has an economic life of 50 years, and cathodic
protection is replaced every 15 years. In 2015, the recon-
structed structure vill have a residual economic 14fe of 30
years, and the cathodic protection vill have a remaining
lfe of 10 years. In the "with" case the economic life of
the repaired concrete structure is 30 years. In the year
2015, the new structure and the cathodic protection vill
have a zero residual value;
(c) Breakwater inner aide. In the "vithout" case, the recon-
structed structure has an economic life of 50 years, and
cathodic protection is to be renewed every 15 years. In
the year 2015, the structure vili have a remaining economiic
life of 35 years.  The cathodic protection vill have a zero
remaining economic life.  In the "vith" case, the repaired
vall has au economic life of 30 years as of 1986. In the
year 2015, its economic life as vell as the economic life
of the cathodlc protection vill be zero.
(d) Implant of breakwater. In the "vithout" case, the recon-
structed structure vill have an economic life of 50 years,
and a residual value in the year 2015 of 30 years. In the
"vith" case, the double-lining has an economic life of 50
years, and a residual value of 20 years in 2015.



- 80 -
ANN  4-1
Page 6 of 9
5.    Expected co0ts and benefits
(a) Roundhead of breakwater
-  Costa:
. Investment cost:                  CFAF 42 million in 1986
. Renewal of Cathodic protection:  CFAF 15 million in 2000
. Annual maintenance:               CFAF  .16 million
-  Benefits:
. Avoided replacement cost: CFAF 194 million in 1995
. Avoided cathodic protection in the "vithout" case:
CFA! 15 million in 1995 and 2010
. Avoided maintenance in the "vithout" case:
Paint: CFAF 5.7 million in 1985 and CFAP 4.2 million
in 1990; spot repair CFA! 1.8 million every other year;
cathodie protection maintenance: CFAF .16 million annually.
(b) Breakwater outer side.
Costa:
*Investment cost CFAF 413 million in 1986, plus
CFAF 171 million for reneval of cathodic protec-
tion in 2000.
• Maintenance of cathodic protection in the "vith" case:
CFA! 1.5 million annually.
•Dieruption of traffic in "with" case: the vorks would
be limited to the outer side of the breakwater, which
is not used for berthing ship.  Although some pertur-
bation of traffic may happen durîng execution of
works, it is considered negligible.
- Benefits:
Avoidance of reconstruction cost: CFA! 1,981 million
in 1995 plus cathodic protection CFAF 171 million in
1995 and 2010.
Avoidance of maintenance cost ln the "vithout" case:
painting in 1985 for CFA? 49.6 million, and 1991 for
CFA! 35.8 million; spot repaira CFAF 5.3 million every
other year until 1995.
. Avoidance of disruption of traffic in the "vithout"
case: negligible.
(c) Breakwater Inner aide
- Costs:
. Investment cost CFAF 142 million in 1986, plus
CFAF 142 million in year 2000 for cathodic
protection.
. Naintenance of cathodic protection: CFAF 1.4 million
annually.
. Dieruption on traffic in "vith" case: negligible.



- 81 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 7 of 9
- Benefites:
. Avoided reconstruction cost: CFA? 2,215 million ln
year 2000;
. Cathodie protection: CPAF 142 million ln year 2000;
. Avoidance of maintenance of cathodic protection ln
"vithout" case CFAF 1.4 million annually from year
2000 on.
. Avoidance of spot repaire: CJAP 5 million every other
year.
. Avoidance of traffic disruption ln "vithout" case:
negligible.
(d) Implant of breakwater.
- Costa:
• Investment cost in "vith" case: CFAF 91 million ln
1986.
• Maintenance cost in "with" case: zero.
- Benefits:
. Avoidance of reconstruction cost: CFAF 282 million in
1993.
. Avoidance of maintenance cost in "vithout" case:
paint: CFA! 8.9 million in 1985 and CFAF 6 million in
1991; replacement of material vashed avay: CFA! 2.9
million every other year from 1986 to 1994.
6.    Economic rate of return (Table 3)
The estimated economic rate of return is: 21.02.
7.    Sensitivity analysis
With capital cost increased 15%: ERR - 19.0%
With reconstruction date postponed by 5 years: ERR - 11.1%
8.    Distribution of Benefits
For all components. except the repair of the old commercial quay,
the benefits are savings on future reconstruction cost and main-
ten -ce.  They are entirely appropriated by the Port Authority
(PAC). Being a parastatal, it can be assumed that all net bene-
fits vould be passed on to port usera and final consumers througb
lover tariffs than in the "vithout" case.
For the commercial quay, all benefits accrue to ?AC, except for
the savings on ship vaiting time. In the present case, the re-
construction of the old quay vould take place in the year 2000,
when the occupancy rate vill be 621. At such a fairly high rate,
the Increase ln ship vaiting time durîng reconstruction may
justify a port surcharge by ahipping companies. Therefore, the



- 82 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 8 of 9
avoldance in this surcharge, equivalent to the value of ship
vaiting time is considered as a benefît accruing directly to
the final consumer.
D. Dredging
1.    A siltation trap had been provided under the Cotonou Port Project
together vith a eut-off breakwater. They are proven ineffective.
The trap is already filled and about 25W,000 m3 of soft soil must
nov be dredged to restore the 12.5 m designed depth in the chan-
nel alloving ships with a actual 10.6 m draft to enter the port.
The current access limitation has already had practical conse-
quences: a dry bulk carrier loaded vith 23,000 tons of limestone
vas lightered prior to its normal berthing ln January 1986 to
reduce its draft to the present 10.2 m limlt.
2.   The dredging cost is estimated at CFAF 330 million, in 1985
prices includiug physical contingencies.   Without the proposed
dredging, draft constraints vould be increasing until a minimum
acceptable level of 9.2 m. Such a limit corresponds to the
actual requirements of mOst shipping services to and from Benin.
A survey of all vessels calling at Cotonou in 1985 indicates that
about 80% drafted 8 m and above and 35%, 9.2 m and above, vith
the latter mostly carrying crude oil, llmestone and bagged staple
foods. Noticeable is the relatively high draft of most modern
carriers, RoRo and containerships. Not maintaining the entrance
channel at minus 11 la (maximum admissible draft plus 20%) vould
cause a disruption of normal services provided by the maritime
conferences at a very high cost to Benin.
3.    Benefits of the proposed dredging to maintain the optimal depth
in the entrance channel are derived from savinge in maritime
transport of crude oil and limestone vhich i assumed to grow at
an average 5% yearly rate.
(a) hydrocarbons are imported from a variety of sources, some
close to Benin (Ivory Coast, Nigeria) and other distant
(Brazil). Trafflc in 1985 was about 250,000 tons of which
33% are from distant sources and only considered in the
analysis. The comparison between a ship normally loaded at
15,000 tons and the same ship carrying ouly 12,500 tons
gîves, fo r a 6,000 miles roundtrip a saving of US$2 per
ton.
(b)   Limestone is again being imported in large quantities.
Sources are located mostly ln the West Mediterranean area
(in particular Spain). The comparison between a 30,000 dut
bulk carrier vîth a 25,000 tons payload and the saxe vith
20,000 tons only gives, for an average 3,200 miles round-
trip a saving of US$1 per ton.



- 83 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 9 of 9
(c)  These savingS would be obtained in full once the minimal
acceptable depth level is reached. In the interim period,
they would be reduced in accordance with the slltation
factor progressively going from G in year 1 to 1 in year 5.
4.    The siltation procesa has yet to be studied.  Funds vill be pro-
vided under the project to analyze it. Based on the experience
of the previous 5 years, the economic analysis assumes that the
minimal acceptable depth level would be reached in 5 years after
which regular dredging would resume. The proposed dredging ls a
recurrent expenditure to be repeated every 4 years. Without the
project, dredging vould be needed from year 5 on at the same cost
as in the project case and will be repeated at intervals of 6
years.
5.    The economic rate of return (ERR), based on these assumptions is
26% (see Table 4). The sensitivity analysis included two cases:
(a) actual freight savings only 66% of those expected, and (b)
dredging costs 25% higher. The respective rates of return are
for each case 17% and 21% respectively. The ERR ia reduced to
13% by their combined occurrence.
WAPTR
April 1987



- 84 -
AIX  4-1
Table 1
PEOPL'S EPUIELIC OF BEPUd
TRANSPORT IUFlAIUC1E
R13HAIILITATIoU Ail» M &INTNCE  PRW1ECT
ECOIIC NALYSIS OF PFC' S INVESNTS
DETAIU   COST Au BEFIT FLOS
uia iallion   1985 CFAP)
C_wci. quay
saleIcm                  bIth tbe proi#t  :bt ittikt bll                    Sunetinty 5 Y dt
haint.  buvait. Ship uaithlliot.  lovnt. Ship mitti                 cut .12 lNuiut.  Capital Ibit. cuot    llt huit.
ians   tcust    cuit    coit    tcost    cuit    cust    :          :                 t
19m     5.33                 :95.9%   18.40 1 -204.0  t                  -23.43 *   5.33                        -209.04
1987:                         1   2.02                 :  -2.02 :           -2.02 :                                -2.02
9lm8     5.33                 :   2.02                 1   3.30              3.30:   5.33                           3.30
1989 I                            2.02                 I  -2.02 t           -2.02                                  -2.02
1990     5.33                 :   2.07                      3.30 :           3.30 t   5.33                          3.30
199l                          I   2..2 -2,02 I                              -2.02 :                                -2.02
1992:   5.33                  :   2.02                      3.301            3.301    5.33                          3.30
lm93 t                            2.02                     -2.2 I           -2.02 I                                -2.02
1994:   5.33                  :   2.02                 1   3.30 1            3.30 I   5.33                          3.30
1995                          :   2.02                 :  -2.02 :           -2.02 :                                -2.02
19961   5.33                  :   2.02                 :   3.301             3.30:   5.33                           3.30
197 I:   2.02                                          I  -2.02 I           -2.02 I                                -2.02
1998:   5.33                  I   2.02                 I   3.30:1            3.30 :   5.33                          3.30
19qI I                            2.02                 :  -2.02 *           -2.02 :                                -2.02
2000:         1952.15 1047.9I            195.96  104.80 I 2699.35         2669.9  t   5.33                        -295.43
2001 I        1002.17  523.98 1   2.02                  I 1524.12 I       1524.12 '                                -2.02
2002:   2.02                  S   2.02                 :   0.00:             0.00:   5.33                           3.30
2003     2.02                 1   2.02                  I   0.00 I           0.0 I                                  -2.02
204      2.02                 :   2.02                 I   Q000 I            0.00 I         19M2.15 41S3.50       6103.62
2005 I   2.02                 :   2.02                  1   0.00 1           0.00:          1002.11 1646.49       266.63
2006     2.02                 1   2.02                 :   0.00 :            0.00 I   2.02                          0.00
2007 à   2.02                 :   2.02                 :   0.00 I            0.00 :   2.02                          0.00
200 1   2.02                  I   2.02                  1   0.001            0.00 1   2.02                          0.00
20091   2.02                  1   2.02                  :   0.00 1           0.00 I   2.02                          0.00
2010     2.02                 :   2.02                  1   0.00:            0.00     2.02                           0.00
2011:   2.02                  :   2.02                  1   0.00             0.00     2.02                           0.00
20121   2.02                  1   2.02                 1   0.00              0.00 :   2.02                          0.00
2013 1   2.02                 t   2.02                  I   0.00             0.00 t   2.02                           0.00
2014     2.02                 I   2.02                  I   0.00 1           0.00 t   2.02                          0.00
2015     2.02 -1987.29        1   2.02                  1-191.29 1        -1987.29 1   2.02        -4117.        -4117.99
Ecorcéic rate of ftures      23.21
Ecmazi rate cuit .151        22.02
ERI recuostr. +5 ywrs        21.7
VApr 1
Apr1Jl 1987



-85 -
ANIEX 4-1
Table 2
PFOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
RERADILITATION AMi  MAITANCE PROJECT
KCONOMIC ANALYSIS OF PAC'S INVESTENTS
DITAILED =OST AND BENEFIT FLOWS
(lu aillions -1985 -CFA-P=
Smath busk of basin
sale ca e                lith the prouect  iefut bmnufit   1Semitivit                llith S yars delay
luint.  lavast. Ship witMaint.t  tnvest. Ship ait:                 :kot +151          I maint.  lovat. S net banal.
Tsrs .   oust    coit    cost    Stost    cuit   cwst    :                                     cost    cuit    cost
1986            42.60                    57.30  :         -14.70           -23.29 :                            -57.30
1997 I                            0.53                     -0.53            -0.53 :                             -0.53
19801                             0.53          1          -0.53         I  -0.53                               -0.53
1981                          :   0.53                 :  -0.53          1  -0.53  k                            -0.53
1990 I          29.29             0.53                 .  28.76          :  2Q.76                              -0.53
1991               :              0.53          :          -0.53     :      -0.53                     42.60     42.07
1992:                         I   0.53                 :  -0.53          5  -0.53               :               -0.53
1931 S                        . 0.53                   :  -0.51          :  -0.53  t                            -0.53
1994 S                        1   0.53                 :  -0.53         1  -0.53  1                             -0.53
1995:  85.20                  S   0.53                 :  B4.67          :  84.671           85.20   29.29    111.96
19961                         :   0.53                 :  -0.53          :  -0.53  I                            -0.53
1997             Il   0.53                             :  -0.53          :  -0.53  I                            -0.53
1m            :                  0.53          :          -0.53     :      -0.53              :                -0.53
Il:9              :               0.53                 1  -0.53      :      -0.53               :              -0.53
20001                             0.53          :          -0.53     :      -0.53 :                            -0.53
2001 I                        :   0.53                 :  -0.53             -0.53  I                            -0.53
2002:                             0.53          :          -0.53     :      -0.53               :               -0.53
2003                          :   0.53                 :  -0.53          :  -0.53  '                            -0.53
00             '                  0.53          :          -0.53     :      -0.53               :              -0.53
200 :  05.20                  :   0.53                     8 4.67        :  84.67  t         85.20             84.67
2006 t:                           0.53          :          -0.S3        I  -0.53 :                             -0.53
2007 '          :                 0.53          :          -0.53     :      -0.53  :                            -0.53
20081                             0.53                 1  -0.53         :  -0.53  1                            -0.53
20091                         1   0.53                 1  -0.53         :  -0.53  :                            -0.53
20101                         :   0.53                 :  -0.53         I  -0.53  i                            -0.53
2011 1                            0.53                 I  -0.53         :  -0.53  I                            -0.53
2012               :              0.53          :          -0.53   :        -0.53               :              -0.53
2013 1                            0.53          :          -0.53     :      -0.53 :                            -0.53
2014:                         I   0.53                 I  -0.53      :      -0.53 :                            -0.53
2015S :                           0.53          :          -0.53        1  -0.53 1                             -0.53
Ecomuuî rate of returu       33.02
Ccomic rate of roture cuit +151       24.4%
£couc rate of roturne 5 yrs daday    14.71
April 1987



t:                                                        -  -
<»~li F°?F a°FF>FFF- -  Y4laa -aaX                   '
~~~a                           --i
oo  ~       iiiisiisii -  eCeC   ce                     a  - Af~
$~~~~~~~ - .0                            1 8- 
_   _                                8  F   |        n        g   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,
S S*eSwSl: e-  S_S>_S_;        
#~~~~U     i  i t 
---r---r-r-rr-M ~rr-rrr.rrrrr W I
.. .t.    .                                                      .._______. _..I - I 
t-t DW                 - 9S -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



-87- 8NNX 4-1
Table 4
PEOPLE'8 R EPU LIC OF BENIN
TRANSPOPT INfEÂSTRUCTUR
RERABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
PAC
ECONONIC ANALYSIS: DREDGING
(in million 1985 CFAF)
Traffic projctintlarge ships     Trausport uvinp           Silte-  FRE8198  YMIR819  tOCUIS-  Wl   U  OF
Oil frua   Lim- Total             in CFAF &illio           -ti.   0VIIIS   ith    lithut CmImS ml
YS far sourc -ston. (in tonl           Oil      Clinker Total   factor  CFOF mio projact projmt  SEIFITS
,1986.00   90.00   81.00   170.00            69.30   3C.80  100.10    0.00    0.00  330.00            -330.00
1997.00   94.50   84.00  178.50              72.77   32.34  105.11    0.20   21.02                      21.02
i988.00   99.23   08.20  187.43             76.40   33.96   110.36    0.40   44.14                     44.14
1989.00   104.19   92.*61   196.80          80.22   35.65   115.80    0.B0   92.0                      92.70
1990.00  109.40   97.24  206.64             84.23   37.44  121.67    1.00  121.à7  330.00  330.00  12t.67
1991.00  114.07  102.10  216.97             88.45   39.31   127.76    1.00   127.76                   127.76
1992.00   120.61  107.2t  227.82            92.07   41.27  134.14    1.00   134.14                     134.14
1993.00  126.64  112.57  239.21             97.51   43.34  140.95    1.00  140.85                      140.85
19 4.00  132.97  118.20  251.17            102.39   45.51  147.89    1.00  1t47.89  330.00           -1U2.11
.M.00  139.62  124.11  263.73             107.51   47.78  155.29    1.00  155.29                     155.29
199l.00  146.60  130.31  276.91            112.08   50.17  163.05    1.00  163.05             330.00  493.05
1997.00  153.93  136.03  290.76            118.53   52.68  171.20    1.00   171.20                    171.20
1"8.00  161.63  143.6?  305.30             124.45   55.31   179.77    1.00  179.77  330.o            -150.23
1999.00  169.71   150.85  320.56           130.68   58.08  198.75    1.00  198.15                     188.75
2000.00  178.19   15.39  336.59            137.21   60.98  118.19    1.00   198.19                    198.19
2001.00  187.10  166.31  353.42            144.07   64.03  208.10    1.00  208.10                     200.10
2002.00  196.46  174.63  371.09            151.27   67.23  218.51    1.00  218.51  330.00  330.00  218.51
2003.00  206.20  183.36  389.64            150.84   70.59  229.43    1.00  229.43                      229.43
2004.00  216.60  192.53  409.13            166.78   74.12  24.90      1.00  240.90                    240.90
2005.00  227.43  202.16  429.58            175.12   77.83  252.95    1.00  252.95  -82.50 -165.00  170.45
Emonuutc rate of return:     0.26
WAPTR
April 1987



- 88 -
ANME 4-2
Page 1 of 5
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
REHABILITATION OF TUE PORTO NOVO-POBE ROAD
Description of Proposed Investment
1.        The proposed investuent comprises the strengtheuing of the 61 km
of paved road (Porto Novo - Sakete and Sakete - Pobé). The sections show
different levelas of roughness index, and traffic structure. The repair and
strengthening works have been designed accoruingly for each section
(Project File, Docviment No. 3-3). After the execution of the proposed
works, the entire road vill have a roughness index considered as excellent
(roughness of about 2000 mmtkm). The economic life of the envisaged
strengthening is 10 years. After 10 years, the investment residual value
of the 4ivestment is zero.
Cost of Proposed Investment
2.        The estîmated economie coat of the investment, net of taxes is
CFAF 2.4 billion for botn sections. This cost includes supervis4on,
estimated as 5Z of the cost of civil works. Cost estimates are provided at
1985 priceas.
Base Case
3.        In the base case, the road has presently an average roughness
index of about 4,000 ma/km, wivh some sections as good as 2,700 mm/km and
some as bad as 6,500 mm/km. Using an exponential function for the degrada-
tion of the road surface vith the traffic, soue sections reach a degrada-
tion leval above 6,000 mi/km after 2 years; the entire section 2 reaches
that level after 4 years, and the entire road after 7 years. It is assumed
that after 10 years, a full reconstruction vill be needed, at a cost of
about CFAF 4.5 billion for the entire road. In the "with" case, periodic
maintenance should be executed, at a cost of CFAF 2.2 billion. In order to
make the situation in year 10 comparable between the "with" and the "base"
cases, an additional Cout of CFAF 2.3 billion has been taken into consider-
ation in the "base" case, corresponding to the difference between a road in
need of periodic maintenance in year 10 (the "with" case) and a road in
need of full reconstruction (the "base" case).



89
ANEX 4-2
Page 2 of 5
Trafflc
4.        The trsffic tu yesr 0 va  taken as 900 v.p.d. on Section 2 and
1,100 v.p.d. ou Section 1. Anumal traffic grovth vas taken as 5% annually
(detailed estimates are availablin t.he Project ?ile, Document No. 3-3).
5.        The present aud future traffic on the Porto Novo-Pobé road i8
subjeet to thr.e uncertainties:
(a)   the official couats of 2800 v.p.d. iu 1984 (2650 light
vehicles and 150 heavy vehicles) do not correspond to the
actual traffic, estlated by the consultant at about 1000
v.p.d. between Porto Novo and Sakete (of which 200 heavy
vehicles) and about 900 v.p.d. betveen Sakete and PobE (of
vhich 450 heavy vebicles).  The dif ference is probably due
to MET's poor road count methodology, which takes into
consideration a substantial amount of suburban traffic. A
traffic of 1,000 asd 900 v.p.4. for each of the road
sections has beau taken for the base year in the economic
analysis, and a seD8itivity test has been carried out vith
a traffic in base year 30S lover.
<b)   In 1984, the traffle included heavy trucks for the Onigbolo
cement plant (a joint venture vith Nigeria). Following the
Nigerian socto-00ouemic problems and the higher than expec-
ted plant operating coet, Benin has decided to shut down
the cernt plant la 1985 for an unllmited period of time.
If the plant vere not to reopen, the heavy traffic vould be
lover than in 1984 by about 100 trucks a day. A sensiti-
vity analysis bs been carried out to take in consideration
the.possible no-reopening of the cement plant in the near
future.
(c)   The road to PobU serves prlucipally the Nigeria traffic.
With tSh recent closure of the border, the traffic on the
Porto-Novo-PobU road has been further reduced. The closure
of the border is probably a temporary phenomenon, and it
has been considered in the economic analysis that trade
vith Nigeria vill resume after two years (ln 1986).
Vehicle Operatina Cost
6.        Vehicle operating cost (v.o.c.) vas calculated using the Bank HDI
methodology vith Beninese data.  The average v.o.c. under the current
traffic mix is as follows:



- 90 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 3 of S
Economic V.O.C. (in CYAF!Èm) (excludina Taxes)
!M&bneso Index                        V.O.C.
(in mm/km)                       (in CFAF7km)
9G000                              163
6,500                              120
4,250                               91
2,750                               72
2,000                               63
Detailed calculations are included in Project File, Document No. 3-3.
Costs and Benefits (Table I)
7.        The identified economic costs are:
(a) capital investment cost, for CFhA 2.2 biUlion plus 5% for
civil vorks supervision.
8.        The identified benefits are:
(a)   savings on V.O.C., as per Table 1;
(b)   savings on the cost of routine maintenance, estimated as
CFAF .5 million/km/year in the base case, and CFAP .2
million/ku/year in the "with" case;
(c)   savings on road reconstruction coat at the end of the time
period, for CFAF 2.3 billion in the year 10.
Economic Justification (Table 1)
9.        The economic rate of return (ERR) on the Porto-Novo-Pobé Road is
68.6% with an initial traffic of 900 and 1,100 vehicles on the two road
sections, and a 5% per annum traffic growth.
10.       The net present value (NPV) with a 12% discount rate (the appro-
xlmate opportunity cost of capital in 3enin) Is CFAP 8.8 billion.
11.       The envisaged project is therefore economically justified.
Sensitivity Analysis
12.       In consideration of the major traffic uncertainties and possible
cost overrun, a set of sensitivity analysis vas carried out. The results
are as follows:
ERR X          NPV 12X
(a)  Best estimate                                     68.6            8,876
(b)  Capital cost + 15%                                60.9            8,'5
(c)  Error in base year traffic 20%                    56.9            6,C301



- 91 -
ANNEX 4-2
Fage 4 of 5
(d)  Onigbolo plant vill net reopen (-100 v.p.d.)    62.9             7.862
(e)  ligerian border does not reopen (traffie
-2,000 vehicles, growth 3.5% annually)         54.8            6,245
(f)  Combined (c). (d) and (e)                        36.7            3,406
(g)  Combined (b), (c), (d) and (e)                   32.2            3,090
The sensitivity analysis indicates that even in case (f), vith a traffic in
base year as low as 440 v.p.d. on Section 1 and 560 v.pd. on Section 2,
the ERR iB still a satisfactory 36.72.
Distribution of Benefits
13.       Coet and benefit flows, as shown in Table 1, are distributed
among:
(a)   Governamnt, receiving as a benefit savings on road mainte-
nance and bearing the capital investment cost; and
(b)   Road users; this category is further broken down betveen
light vehicle users, most of which are taken as final
consumers, and truckers, most of vhich are professional
transporters.
14.       Benefits on V.O.C. vere allocated as follovs:
a  - BL + BT             where B  - total benefit on V.O.C.
B  - benefit on light traffic
BT - benefit on trucks
B - T.a(CLO - CL,)
BT - T(1   a) (CT0 - CT1)
Where T     total traffil
a   - percentage of light traffic tn total traffic
CLO . v.o.c. per light vehicle ln base case
CT - v.o.c. per light vehicle in "vith" case
CTe - v.o.c. per truck in base case
CT, - v.o.c. per truck iu "vith" case
Considering that V.O.C. per truck is about twice as high as V.O.C. per
light vehicle.
L   Ta (CLO - CL1)
BT - 2T(1 - a) (CLO - C1)



- 92 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 5 of 5
Therefore B  - T(C.    - CL1) (a + 2(1-a)>
Dividing both sides by B, 1 -      a       +   2(lZaÇj
a +2(1-a)   a   2W1a)
Where      a     is the share of light traffic, and   2(1-a)   is the
a + 2(1-a)                                      a + 2(1-a)
share of heavy traffic.
* On the road section Porto Novo-Sakété, a -.8, therefore the share of
light vehicles is 8/12 and the share of heavy traffic 4/12.
* On the road section Sakêté-Pobé, a - .5, therefore the share of light
trafflc is 5115 and the share of heavy traffic 10/15.
The correspouding results in billion of CFAF are sumarized below (Table 2)
Total Net Beneflt
at a Discount Rate
of 12X CFA? 8.8
Governuent                                      Road Usera
CFAF -1.3 billion                               CFAF 10.2 billion
WAPTR
April 1987



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
ROAD PORTO NOVO-POBE - ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(in 1985 prices)
UITIIt TU PRECT                                   *u    MI Nf                  eT                                   C M 11    t CUIT       1  
vtiKu. *lotal VIOCVOCIVb. 'Total vOC*lotal vOtêlbint. cmit OUnveb. flstal MSItIU. *total V, OCOtW  WCWUaist. u  *ctiom  lSectita 2*lott*l imvEIllI
Ysti     t tI       e2   *ut2  *         -  4intive(3)ftect 1   uct I   wct 2  fti 2  *                  hiwrul4l    *   451  *   (5>  ftcst    '
303 *   1002*    3585*   1420 *   2422 *             33     30 »93    1002# *   35 *      420 *   2422 *         33      1205     1157 *   2363   -23
3396'   11554    4049*    1684    239n               33.   2194*       743  t 20          v72'   1615t           13'                   i t      *   12
3702 *    1322 *   44a f   1950    3272 *           33 *   2261       00 0     2171*      940   1755 *           13*         *         e        t   15?
4067     1 1525*    441 >   2219 4    3745 *         33 *   2344*    079    2251 t   1032          1911'         13 *        *         *4        * 0
4474'   1762'   4985 *    23n *    4*61 *            33 *   2436 '    5  *   2340 *    126 O   200*              13     f        *              I *    6
480 f   2010 '   5135 '   2595 *   4605             33      2537 *   104 a   2436 *   1231 a   2200              13'          *                  *   230
5183 t   2250 *   5172 *   2745       4    *         33 *    2647 *   114*   2542    1349    2490'               13*                   *             2517
538 6    2455*    512 *   22  5* 337J               33 f   2769 *    1262 *   2659*    1482 *   2144*            13 *        *                   #   2613
5386    2578 *   5172 *   3026 *   5S04              33*   202*    1309 *   270?*    1631*   3 0 *               13     *         *              *   2*
5306*   2707 *    5172 *    3177 *   58 4            33*    304 *   1533    292 *   1799*           331 *        13*              *        *         23
5306'   2E43    5172 *   3336 *   6179 t             33 *    3211*    1695 *   304*    19t9  36  *               13*  -1173 *   -1127   -2300 i        U 
*        *         ,        ,         ,            *        *         *         I        *         I           I         *        *         I       
*        *                    I         *         4        *         *           f         *        e         i
ECOIIOIIIC  ATE 0f RElTu   68.62
(1) 33.81 il
12) 32.47 ka
13t lutusai, uinteunce caculated on the basis of £FJ  .i allimn pur ka
104 Nel uriinteuun  calculited o the bais of CFAF .2 aullics per kt pr yar
(5> Indcluiling SrntiSi  onf civil twkBs Sl
161 Rniu   valua is ciodred xèrD after 10 yaus.Additional rEconstructio  coit 4fter 1t yerr la the
uîtbout ua has be disrrded.
WAPTR
April 1987



- 94 -
MINEZ 4-3
Page 1 of 3
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF EUIN
TRANSPORT INPRASTRUCTURE
RBHABILTTATION AND NàENANCE PROJECT
ECoONMIC ANALYSIS
RERABILITATION OF THE PARAZOU-HALAIWILLE ROAD
Envisaaed Investment
1.       The rehabilitation vould apply to the paved road between Parakou
and Malanville. The road length is 317 km. vith a platform vidth of 7.5 a
and a roadway vidth of 6 m.
Deslgn Llfe and Coet
2.       The proposed design vould reduce the road roughneas index to
2,000 mm/km. The envisaged vorks vould permit to petpone road strengthen-
ing by nine years. After nine yoars, the residual value of vorka vill be
sero, and periodie maintenance vorks vill have to be executed. The esti-
mated economic cost pf works, net of taxes, but including supervision of
civil vorks for 5% ih:
- CFA? 1.300 million for the Parakou-Berouboué section (141.5 km) and
- CFA? 1,615 mdllion for the Berouboué-Nalanvlile section (175.5 km).
Presentation of Base !ase
3.        lu the base case, it is assumed that despite intensive routine
maintenance, after three years, the entire length of both sections vill
require a complete reconstruction, at a cost of CPAW 3.5 billion for the
firet section, and CFA? 4.4 billion for the second section. The recons-
tructed road vould bave au economic life of 2d) years (vith normal routine
maintenance and periodic maintenance every' 9 years, para. 5).
Road Traffie
4.       The road from Parakou to  slelmille carres all traffie to land-
locked Niger and to Northera Benin. Mont of the traffic is northbound. It
is carried by train from Cotonou to Parakou (about 80  of freigpt traffic
to the north). Then it in transhipped from the train to trueks at the
Parakou terminal, to be trucked nortbward. nore than 502 of the vehicles
are heavy trucks and traillers. Complete traffie forecast by type of traf-
fie and vehicles and by road section are available In Project File 3-4.
Future average traffic grouth ts expected to be about 5.52 to 6.5S annual-
ly. Present road traffic in about 770 vpd on the Parakou-Bar>uboué sec-
tion, and 330 vpd on the Bérouboué-NalanvlUle section. It îe expected to
reach respectively 1,298 vpd and 566 vpd by the year 1995. Traffic



ANNEX 4-3
Page 2 of 3
forecast are based on estimated present traffic level and structure but it
may not reflect the reality.  Therefore, sensitivity tests have been
carried out vith lower traffic level for the base year and a slover grovth
path (para. 7 below)i
Co0t and Benefits
5.        The expected co8t and benefit flovs are:
(a>   Coste
(i) capital investment cost in the "withtt case ïa esti-
mated as CFAF 2.9 million (para. 2);
(ii)  routine maintenance cost in the "vlith" case, up to
1989 for CFAF 28 million annually on the fîrst sec-
tion, and CFAh  35 million annually  n the second
section (calculated on the basie of CFA? .2 ail-
lion/km /year.) (After 1989, the routine main-
tenance co0t iS the same as the "base case".)
(b)   Benefits
<i) avoidance of reconstruction cost for about CFAF 8
billion in year 1989;
(iI)  avoidance of base case intensive routine mainte-
nance for CFAF 71 million and CFAF 88 million
annually on the two sections (calculated on the
basis of CFAF .5 million per km per year for inten-
sive routine maintenance for the 1987-1989 period
of until reconstruction, routine maintenance cost
ta the same as in the base case);
(iii)  starting from the year 1987 (after completion of
vorks) and until 1989, when the road is rebuilt in
the "vithout" case, there is a saving on vehicle
operating costs (VOC) as indicated in Table 1.
After 1989, savings on VOC are negative, as the
road condition is better in the base case (on a
fully reconstructed road)than in the "vith" case.
VOCa have been calculated using the Bank HDM model,
adapted for Benin and the road traffic level and
structure (Project File, Document No. 3-4);
(iv)  no benefit has been considered for the reduction in
travel time, and no induced traffic has been consi-
dered.
Economic Justification
6.        Under the assumptions above (detailed in Project file, Doe.ument
No. 3-4), the proposed investment has an economic rate of return tERR) of



- 96 -
AMNE 4-3
page 3 orf 3
106Z.  The net present value (NPV) of the project la the range of estimated
opportunity cost of capital lu Bouln (12%) la significantly positive (CFA?
2.3 billion).
Sensitivity Analysis
7.        The main riaks are:
(a)   capital investment higher than expected.  With a 15% higher
in capital cost, the ERR i8 still 90%;
(b)   traffic increase lover than expected.  With a traffie
growth rate of 4.2% (30% lover), the ERR ia still 104Z; and
(c)   etror in the estimated 1985 traffie.  Vith a 1985 traffie
20Z lover than estimates, the ERR is 92%.
With riska (a) and (b) combined, the ERR is 89%, and with (a), (b) and (c)
combined, it is still 77%.
Distribution of Benefits
8.        The distribution of net benefit flows between the aovernment,
final consumera and entrepreneurs has been carried out using the sme
methodology as in Aunex 4-2. The structure of traffc les estimated as 50Z
light traffle and 50% trucks. The results are as follovs.
Total net benefît
discounted at 12%
_CPAP 2.31 billion
Govern0ient                                  oad Usersa
CFA! 0.93 billion                           CFA! 1.38 billion
WAPTR
April 1987



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE RERABILITATION AD MAINTENANCE PROECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS - PARAKOU-MALANVILLE ROAD
(l CFAF dilion)
:        Il--:        ----------  ITHOU PMOET                                               lin-: - -- S T  PWU r- --       :C
YMRS  JTRAFFIC  tIVOC/YV1.  YoeIOYW  INUST. IRoutine  uTOT.L      M lovAL I. aîl IomI. IYOC/YW  IINSî. hIkIIO   11011.   I 10111   11D1FQ::
:Hjn lIPD1::lin CF*FH:      ICOSTIU)  i8int.(21COOT/SECTI CMT    liun FCfiAl         tOSTeiî   Imint.(II:WST/SECT   COT  :: Il
O    :    7161::    108:   4204 1          :      71:   4355,          ::    11    4294:   1500             0: O  55041          :: l7
:     355  122:1   61t I         1     88 1   2704   tOU Il    122:   26181   1615 1             OS   4233        "11 S11    27  Sl
:1   814 ::    113:   4751:               :     71    48: 1           il     10    33641           :      2:1  33921           ::          :l
S    355 ::    126,1  2866                   e s8I   254 l 77761          91 1   20ro:          1     351   214:   sm497 1       -229lot
2   :    U3::    lis o       5259:1               711   5301           I *     84     3744 1        :      211     121           :          S
*    3761:  130:   3135:         :     MI    32221   11552s         94:      2266 t             35S1   23021      0741 t   -24711 S
3         915:      123 1   58111    35  1t      281    m71            Il      Ol    4S511          :      28:1  4184            S: 
:    n991l     134:    3425:   458 1        35:   7047S  17224 ::         90     205 t         S      351    25401      7251.1  -lm1 09
4   :    910 t       77 1   3061           S     281 :     01           i      92 1   46017         :      280   4635            ::         il
à    423 :       0 1   23041          :      351   2491    6»31          101: tO    273 1             35:   27Mi       7407:  s :  1103 :1
5  1  10281 l         D t   42461          :      2 1   4275 tl                96 i   50  1         1      281    51241          :          : 
4401:      911    2131                 3 51J   2641    6923 :       105S1   3015:         t      35.1     50 1   B175 :1    1251 1.
6        l t1 I08:   041   426 1                  2 281   47551         5l 100 1   56273             :     201565                 J:
:    475:1      941    28611                 351   2996      7651 1:    1091   33181 t                351    33S31   900.`    1357 I1
7   :   1155 ::      OI   5240             :     28 1   52771          Il    1051    6262 1          I     281    6291           l           l
:    504 11:    98      3162          :      351   3197     8474 1J      113     3              :     35      $68 1    99721 1    14" t0
I        1224 11:    92 1   58161                 281   58451          il    110 1   69541                 28 1   6                          l
I    534       101 'O  3454           :      351    3401   93341         117:   40021           :     35:1  4037    11019 1        16Il85S
9   :   1298         96'   643 1  -24761          201   39é            Il    115 J    7707I1 n             28 s         ms1      il         il
1    566 61    105:   387 0S  -30711         351     771m     47561      122     44231          :     351    4401 IZ   :l:    7437 IJ
* Stioa 1. Parkou- brobo   141.5 ka
Secti. 2: brwbou- fblaville 175.5 ka
ill lntcludiso suprviu:o
121 Routine sintmmmce CF*f       0.5 billio pn                                        ECOItitIC RAT( Ot REIUI OFmm            10.
(31 Routine aaintume CFIF        0.2 ud1lien pr k                                                                                                         le
istc. rate    0.05      0.l      0.12     0.IS      0.2      0.25       0.3      0.35      0.4      8.45      O.5      0.51        0.6 il
ot P..         792     2042      2311     2552      266      2572      2377      2139     lm        16N      1410      £20        1017 il
ApPTR
Apr4 1 1987



- 98 -
ANMEX 4-4
Page 1 ef 3
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC 0F BENIN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
ECJNOMlC ANALYSIS
REHABILITXTION 0F THE COM-DOOBO ROAD
1.        The Comé-Lokossa-Dogbo Road i8 61.5 km long.  Built in the late
qixties to accomodate transport needs of the province of Mono in the south-
vest region, this road has an average daily trafflc of 300 to 700 vehicles
per day of which some 20% are trucks. The traffie lcad together vitb poor
maintenance snd the lack of drainage facilities has led to an advanced
state of deterloration including extensive cracking, spalling of the layer
edges and subsiding of shoulders. The road is still used but at a low
speed of 35-40km/h and high vehicla operatiug coste (VOC8).
The Project Description and Economie Cost
2.        The project la designed to rebuild the collapsed portions of this
paved road which accounts for 31% of its total length, to strengthen the
ovez.lay of the remaining 69%, to stabilize the shoulders and to set up the
missing drainage system.  The investment coet, in 1985 prices is estimated
a8 CFAF 2.7 billion vithout taxes vith a 45/55 split over the two years of
implementation, starting 1986.  The economic life of the rehabilitated road
is 20 years. As regards maintenance, a resurfacing after 10 years vas
found to be the optimal solution at a pre-tax co0t of CFAF 12 million per
km. The routine maintenance vithout the project vould add a total of
CPAF 40 million per year to the amount required vith the project.
The Traffic
3.        The economic influence of the road extends to 70% of the total
population of the Mono province, or some 400,000 inhabitants. The urban
development in the province is one of the least advanced of Benin and
industrialization is limited to the Hagoumé plant for treatment of cotton
seeds.  The traffic stems from two sources; (a) the agrieultural produc-
tions, or about 237,000 tons in 1984, with exportable surpluses, mainly
corn and manioc for a total of 17,500 and 32,000 tons respectivaly in 1984;
and (b) the manufactured products imported from other regions (mainly
Cotonou) among which cement, hydrocarbons and fertilizers are dominant vith
respective yearly traffic around 16,000, 9,000 and 1,000 tons.
4.        The traffic projection is based on regular counts carried out
twice a year, a low periodicîty which does not give but a rough estimate of
what the actual traffic is and leaves great imprecision as to its season-
ality.  This problem is addressed through the sensitivity analysis.  Future
traffic growth will be moderate, at a yearly rate of 2.5% which also re-
flects the population growth prospects.  This conservative assumption



_ 99 _
ANNEX 4-4
Page 2 of 3
does not account for generated traffie that may follow the successful im-
plementation of rural development projects in the province of Mono, nor
does it account for a positive response of traffic demand to lower trans-
port cose, as the relevant elasticities have not been assessed. Table 1
indicates for each link of the road the evolution of traffie.
rab)' I - Treffic Projectîc
lear   Sctiow i  Section 2  Section 3  Section 4  Sction 5  Sectioe 6  Sectio I
3      22.7      15.3        2       4.5        9         s
1987      856      694       622       177       328       32m      328
1987      856      694       b22       m7        328       328      328
1988      877      711       638       796       336       336      336
198?      899      729       653       816       345       345      345
19940     922      714       670       83?       353       353      353
1991      945      766       687       858       362       362       34'
1992      968      7?5       704       879       371       371      371
1993     9M3        8051     721       901       380        8        3
1994     1018       825      739       924       390       390      390
1995     1043      o4u       750       947       400       400      400
1996     1069      867       777       970       410       410      410
1997     1096      s8e       791       995       420       420      420
198      1123      911       816       1019      430       430      430
1999     1151      933       637       1045      441       441      441
2000     1180       957      857       1071      452       452       452
200t     1210      981       879       lo9f      463       463      463
2002     1240      1005      901       1125      475       475      475
Costs and Benefit Flows
5.        Moast benefits are derived from reduced VOCts with the project
which vere based on an application to Benin of the HDM Model. Seven sec-
tions vere defined from Come to Dogbo, esch with homogeneous characteris-
tics and for each, VOCs vithout and with the project respectively vere
calculated as weighted averages of VOCs specific to representative vehicles
operated on that road and in the proportion of their use.
6.        Without the project, VOC's reach quickly their peak of CFAF 173
which corresponds to a roughness index of 9,000 mm/km, in Table 3 they drop
first to their minimum of CFAF 80 for a roughness index of 2000 mm/km after
completion of the rehabilitation works and increase regularly thereafter
until 1998 where they again fall back to their minimum level as a result of
periodie maintenance.



- 100 -
AMNEX 4-4
Page 3 -f 3
Ecouomic Justificatfon
7.         The result of the ecooeiic aalysie are ahown la Table 2.
Table 2 - Ecomaic Calculations:  Base Case
(1985 Prlices)
Project toets             projuct B"ift
CAPITAL    PERIIIC   AVID0    MlIUS    TOTAL
VEAR      C05TS    lRAiRTENAIIE IIAINT£1ŒEN N I.O.C.' SEWITS
198.6         1200.0                                  -1200.0
1981           1490.0                                  -I4O.O
1908                                40.0      677.5     7t?.5
1989                                40.0      010.2     050.2
1990                                40.0      892.0     92.0
199                                 40.0    1000.4    1040.4
lm                                  40.0    106S.7    1108.7
1993                                40.0    1047.3    1087.3
1994        '                       40.0    1003.2    1043.2
1995                                40.0      95.5      965.5
1"6                                 40.0      843.2     M.2
1997                                40.0      740.8     7.8
1m                       738.0      40.0    1471.2     773.2
199                                 40.0    1475.5    1515.5
200                                 40.0    1462.6    1502.4
2001                                40.0    ,14U.0    14980
2002          -470.8    -42.0       40.0    1396.9    230.5
8.         The rehabilitation of the Come-Lokossa-Dogbo road has a clear
economic justification, as evidenced by the internal rate of return of 30%.
Sensitivity Analysis
9.         The project's risks ver. assessed at two levels: (a) uncertain-
ties concerning the traffic counts; (b) the investaent cost overri-ws.
Table 5 below summarizes the results of the sensitivity analysis.
Table 5 - Come-Lokossa-Dogbo Road - Sensitivity Analyais of the ERn
Traffic: -252             Capital Cost: +15%
Traffic: -25%                   29.2Z                           25.7%
Capital Cost: +15%              25.7%                           26.4%
IJAPTR
April 1987



- 101 -
ANNEX 4-5
Page 1 of 3
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
REGRAVELLING AND RERABILITATION OF 1,002 KM OF GRAVEL ROADS
Envisaged Works
1.        The envisaged regravelling and rehabilitation program corresponds
to a four-year tranche of the Benin national periodie maintenance/rehabili-
tation program for the classified gravel roads. The entire national
network has be1en surveyed (Document No. 3-2 in Project File), and the
selection of road sections to be included in the four-year program has been
established based on economic criteria. The corresponding list is given in
Table 1.
2.        The envisaged works comprise resurfacing and regravelling of the
road sections included In the project. The cost of technical assistance
for supervision of works to be executed by force account has been added to
the rehabilitation/regravelling cost. It is considered that each reha-
bilitation/regravelling brigade vill be supervised by a foreign expert on
the basis of 1 man-month for each CFAF 10 million of economic cost of civil
vorks. The economic life of envisaged works depends on the traffic. It
ranges from 8 yeais for roads with a traffic below 50 vpd, to 4 years for
road sections with a traffic above 150 vpd.
Costs
3.        The rehabilitation/regravelling cost has been estimated for each
section separately (Document No. 3-2 in the Project File). The total cost
per km including supervision varies with the content of vorks from CFA? 1.0
million per km for regravelling to CFAF 6.5 million for road rehabilita-
tion, with an average of CFAF 2.9 millionfkm. The estimated cost is
detailed in Table 1. The cost of supervision vas allocated to each section
on the basis of CFAF 2t.5 million per man-month of expert. This increases
the cost of regravelling/rehabilitation by 25%. In consideration of the
low level of estliated cost for road rehabilitation/regravelling a sensi-
tivity analysis has been carried out with civil vorks cost increased by
25%. All costs vere estimated as economic costs net of taxes, at 1985
prices.
Base Case
4.        In the base case, it vas assumed that no rehabilitation/periodic
maintenance works would be executed, but that routine maintenance would be,
at a cost of CFAF 112,500/km/annum. The road roughness, is alloved to
increase from its present level to about 6,000 mm/km, over a time period



- 102 -
ANNEZ 4-5
Page 2 of 3
depending on the traffic on the road section under consideration. The
relationship between road traffic and the increase in road roughness is
given in the Project File, Document No. 3-2; it vas calculated in accor-
dance vith the Bank HDI model methodology.
Traffic
5.        Each road section's traffic estimate is based on traffic counts
conducted by MET. Road sections are assigned into four categortes:
- Traffic belov 25 v.p.d.
- Traffic of 25 to 75 v.p.d.
- Traffic of 75 to 150 v.p.d.
- Traffic of above 150 v.p.d.
Traffic growth vas taken as 6% for all sections.
6.        Official traffic counts being rather optimistic, a sensitivity
analysis with traffic 30% below estimate vas carried out. In addition, it
la recommended that the execution of the years 2 to 4 program be subject to
an economic reevaluation following a nev counting campaign to be organized
under the proposed project.
Costa and Benefits (Table 1,
7.        The identified costs for each road section are:
(a) economic co0t of civil works;
(b) civil works supervision cost;
(c)   routine maintenance cost in the "vith" case, estimated as
CFAF 75,000/km/year on average; and
(d) routine road regrading in the "vith" case, estimated as
CFAF 250,000/km/year on average
The identified benefits are:
(a) reduced V.O.C. due to improved road surface and more
efficient maintenance, keeping road roughness in index
below 2,500 mm/km. Detailed calculation of V.O.C. are
given in Project File Document No. 3-2;
(b)   avoidance of routine maintenance in the "base case" for
CFAF 112,500/km/year on average.
No benefit could be quantified for time saving, and generated traffic was
considered negligible.1



- 103 -
AMN 4-5
Page 3 of 3
Rate of Rotura sud Net Present Value
8.        The    teceIrealLteLon prog:r  bas beau désigaed on tbe
basis that all road sections to be tncluded should bave au Economic Rate of
Ratura aboye 12Z. Subsidiarly, the NPV par umit of capital cost vas
calculeted as a ranking criterion for allocating existing funda batveén
competiug rosd sections ta case coat overruns vould croate a shortage of
funds. The UR for the entira progra  is 42.42. The full cost bénefit
mnalysis for each section la available in Project File, Document No. 3-2 Y]
Sensitivity Analysis
9.        Séouitivity tests vere carried out ln the folloving cases:
(a)   capital investuént cost 252 highier than expected: avera8e
UR 34.22;
(b)   initial traffle 30S baloy ME  couats: average URR: 29.42;
(c)   combination of (a) and (b): average ERR: 22.6X.
The corresponding ERRs and NPVs et 12 are given lu Table 1> *ud detailed
calculations are avallable in Project Fll , Document No. 3-2.
Distribution of BenfLts
10.      The distribution of bnenfits bas beau calculated as folloe: The
identlfied beéeficiaries are the Govermnmnt.  d rosd users.  The Govern-
unt banlfite fron reduction in maintenance cost, aud béars the investuent
coste. Road users béneflt frou -the réduction in VOC. Among road usera. it
vas assumed that all users of light passenger véhicles and pick-up. vere
final consumers, benefitting directly frou VOC roduction for tuis type of
vehicls. It vas assuméd that truckers vould béneflt from réduction in
truck VOC. lhether thbse gaine vould be retained by transport entrepre-
neurs and/or other producers as additional profLt, or passed onto final
consumera as price réductions, could not be flrdly establilhéd in the case
of Benin. In order to be consistent vith the estimated opportuuity cost of
capital in Bénin, the béuefit/costs for *ach category of beneficiaries vas
diucounted at a 122 rate. Thé final result la as follovs:
,Total N et
ieneDflts at 12 z
/      ~~Discount rat! 
" "     ~CFA? 5.1 blllioe 
overament                                              R  oad Usera 
|CFAJ -4.1 billllon|                                    CEA? 9.2 'blllioa
1/ The exclusion of sections for vhich a lov ElR vas found vini be
discuss et aegotiatious.



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC  OF BEaIN
TRANSPORT  INFRASTRUCTUR8E RDIAILITATIOU  AU2D tAINT11ANCE PROJECT
REGRAVELLINC AND REABILITAtION OF GRVL   GOADS - KCONOKIC AIIALYSIS
(in   llion  1985 C7AJ)
tLn;tlh tmttmha.   :Coit    IToel^  ICoat pur t           I         :llPVIt2t
RoU mctiîe                             km      :cest    Itech. asmurast      ,ks.      t  IMR   tPV 12Z  t/cout
t        :         5         :         :        :         1         :    
Atpia- Aijulum           I                 24.2    3359 : 8399.75 41998.75 i   1735S:  264.1IZ:    05  I  71.44
Djuo u- bteron                        :      71:  976 1   246441  123220t   1735t   86.811  529   1   21.50:
Peho-Ku    .                               72.7 t  2731  ,  6472 .342361.2 I   4709 1   1S.6        SU         0.80 I
Ibteruel-Putec                        t 463.5 t  88163 I  22041 1110203.7 I   1735 t   91.811  530140 t  24.05 t
DPiugoQ- Natitigu                     t   79.3 t SWi950 I 127231 1636187.5        B125 t   31.35t  449644 '   3.53                                        8
savulou-Otoutaosm                     t   Ot.51  43750        m       56875       6250     44..n   6964451    6.371
Nlali- li                             I   35.8 I815 I        22479 nJ  2393.7 1   3139 t   16.211  17303 1   0,n77
Adjiokum- Khpto                       :      65: 24488U1t  61220 106101.2 i   4709     25.911  207182 t   3.38 
i_aqo- P0uc                           :   71.6     99410 I  243 1124262.5 I   1736 I   61.8t 413219    16.63 t
Tchuuirsa- btarm                      i   $3.9 à 133         3844 41169218.7 t    3139:   48.911  34677 14  10.24 I
baud&4bco                             i      87 I 327763    81941  49703.7 1   4709 I   14.41:  43708 i   0.53 1
Iiouhu- Natitigau                     t   41.? 1  SM1I   9650 : 4824.5            1157     41.011  90026 t   9.33 I
Fhe   ur-usoMM   Sa                          30 1   416521   10413 1   520        1736      30.0tl  51850I   4.98 
Savlos- Tchetti                       :   37.8 1   3498:   8750    43738 1   1157           41.011   8160 t:  9.33 1
Lqzodeh  Blazou                            17.7 t  16         4100 t  28  t   1157          40.911   38174:   9.31 t
Koedi-S pan                           t   94.6 1 35636 I  809    445495           4 *709 I   31.351  4240      4.76t
sailwr- Kudi                          1   6q.8    9910       2422t121137.5        1735t   67.9n2  43.         17.93
Total                                 t 1002.11 292948 t30744.2 :S3M92.:    3641                 15008901    6.851
Eceouit rite of retwns          42.43
April 1987



- 105 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 1 of 4
PrsOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
REEABILITATION AND MAINTESANCE PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF PAC
Past and Present Situation (Tables 1, 2, and 3)
1.       PAC's financi81 result on operatlons vas acceptable in the recent
past although lts overall financial management shoved veaknesses.
2.       PAC incurred high deficits in 1982 and 1983 in particular as a
result of a laxist policy for hiring personnel but ended FY1984 vith a
taxable income of CFAF 272 million. Although by a narrover margin, PAC
remained profitable in 1985 and similar results are expected in 1986 based
on preliminary results. This satisfactory performance is due to:
(a)  a better control of vorking expenses from 1983 on: steff
Co0t vas containad by a freeze on recruitments (normal
attrition brcught the permanent staff to 663 in 1986, down
from 713 in 1983) and general expenses vere reduced by
close to CFAF 200 million. Thlis contributed to keep
vorking expenses arouud CFAF 1,450 million in FY1986,
unchauged from their 1984 level. The increased activity
registered makes this performance all the more commendable.
(b)  an increase lu port revenue from CFAF 2,465 million in 1983
to CFAF 3,012 million lu 1986, due to a traffic increase
over the period fron 800 to 1,167 thousand tons.
3.       However, still better results could be obtained through improving
the tariff structure, vith shiponners bearing a larger share of port costs.
A heavier taxation of services to ships vould favor a more efficient
utilization of port facilities through discouraging unnecessary berth
occupancy, and provide the port authority and Benin vith additional revenue
vithout impact on domestic price level, as an increase in charges on ships,
vithin reasonable limite, is not likely to trigger a port surcharge. Long
storage should also be discouraged by above average increases of the
demurrage rates.
4.        Overall financial management vas not satisfactory:
(a) capital investuent in infrastructure ln FY1983 vas CFAF 3.1
billioc, although the traffic vas declining and no capacity
constraint observed. This capital investment vas partly
financad from vorking capital, partly from Government
grants; more recently, a third tug vas purchased at a cost
over 1 billion. PAC has been considering a major



- 106 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 2 of 4
development of the fishing port and should be discouraged
to proceed with it in view of the uncertainties concerning
its financial viability, at least over the project
lmplementation period.
(b)   PAC defaulted on its financial commitments (intereat plus
principal) to the Government for about CFAF 5.5 billion as
of December 31, 1986, on Ioans correspouding to on-lending
by the Government of funds provided by IDA and other donors
under the Port project. The PAC should resumre regular and
timely service of this debt. This is feasible, provided a
sound financial policy is adopted (see para. 7(e) belov);
(c)   PAC has allowed its receivables to increase steadfastly,
mainly with OBEMAP, SONATRAC and SOTRACOB, all public
i enternrises. OBEMAP which had discontinued payments for
rentals over the last two years resumed recently them but
its arrears vere roughly CFAF 2.3 billion as of December
31, 1986. The two latter companles vere recently
liquidated, leaving PAC with a bad debt of about CFAF 1
billion; and
(d) vhile PAC was defaulting on its long-term debt and letting
payables pile up, it accumulated about CFAF 1.2 billion in
cash by end of fiscal 1985.
5.        PAC's poor performance with financial management ls attrîbutable
to its sub-standard financial accouuting system, and a shortage of qual-
ified staff in the financial directorate. Since 1984, PAC's management has
undertaken to remedy identified issues through:
(a)   redesignîng its financial accounting system vith the assis-
tance of a consultant. Its implementation and compu-
terization (micro-computers are financed under the Port of
Cotonou Project) vas completed by end of 1986 but there are
still a few programming probleme that muet be resolved
prior to discontinuing operations of the manual accounting
system.
(b)   strengthening the staff through recruiting a hlgh level
professional as a back-up to the Director of Finance.
Future Situation (Tables 1, 2 and 3)
6.        The objectives of PAC's financial policy in the future set forth
in the Project Agreement are:
(a)   to maintain a ratio of working expenses to operatlng reve-
nues not higher than .50;
(b)   to keep the debt to equity ratio at no more than 35/65; and



- 107 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 3 of 4
(c)   to improve cash management, and reduce the average bill
collection period to 3 monthe in 1989;
(d)   to strengthen accounting, in particular for better costing
of services.
7.        In order to achieve the targeted financial and cash viability,
and for PAC to meet its past financial commitments to the Government, and
to other public enterprises, the key elements of PAC's financial policy
should be:
(a)   to maintain annual salary increases in line vith domestic
inflation, alloving for a maximum annual seniority/merit
increase of 3%, and for an annual reduction in total staff
employment (permanent and casual vorkers) by 5% over
1988-1999;
(b)   to increase ship dues and demurrage for goods in storage by
10% and the other PAC's tariff excluding the dues levied on
goods by 5% as a condition of Credit effectiveness and
proceed with further adjustment vithin two yeare as needed
to meet the financial targets over 1987-1992 (under the
assumption that increases on ship dues and service time
charges would be absorbed by the maritime conference
tariff, the impact of PAC tariff increase on the cost of
the Benin route to users vould be negligible);
(c)   to compensate about CFAP 1 billion of bad debt relating to
liquidated public enterprises by an equivalent reduction of
PAC short term liabilities to Government;
(d)   to improve working capital management by reducing in paral-
lel accounts receivable from OBEMAP, and other customers,
and the balance of accounts payable to the Government and
public companies. The envisaged reductions are as follow:
Reduction in Payables and Receivables
(in million CFAF)
1987     1988     1989      1990    1991    1992
On Outstanding Receivables  600        500      500      500      500     500
On Outstanding Payables      200      200       200      200      200     200
These reductions vould be achieved through rescheduling
debts with OBENAP (receivables) and the Government
(payables) prior to December 31, 1987. This together with
the rehabilitation of OBENAP along the lines defined in the
Action Plan agreed at negotiations are important conditions
for a healthy financial statue at PAC.



- 108 -
ANNEX 5-l
Page 4 of 4
(e)   to consolidate the remaining overdue financial coumitment
to Government to a total of CFAF 5 billion as a long term
loan (1 year of grace, 25 repayment annuities and a 6X
interest rate), being understood that Government would re-
quest anticipated repayments should the financial position
of PAC evolve more favourably than fore8een and cash ba-
lances accumulate beyond vorking capital needs.
Detailed assumptions are given in Table 4.
WAPTR
April 1987



-  109 -                                                        1
Tra 't iufrMtructur  ru4lît,h. i rn>.t
acm  statts Ft 102-t
la&  1i m CF*F)
IS       1  lm5 11^ lm              m              lm        1tq    1S        ltM    1"2
zz==          lktiul             s                 FrDpét -
ew   - shi                       200.0   43.0    20.00   247.56  321.05  3D.4   M5.33   361.94   372.3   41&.S6   42.44
har&"(laq  stag>)                3.80  521.0   354.00   1".57   219.7     29.24   217.51   21L1é  22S.1   252.36   27L23
hm s a                          1t33.   1152.10  12M.*  1274.Z7  10017S  ;.53.11  1441.35  I   .:1  1110.06  2M.U  239.54
butals                            53.00   24 té  1lSO   12.27  111.73  1061.17  117.11  1191.42  12".21  17.43  13*.13
1is :lua.  r                     174.t0  162.60   b4.00   51.31    42.71    53.46   3.27    44,24   67.45    73.12   77.16
lnues fira  urkshq                 1.N    11.10    30.10    31.14   26.40   32.66   37.56    43.11   09.7    57.12   45.41
Faorce acct - s                   24.1 2e.1          0."     O."
tal rewsu fra  aeatîns          2711.10  25.60  3 .00  261.2  3012.43  3M.08  3*7.12  36.37  327.76  4113.11  4«1.3t
Staff cdts                       551.0  776.0   72.00   M.10 A        1.82   854. 0    M.46  9*.14   17.43  14M.64  1154.74
natnalas  ui   fuls              121.0   290.10   20.4   347.82  413.47  433.28  02.11   534.32    13.35   641.U   715.15
Cola nespdltuns                  367.10  ffl.80   110.84   171.44   206.     m.41  240.21   25.50   21.26   302.61        b.%0
Total bskan    mpdaiturn        1044.10  140.6 I2M.1  132t.64  1441.29 1514.14  1611.85  1731.76  1351.24  II.10  21J.5S
CMS CMETE2 FM    MUEM           115.10  10M5.1   105.10  13561é  153U.14  1714.24  11.07  l57.61  1974.52  2132.11  2303.0
hpr,ciatiou
Total  a1  iorecxatim            #3.00  12.2.10  1097.00  tU.41  91.32   m2.u5  163.06  11.13  1123.%  1060.47  I1.31
Total 0ratit« ftpiten          1129.1  2712.0  2300.0  22.25  2361.41  2444.49 2511.11  273.U  2620    41.67 325.11
IET IPNTIMI IEi                  12.00  -207.M  730.é  337.57  U43.52   734.     M2A.tl   9.40   ff2.56  1071.4  1235.51
lIturut chtrs                     M.06   73. 0    0J.0    511.00  517.5  53(t.01   S.11    5.34   5.25   05.45  326.44
MET  ESlLT  W t UETIS            -14.10  -45.00   110.0  -113.43    56.17  244.51   -7.11   16.14    12.31   212.00  357.U7
0b6  pati.q ru                    75.00  2M. W   340.00   I.21   356.17  373.11   M.u1  412.31   432.93  354.57   477.30
ou  qautirl charps               <3.08    1.40  20.00   104.%   110.15  115.45  141.43   127.51   1I3     14.S51   147.40
MET  ILT IE  TU1                -514.00  -5.10   212.10   14.10   302.20  506.91  244.IS   3 4  37t.31   526.é  M I.
Taou a bfit                                        145.10    35.70   151.If  253.45   132.4J  119.47   1Lé1  2*5.40  354.20
ET 7EILI dTm  TU!                                  127.10    5.18   151.10  2U.45   132.U   101.47   lS.U0  243.4   34.20
Ratte
0rkiuq ratio                       0.33    0.3       0.3t    0.50    4.40    0.47    0.40       0.47     #.40     0.40    0.49
lwratiq rétis                      0.73    1.90    0.74      0.10    0.71      0.74     .7 l     .74    0.75      0.74    *.71
mmt  uirc ratio                    1.2      1.50     1.25    0.94    O."       1.14    1.22     1.1     1.17     1.33    1.47



- 110 -
Rplic of lnit                                     AMNEX 5-1
Transport iifratructarm reailitation prDojec             Table 2
PAC8tLAE SUT,F.y. 1 -1992
biel.»i CFAF,
1982    1983    1914    IM98     1986    1987    180    198        IM      1991    1992
Fied asuets
--m3*8  kAc  8tuta  8maaau=  Proje«td                                             comua"aau
Infratructures                25898.00 27346.00 2739.00 27551.00 27651.00 27851.00 290SI.0 S3051.00 31551.00 3051.00 34551.00
8uildinqs                      1391.00  1384.00  134.00 1304.00 1434.00 1484.00 1584.00 154.00  1584.00 1584.0  158.00
Equiamnt                       1*639.00 3259.00 38.00 49.00 4419.00 4476.50 4542.63 4618.61 4706.12 4806.69 4922.34
lotal gross fised amants      282.00 31909.00 32121.00 I3.00 33.00  811.50 35177.63 36753.6N 37841.12 39441.69 41051.34
kt. dépreciation on infra.     1504.00 25U.00 3t94.00 3755.21 4308.23 4865.25 546.2  607.29 66331  1349.33 8040.35
Ac. depreciation on buildings    642.00  437.00  602.00  678.16  749.86  024.06  903.26  92.46 1061.66 1140.86 I20.06
icc. deprication en equipst    699.00  1042.00 1344.00  1615.24  1969.84 28.27 25TI.12 2879.03 3192.77 3513.21 3841.37
Total accumlted depreciation   2045.00 4047.00 5140.00 6108.61  7027.93 795t.58 820.65 991.18 10942.74 12003.40 13101.78
Investent                       316.00  270.00  265.00  306.00  306.00  306.00  306.00  306.00  306.00  306.00  306.00
Other filad assts                 0.00    0.00    0.00
Net fil d uswts               26399.00 28212.00 27246.00 27501.39 26782.07 26159.92 26562.98 27140.89 27204.38 m44.28 28261.56
barrent asgts
Star"                            34.00   34.00   33.00   56.75   70.32   75.45   82.02   08.58   95.67  101.41  107.49
Receivables                    3164.00 3157.00 4845.00 5342.06 50U.55 6300.00 4450.15 4025.17 355.17 3141.92 2742.17
Prepaid expanf
Cash availahl.                  554.00  764.00  1109.00 1252.66  435.19  312.10 1037.28 1131.04  1257.34 1330.89 1394.49
Total carrant *U.ts            3752.00 4655.00 5987.00 6651.4  650.06 668.04  569.4  524.10 4918.19 4574.23 4244.15
TOTAL ASSETS                  30151.00 3267.00 332.0 34152.01 33132.13 321.%  32132.43 32385.69 32122.57 32318.51 32505.72
Permnent fuads
Capital                       16571.00 16571.00 16571.00 16571.00 16571.00 16571.00 16571.00 16571.00 16571.00 165U1.00 16571.00
Rtainid anaings                 700.00 2979.00 2931.00 3141.14 3292.24 1545.69 3677.76 367.24 4052.91 4316.31  4610.60
Lonq tors dm4t.               11041.00 8960.00 74S5.00 7402.00 6168.90 5231.28 10531.18 10724.12 10577.42 10559.83 1056I.12
Saspenel.t. debt)
Total perunment fuids         28392.00 20510.00 27487.00 27114.14 26032.14 25347.97 30779.95 31162.35 31201.34 31447.14 3t806.72
Carrent îiahilitius
Accoante payable                65.00 4306.00 576.00 7038.73 7100.00 7500.00 1352.49 1223.34  921.24  01.38  699.0
Atcrutls                       1103.00   51.00   40.00
Overdrafts                        0.00    0.00    0.00
Total current liabilities      1759.00 4357.00 5746.00 7038.73 7100.00 7500.00 1352.49 1223.34  921.24  071.38  649.00
TOTAL LIISLIIIES             3»151.00 32860.00 33233.00 34152.87 33132.14 3247.97 32132.43 32305.69 32122.57 32318.51 32505.72
Ratios
Carrent ratio                     2.13    1.07    1.04    0.94    0.89    0.89    4.12    4.29    5.34    5.25    6.07
Uquidity ratio                    2.11    1.06    1.04    0.94    0.88    0.08    4.06    4.21    5.23    5.13    5.92
DJbtlequity ratio                 0.39    0.31    0.29    0.21    0.24    0.21    0.34    0.34    0.34    0.34    0.33
Firancial rate of retaun          0.06   -0.01    0.03    0.01    0.02    0.03    0.03    0.04    0.04    0.04    0.04



- 111 
Ropubllc of Ouio                                       ANNEX  5-1
Trapoit 1frastructura rhaihitation proj«ct             Table 3
PtCSIuRCES AUR APPLIOATIS F FM
FYI1-1992
<million CFAF>
<992    1983    14    I8         1986    1987    11        198     1990    1991 l I92
LONG TERN SOURCES
8383. -8 33888c 8               330#z Akttil                        es3-   Projected g
Cash geneated fra oper tians   171Y.OO  1055.00  185.00  1332.18  1563.14  1714.24  1789.07  1957.61  1976.52 2132.11 2303.88
BSrrouings                             -1922.00    0.00  522.00      .00  261.38 6161.21  1260.83  924.33   960.34   969.39
Capital increases                          0.00    0.00
6overnemnt contributions                2792.00 -324.00  204.%
Nn operating revenues            75.00  293.00  300.0   3392   35.17         3.98  392.68  412.31   432.93  454.57   4t7.30
Non cperating apenditr s        573.00    1.00  208.00  104.90  110.15   115.65  121.43  127.51   133.0   140.58  147.60
Adjustunts                                               -100.97
Total long tera sources                 2217.00  1653.00 2317.45  1809.17 2233.94 8U1.52 3503.25 31".90   06.45 3602.97
LORS TERI APPLICATIONS
Investaunt in infrastructure            1422.00   53.00  152.00  100.00  200.00  1200.00 1500.00 1000.00 1500.00  1500.00
Investuent in buildings                   -7.00    0.00    0.00   50.00   50.00   100.00
Investment in equipunt                  1620.00   79.00  1031.00   50.00   57.50   66.12   76.04   87.45  100.57   115.65
Adjustœents                               26.00    0.00    0.00
Total capital investmet                 3061.00  132.00  1183.00  200.00  307.50 1366.13 1576.04  1087.45  1600.57 1615.65
Interest                        848,00  738.00  608.00  501.00  507.65  536.01  833.11  s65.34  880.25  558.65  826.64
Delt repayunt                    100;00  159.00  975.00  1105.00  1233.10  1199.00  861.30  1067.0  1071.03  977.94  964.09
Total debt service              948.00  897.00  1503.00  1686.00 120.75 1735.0  1694.41  1933.24  1951.27  1836.50  1790.73
Incae tax ta 6lvernant                                     35.70  151.10  253.45  132.07  189.47   185.68  263.40  354.28
Investuents                              -46.00   -5.00   41.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total long ters applicat cas            3912.00  1710.00 2945.70 2171.85 2295.96  3192.61 3698.7s 3224.40 3700.55 3760.67
EXCESS L.T. SOURCES/APPL CATIONS       -1695.00  -57.00 -628.25  -362.68  -62.02 5029.92 -195.51  -24.50 -294.10 -157.70
SHORT TERN SOURCES
_=888 _333 33"8 :
Increase accruals                      -1052.00  -11.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Increase payables                       3650.00  1400.00  1292.73   61.27  400.00 -6147.51 -129.14 -302.11   -49.8  -172.38
Total short tors snces                  2598.00  138.00 1292.73   61.27   400.00 -6147.51 -129.14  -302.11  -49.96 -172.38
SHORT TERI APPLICATIONS
s8 ## S=331S
Increase cf stores                         0.00   -1.00   23.75   13.57    5.63    6.09    6.56    7.09    5.74    6.08
Increau receivables                        0.00  989.00  497.06  502.49  455.45 -19.85 -424.99 -60.00 -423.25 -399.75
Incruase prepaid expus                   693.00
Liquidity incrauu                        210.00  345.00  143.66  -817.47 -123.09   725.18   93.71  126.30   73.55   63.59
Total short ter# applicu ions            903.00  1332.00  664.4  -301.41  337.98 -l19.60 -324.65  -326.61 -343.6  -330.07
EXCESS S.T. SOURCES/APPL CATONlS        1695.00   57.00  628.25  362.68   62.02 -5028.92  195.51   24.50  294.10  157.70
Re. cash at the end of p riod    554.00  764.00 1109.00  1252.66  435.19  312.10 1037.2k  1131.04  1257.34  1330.89  1394.49



- 112 -
AMNE= 5-1
Table 4
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
REHABILITATION PROGRAN
PAC: BASIC ASSUMPTIONS POR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
1. Port Operations
1986           1988            1990
Tonnage (tu thousand tons)
Liquid Bulk                         260             280            310
Dry Bulk                            120             160            190
General Cargo (traditional)         440             440            435
Containers                          200             250            310
Total                           1,020           1,130          1,245
Containerization Rate (Z)             31%             36%            37%
Average Berth Occupancy Rate          302            28.52          28.5
Port Productivity Indicators
Cargo Handled per Ship/h
at Berth(t) (Non-Bulk Cargo)        650             750            800
Average Storage Time (days)          25              22             20
2. Prices and Tariffs (2)
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991  1992
Inflation of Total Prices               7      7       7      7      5     5
Salary Increases (nominal)              7      7       7      7      5     5
Nerit Increases  (   "   )              3      3       3      3      3     3
Tariff Incresses:(   ,  )
-  Ship Dues                         10      0      5       0      5     5
- Demurrage                          10      0      5       O      5     5
-  Duea on Goods                      0      0      5       0      5     5
-  Rentals                            5      °      5       °      5     5
- Miscellaneous                       5      0      5       0      5     5
3. Depreciation Period on Fixed Assets
Infrastructure               50 years
Buildings                    20 years
Equipsent                    15 years
4.  Financina Terma                   Rate        Grace        Duration
IDB                               2.5%          5             15
IDA re-lending                    8.02          3             15
Rescheduled debt to CAA           6.0%           1            25
WAPTR
April 1987



- 113 -
A1NU 5-2
Page i of 4
PEOPLE'S REPUBELIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT IFRASTRUCTURE
RERAIILITATION AMD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
FINANCIAL AMRYSIS OF OBEMAP
Past and Present Situation
1.       OBEMAP's accounts vere kept satisfactorl£y until 1982.  S4uce
then accouuting standards have serioualy deteriorated, to the extent that
accounte for FY82 to 83 are to be taken as estimates.  Hovever, a nev vell
qualified financial director bas been recently appointed and bas already
taken measuree to lmprove accounting standards.
2.        OBEDAP's financial situation ln 1985 vas crîtical because of its
accumulated debte. Revenues vere lnsufficlent te cover vorking expendi-
tures over 1982-84, resulting in a very veak financial structure. From a
combination of cost cutting mesures and recovery of its activity, OBEMAP
is expected to return to profitability ln 1987.
3.        OBEKAP lncome statements indicate that cash generation has
steadlly vorsened: the ehortfall of some CFAF 212 million ln 1981 doubled
each year to reach CFAF 884 million in 1984. The traffic decline vas a
factor: the tonnage handled vas, la 1983, at 772 of lts 1980 level. What
-ostly plagued OHEKAP's finance vas:
(a)   overstaffing (1,370 permanent staff and 3,500 stevedores,
of vhich 1,190 vere under permanent contract until
May 1985). The tev wmanagement bas taken courageous mea-
sures to reduce staffab, ad abollsh the costly system of
having stevedores under permanent contracta. Efforts in
thie direction must be rursued (para. 7); and
(b)   stable tariffs since 1981 despite the inflationary environ-
ment. Although savings can be achieved through cost re-
ductiou (para. 7 below), adjustuent in average tariff rate
cannot be avoided.
4.        OBEMAP's financial structure is extremely veak, vith insufficient
permanent funds and a negatîve vorking capital The CFA? 50 million
capital vas in the firet place too limited. The accumulation of deficit
quickly led to a negative equity vhich by end of 1984 amounted to about
CFAF 3.4 billion.
5.        OBEMAP's vorking capital is negative (CFAF -3,024 million, or
about tvo years of revenues). It vas ftmanced from short term commercial
payables, which reacbed by end of 1984 a tovering CFAP 7.0 billion (four
and a half years of revenue). A large amount of payables are vith PAC, and
bave contributed to pass on OBEKAP's financial criais to PAC.



- 114 -
AMNEX 5-2
Page 2 of 4
Comercial receivables are al8s  abnormally high, due to the f mancial dif-
fieulties of OBEMAP's public sector customers: COBENAM, SONATRAC and
SOTRACOB mostly. This issue is being addressed under the Benin Public
Enterprise Sector Rehabilitation Project.
Future Situation
6.        Because of its limited number of berthe and area, Cotonou is
constrained to cargo handling operations by a single operator. Liquidating
OBEffP in view of its accumulated debt vould entail that: (a) another mono-
polist vould take over with no guarantee of improvement; and (b) OBENAP's
creditors vould never be paid back. lu fact, the recovery procese started
in 1985 atteste the potential for OBENAP's financial viability. However,
the current path could not be sustained for very long unlesa a drastic re-
structuring of the balance sheet takes place. Part of the debt must be
vritten off as the traffic vould not bear the tariff increases that its
full repayment vould need. The objectives to be puroued in the future are:
(a) raising OBEMAP's cost effectivenesas in order to restore its competi-
tivenese; (b) restoring the firm financial viability; (c) strengthening its
permanent funding; and (d) suppressing the negative effect of OBEMAP's fi-
nancial difficulties on the Beninese economy.
Coat effectivenees
7.        The average cost per ton of throughput is currently CFAF 2,200
per ton excluding depraciation and financial charges.
OBEW.P's Present and Future Cost Structure
per Ton of Throughput
(in C?AP at 1985 prices)
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989   1990
Staff Cost               1,415   1,371   1,210   1,122   1,074  1,033
Other Expenditures         768     810     788      756     735    714
Total           2183   21f' i   1"998   1.88   1&i802  ,    8
Tonnage Randled         850      807     847     890      935    981
('000 tons)
It is proposed to reduce this cost at 1985 prices down to CFAP 1,747 per
ton in 1990, through a front-end lay-off of 150 staff followed by a
reduction of the remalning number by 5% per annum until 1990, the control
of other working expenses, and a better utilization of existing equipment,
with major equipment acquisition postponed until at least 1989. lu
addition to cost saving measures indicated above, a substantial tariff
increase ought to generate in 1986 revenues 20% higher at constant traffic
than ln 1985. Nev rates vere indeed introduced in Auguet 1986 fulfilling
this condition. In the folloving years, further adjustments vill be
provided as needed for compliance vith financial objectives (see para. 12).



- 115 -
ANNEX 5-2
Page 3 of 4
The financial projection assumes a 5% traffic reduction in 1986 and a 5%
yearly growth thereafter. Tariffs would have to be increased in 1987
through 1992 by a moderate yearly 5% to meet the objectives, except in 1989
when they would be raised by 10%. Other detailed assumptions for financial
projection are in Table 4.
Financial Restructuring
8.        OBEMAP's financial structure has to be strengtbened as the pre-
sent structure, combined with a negative cash generation makes OBEMAP not
credit-worthy. The financial 'restructuring will aim at OBEMAP having posi-
tive net long term funds, and improving the debt equity ratio.
9.        The reorganization plan.  The estimated liquidity gap as of
December 31, 1985 is CFAF 3,703.70 million. The proposed restructuring
plan provides for the following:
(a)   Goverument to put into effect its 1984 decision to increase
its capital to CFAF 500 million from its present CFAF 50
million; this contribution will be effected by a write-off
of the debt to Governnent in the same amount;
(b)   CFAF 1.1 billion of debt to be written off as corresponding
to an unjustified taxation of benefits since 1981 and to
overdue payroll taxes which are traced to overstaffing
constraints imposed on OBEMAP;
(c)   The remaining short term liabilities to Government to be
converted as an additional contribution to equity for a
total amount of CFAF 1.5 billion. This contribution will
be repurchased from 1990 in 10 annual installments. It
leaves an overall liquidity gap of CFAF 153.70 million;
(d)   CFAF 500 million of short term liabilities to the National
Security System, DBSS to be consolidated as a long term
loan bearing interests at 9% and vith maturities over 10
years.
(e)   A compensation shall be made between the amounts owed by
the liquidated SONATRAC and SOTRACOB, equivalent to some
CFAF 1.3 billion as of December 1985 and those owed by
OBEMAP to Government.
10.       The above measures will be accompanied by a revaluation of
OBEMAP's assets reflected in the 1987 accounts.
I1.       Management of working capital.  OBEMAP has financed its past
losses by discontinuing payments to its suppliers, in particular to PAC.
The remaining arrears after financial restructuring are much above the
repayment capacity of OBEMAP. As no local bank can be expected to conso-
lidate OBEMAP's commercial debt, it should negotiate with its creditors a



- 116 -
ANlEX 5-2
Page 4 of 4
time schedule for clearing overdue debts. Because of the restraint on
tariff increases imposed by the necessity to maintain the competitiveness
of the Benin route, and the resulting limited future cash generation, pay-
ments vill have to be spread over 6 years. Simultaneously, OBEMAP's re-
ceivables from miscellaneous public firms should be significantly reduced.
A national committee has been set up to that effect. The payment schedule
should be as follows:
Strengthenin£ of the Working Capital
(in million CFAP)
1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Reduction in Outstanding
Receivables frou Customers   100      100     200     200     200
Payments of outstanding
creditors: PAC               400      300     300     300     300
Other Creditors    70      70       70      70      70
12.       The projection is desîgned to meet the folloving objectives:
(a)   the vorking ratio to be maintained at no more than .75
until 1989 and 0.70 from 1990 onvard;
(b)   the debt equity ratio not to exceed 60/40;
(c)   the yearly investment plan and related financing plan to be
subject to prior agreement by IDA; and
(d)  the remaining number of staff, after 150 are laid off
by end of 1987, to be reduced by 5% each year starting 1987
through 1990.
WAPTR
April 1987
SAR-A5.2:BENSAR(WAPT2/April 1986)



- 117 -
ANMEM 5-2
Table I
PEOPLF'S REP1WLIC OF BENIN
TRASPORT INFRATRUCURE
REAILITAION AND IOINTNANCE PROJECT
OIDIA  - II1cHE STATEHENS.  T98-1992
(millio    CPP
1481182     1402     1413     1914    1985      1986     1987  1908        1489     1940     1991     1992
hernicts                                  <suJ moultelrojuti 
lieuerou etmtuarius               1524.00   51..00  l6.0   74.*  1074.60  1225.04  I3.61  1404.05  15.60  16.4 2040.44  24.77
Igeu   s car go huUliuog           83.0    342.00   551.00   62.00   841.05   M.00   MD.89  971.19  1121.72  1236.10  I .46  1503.21
Rvoue or storap                     12t.00    57.00    69.00    86.00   116.10   36.30   3.27   321.11   344.10   374.37   418.25   461.12
Restas                              75.00    25.00    35.00    42.0    56.70    64.64    71.26   7&.57   40.75   100.05  :1Q.30   121.61
flsoellatb     rf                     .0*     1.00    4.0       5.00     6.15     7.70     8.40     9.35    10.80    11.91    13.13    14.4
ranva  froo urwkeop                  0.00     0.0o 0    .00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    10.00    11.00    12.00
Total roevu. #fr09 ogtie          25t0.00   94.00  1519.00  1552.00  2095.20  2402.75  2635.52  27.87  3131.97  3634.16  400.64  4417.19
Ebpumituroe
Staff cots                         1801.00  7M9.00  1317.00  IIE5.00  1202.71  1183.51  1242.28  130.92  1361.62  1501.35  160.22  1071.69
Mteais un  fuel                    291.00   207.00   253.00   249.00   252.4   267.90  2M4.69   324.16   356.57        .23   411.45   474.60
ROMÉa epciture                     4.00   i50.oO   397.00  1002.00   400.00   432.00   466.56   503.9   544.20   587.73   634.75   605.53
Total .orting  spsouature         r237.00  1156.00  1U67.00  2436.00  1855.51  1983.45  2003.53  2131.96  22tS.39  2480.32  2746.43  3031.01
C1511 0111\10 f180 oIMTi9U           33.00  -212.00  -448.00  -84.00   237.69   519.30   631.9  7143.91  02.95  1145.14  1260.21  1385.38
total  _oul deprtecatîu            225.00   129.00   232.00   182.00   193.28   322.67   355.60   314.95   200.48   210.44  321.55   443j7
Total owatin es dtitvres          2712.00  125.00 214.00  2618.00  208.9  2206.12  2359.13  2516.91  2470.37  2641.75    617.97  3475.58
1ET maTins fEWI                    -192.00  -341.00  -680.00 -106.00    46.41   16.63   276.39   353.9   661.60  935.41   938.6   941.61
Inttret chargn                       0.00     0.00    38.00    51.00    51.36    89.58    03.8    86.35    44.98  t11.64   165-26  218.03
ET REMIU  IU UEUOTIOIS            -192.00  -341.00  -718.00 -1117.00    -4.      O 107.05   192.51   272.t61   5.72   815,72   773.40   722.79
un oratinug rte u                   48.00    19.00    5.00    22.00    25.00    26.25    21.56    28.94    30.39    31.91    33.50   ;5.19
Ibn uoetin  chtu                    83.00    46.00    04.00   282.00    20.00    21.00    22.05    23.15    24.31    25.53    26.80    28.14
IVET IE81.T                       -903.00  -368.00  -n97.00 -1377.00     0.05   112.30   198.02   279.40   572.0   822.10   7S0.10   729.a2
Tu  or n t rouat                                                         0.03    56.15    Q9.01   139.20  296.40   411.05   390.05    64.91
MlRfIT AMER Tiu                                                           0.03    56.15    '9.01   139.20  286.40   41: 05   390.05   364.91
Ratio
fbfrin  rati                         0.        1 .22    1.29     1.57    0.89     0.78     0.7,6    0.74     0.72     0.48     0.69     0.64
wurting ratio                         1.07     1.36     1.45     1.69    0.98     0.92     0.40     0.8      0.79      0.74    0.77      0.n9
Dot strvice rtio                     o...   -1.77    -Z.13    -8.4       2.36     2.14     3.44     3.98     4.31      4.84     4.22     4.26
WAPR
April 1987



-ANNEX 5-2
- 118 -                                            »Table 2
P19PLR'S U?UBLIC OP 3B84I
TRSPORT S TUCTUUg
EAspILITATIon< AUD 1AINTENVI5C  PROJ=cT
OIEKAP - IAUNCE SIEITST FY1982-1992
(million  CIA!)
:981182     12      1983    198      19       10       1       19        98      190     1991     1
Fue asuats                             sa ths)
- sn.nuaasusn lktul mu.,n                                    Proj«tiui
Infratructuru                      10.00    10.00    13.00    13.00    13.00   26.00   26.00   26.00   26.00   26.00   26.00   26.00
Iuxl4up                           102.00  102.00   102.00   502.00   102.00  204.00  234.00   294.0   3n.00  3q4.00  394.00   394.00
Eguaomt                          1?12.00  103.00  l4e50oo I80   1.00  3 o36.00 406., 4356Q0OO 456.00   4.00 6456.00  75.00
total grass ;ixt4 uusets         1894.00  1946.00  1960.00  1963.00  1"3.00   eo.00 4316.00 4616.00 497.00   076.00  6876.00  7976.0
1r. deprption Ca iBfra.             3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.52        7.30    8.9    10.62   12.29   13.95   15.62    17.28
ecc. d8rscatIoa on buldiqs         61.00   62.00   67.00   72.00   77.10   131.52   141.18  15.94   171.50   189.16  20.82   224.48
lt. depriattie en c quiPast       993.00  1120.00  134.00  ;29.00  1712.66  30.10   37.38 3761.00  3949.6à 4140.77 4443.00  4867.44
Total ccaum!atme depr.ciati:o    1057.00  1183.00  1418L00  1600.00  1793.20  3191.92 3547.52    2.47  4133.45  4343.89 4665.43  5109.20
1wftwtut                           31.00   78.00  494.00  496.00   496.00  46.00  496.00   46.00  496.00   496.00   496.00  4%.00
Other fixd auats                    0.00    0.00      0.00    4.00
met fîaid    ti.                  8U8.00  939.00  1036.00   959.00   605.72  1370.08  1264.48  1239.53  1338.55  2020.11  2706.57  3362.90
C4wrpt ituati
Stars                             2M2.00  247.00   228.00   208.00   300.00  324.00   349.92  377.91   408.15   440.80   467.25  495.28
Rec«tvahle                       2201.00  2301.00 2073.00  2222.00 2000.00  1712.08  1417.69  1126.20   990.59  916.52  1010.03  1113.0e
Prepaxd euupsas                   647.00  382.00  323.00  3.00   3.00
Cash aVuslu                        45.00  561.00  446.00  344.A0   696.30   144.27  100.45  324.04  255.07   81.21   136.06  275.79
Total turrnt asuts               3575.00  3491.00  3070.00  307.00 406.30 2180.35  1930.06 1021.15  163.80  1438.53  1613.34  1884.16
TOTAL Am9910                     4443.00  4330.00 4106.00  3956.00 4782.03 3550.43 3202.54 306.69 29.35 3566.64 4319.90  524.96
Prant a g nds
Cpital                             sc.00 oo   .00   50.00    50.00   50.00   500.00  500.00  50.00  50.00  500.00   500.00  500.00
Rstrvis                          -751.00 -1121.00 -20l.00  -3.00 '3.00.97   174.21  273.22   412.42   698.82   99.7  1199.92  1414.83
Long tort debt                     -2.00   234.00   414.00   39.00   321.00  791.00  '61.00  912.47  1017.27   530.40 2096.73  2760.07
'otal perannt 'un,               *349.00  -83.00 -1547.00 -290.00 -301797  1465.21  1534.22  1024.99  2216.08  299.27  3796.65  4674.9(
-. - ___ - ~~~~~~................--.._A_Av_^__.AA~___.. . ._. ........__...A___ __
Current laibliltiai
kteunts payable                  4492.00  484.00  3551.00  6834.00  7800.00  2085.22  16.32  1242.80   776.27   476.37   523.25  572.0e
Aceruals
Cvndraftrts                       o00.00  323.00   102.00   102.00
Total currant lab:litt:e        4792.00. 5167.00 5653:00  6936.00  7800.00  20 25.U  1668.32 1242.80  776.27   476.37  523.25   m7.0-
TOTAL LIAiOLITIES                4443.00 4330.00  4106.00  956.00  4782.03 350.43  3202.54 3067.69 292.35  3466.64  4319M.  5246.9t
3333 *tenes**"         _        a
Ratios
Current ratio                       0.75    0.68    0.54      0.45    0.53      1.05     1.16    1.47    2.13      3.02    3.08    3.2'
hbtleqrity rato                    -1.01   -0.28   -0.27    -e. 12   -0.11    0.54    0.50    0.50    0.46    0.51         0.55    0.5<
Ficnncial rite of rtura            -0.22   -0.40   -0.73    -1.13      0.06    0.19    0.21      0.29    0.51      0.56    0.40    0.3
WAPTR
April 1987



-l}9 -                                             ANUZI 5-2
Table 3
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT INFPASTRUCTURE
REMABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OBEMAP - SOURCES AND APPi,CATIONS OF FNS. FY1982-1992
(million CFAF)
1,92    198      1994    1985      198      1987             6198 19   10       1991    1992
3333 gui 333OEu  fictoal                                              *     3 3         3       Pro>ectN fz       ugK       ta  *smu
Cash quinatod f ro  oparitîafts            -212.00  -448.00  -84.00   239.69   519.30      l. "   743U91  982.58  1145.84  1260.21  1395.38
ISoroung;                                     2.00   2S5.00    0.00    12.00  570.00    10.00  252.00   210.00  t30.00   700.00   770.00
Capital încreu                                0.00    0.00     0.00            450.00
Govmrnrint cntrxbutions                       0.00    0.00    -1.00           2600.00                             -150.00  -150.00  -150.00
mmon opevatin  reveflues                     19.00    5.00    22.00    25.00    26.25    27.56    28.94    30.39    31.91    33.50    35.19
e'io operating expenditure                   46.00    04.00   292.00    20.00    21.00    22.05    23.15    24.31    25.53    26.80    29.14
Realuatiou                                           -92.00                    907.03
Total long tiro srcus                      -237.00  -334.00 -1145.00   256.69  5051.58   70J.50  1001.69  1078.66  1632.22  1916.91  2012.42
LO116 TEPlt APPU CATt015
1niestwnt In infliStructurt                   0.0     3.0     0.00
Investut in buildings                         0.00    0.00     0.00                      30.00   60.00  100.00
Investunt in equipmut                        52.00    11.00    3.00    20.00   100.00  220.00   300.00   200.00   900.00  1000.00  1100.00
total capital inVastéent                     52.00    14.00     3.00    20.00   100.00   250.00   360.00   300.00   900.00  1000.00  1100.00
Imterest                                      0.00   38.00    51.00    51.36   89.58    83.89    96.35   94.80   119.69   165.26   218.83
Dett repayumut                              120.00   105.00   55.00    50.00   100.00   100.00   100.53   105.20   116.97   133.67   106.67
total dubt servite                          120.00   143.00   106.00   101.36  19.58   183.89   186.88   200.00   236.55   298.93   325.49
Tas paid to 6overnmet                                                   0.03   56.15    99.01   139.20   206.40   411.05   390.05   364.91
Invntunt participation                       47.00   416.00    2.00     0.00              0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00
Revaluatios                                                                    907.03
Total long tenr applitations                219.00   573.00   111.00   121.39  1252.76   532.89   696.09   796.41  1547.60  1I8ffl. 1710.40
EXCESS L.T. SDURCES/ fPLCAT1DN9            -456.00  -907.00 -1256.00   135.30  3798.82   174.61   315.62   292.19    84.62   127.93   222.01
SHOPt tERN SOURCES
Sncreas  accruals                            0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     ).00     0.00     0.00
Iricrea5t payable                           352.00   707.00  1 3.00   966.00 -5714.78  -416.9K  -425.53  -466.53  -299.90    46.ê0    40.82
ctal short ter& source, s5:.00   '07.00  1283.00   96ê.00 -5714.78  -41t.90  -425.e3  -466.53  -299.90    46.88    49.82
iHOPT TERN aPPLICATIONS
Irtrease of stores                          -35.00   -!9.00   -20.Q0    92.00    24.00    25.92    27.99    30.23    32.65    26.45    28.03
Intreasn receivable,                        100.00  -228.00   149.00   579.00 -1087.92  -224.39  -3b1.49  -135.61   -74.07    93.52   103.06
Increabe prepaîd sîpenses                  -,t3.Q0   -59.00    0.00   -23.00  -300.00     0.00    0.00                        0.00     0.00
Lîquidity increase                           94.00   106.00  -102.00   454.30  -552.04   -43.62   223.59   -68.97  -173.86    54.84   139.74
Total short tere applications              -104.00 -200. 00    2.00  1101.30 -t915.95  -242.29  -O09.91  -174.45  -215.28   174.81   270.83
EICESS S.T. SOURCESAPPLICATIONS             456.00   907.AX' 125o.00  -1:5.30 -3798.82  -174.bl  -315.62  -292.18   -84.62  -121.93  -222.01
9et cash at tne end Gf perîod                48.J0    44.àû  242.00   o9h.30   ;44.21   100.45   324.04   255.07    81.21   136.06   275.79



- 120 -                             ANNEX 5-2
Table 4
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OBENAP - BASIC ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIOb4S
1. Traffic
Traffic forecasts in tons are the same as for PAC (Annex 5-1, Table 4). It
was assumed that warehousing tariff increases will reduce average storage
time of merchandise in the port area.
Summary of Traffic Forecasts
1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
Tonnage Handled            720   747   813   857   898   937
Average Warehousing
Time (in days)            27    25    24    22    20    20
Rental Index (1984-100)   105   110   115   120   125  r130
2. Prices and Salary Rates                                              -
Price will increase at a 7% yearly rate until 1990 and 5% thereafter. An
annual 5% reduction of stevedores number has bean included, whereas the
system of productivity incentives vill increase salary levels 3% on top of
the yearly inflation rates.
3. Tariff Increases (%)
1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Stevedoring          20       5        5      10        5
Cargo Handling       --       5        5       10       5
Storage             200       5        5      10        5
Rentals              20       5        5       10       5
Miscellaneous        20        5       5       10       5
4. Annual Depreciation
Buildings       25 years, linear or acquisition cost
Infrastructure 29 years, linear  "
Equipment        9 years, linear  "
5.  Financing Terns
Rate        Grace        Duration
(M)       (years)        (years)
IDAts Fund On-Lending Terms               9            3             18
Other (Loans for Equipment)               9            3             18
Outstanding Commercial Loans             15            1             10
(as of 12/31/84)
Detailed financing plan is available in Project file 7.5.
WAPTR
April 1987



_jMAtI                                                               NIE                  4. N      i'.       
/é/>xKI` i-> - -- </                                <N N IGER  X
NIGERIA
-4]     BURKINA                              tuOX.AAN
GUiN Î          F A S                            GA f-
,  Q GABON           . R   Konto            Ou
1~~.                        /                      .    .
r                       0F0W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10u0
l-            /'o-' f               ,`'    /    \    o/~~~~~~~' 
t   58FÇo     ^uf    <-ih-;D C7  oou'-'g   b\                NIGERIA
*j    Ktobli     Touloumbouno a         
10*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~04
onsO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
Bou*ob($«  Y  .»  I                  4
t  |)Iii  /    t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>g= À    51                                           0]~~~~~~~~~~~
|   ,ezee - æ ` > -    o4wb  N                                                               l~I"Mor
/   INGUIE% 
I            /91>/>tSt`' lKowrf
OMOnta~~~~~~~~     ,  !                      U         )



%  t    l  4*érof j;               g             2           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~B  E  N     N
9*œilo                 \                           ç;Ar-   TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE   9.
REHABILITATION AND
MAINTENANCE PROJECT
TOGO                                                                                              Laterite Roads to be Rehabilitated under the project
Sections of Paved Roads to be Reconstructed and
Vossu       Kiib    )                  Resurfaced (selected Iengths)
Mutoouss6                    ÀÂ    SPOAS Headquarters being established
ABot  uRegional Road Maintenance Divisions being established
DiébdKanfang duo                         *    Regional Mointenance Units to be estcblished
Exisling
}  )   / 2SMTP Main Workshop
_fou«l  }   )    }     DPETS Headquarters
D.  * è                                                      A     Regional Road Maintenance Divisions                   s.
Tchett4
i 1>  >    \Dw5b2Pouigna -X                                 Resurfaced or Regravelled under Previous Highway Praz,ecis
Tchee    L;-         S    c{                 -P~~~~~~~~~~~aved Rocds
t  9  Â1 3A SSAZOu g<Xr     <                Earth Roads
G \ dbedvoks
I  ,rs V +~~~~~~~~~~--41  Raifways
* &s °>+ Internationad Airport
i        * @~      +~  Regional Airports
!   S   Don t  t         ,gKIou               9   Capitals .
Atmné Avégamê                                                             0 s I  Region Capitals
O                                          n AhIj                  Region Boundaries
!agon    _ni      o     b b -International Boundaries
7* 
AI tolOe>Isab
li ou    ILOMETERS o      20      40      60      80      t00
AgOrndMILEtS o                                                    10    20    30    40    5o    60
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~t5t 'S a t                                                        .té
LogbSi*at_w~__~_»                                                                            _ - u
k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
rond.pbpo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m. 0.wpn.m,mm.mmm m.. f 
LOME~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m ~                                                             m',m.mm   .



c    o           T Z, (O
Main entrance to port
é  ntronice                               E      bF ~ ol               [
'ou'~~~~~~~~D
Ro Bo ram-                  Nw                            t             Old commercial berths
\  _   New bosin dredged       _                               Existing port basin
to -1 1 meters (-36 feet)     Groin-   eters -36 feet)
, or,                            1                                       \
41-                                    - -  m     36-feet)
BENIN                                                            P
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE REHABIUTTION
AND MAINTENANCE PROJECI
Cutf breakwater
MeProiect Areu
7La Q 0Built.up areo
Railways
Port Customs Fence



IBRD 1947
I_I_______-__                                                                             ,)  NIGER   (
C1  1  u   | r ,  , ! L                                          +   BURKINA \ - x (
FASO
J                     s~~
EZJ              I                                                                                    E N  1 N Jv
122    I         Fishing                                                                  TOGO               NIGERIA
port                                                                    TOQNGEA
Boot repoir                                                  Derelict          
elevotor                                                     wharf
(SycbrhfI                                                                           Cif
O,fUsed for                                                                       XPortoNovc ?    Lagos
et)            gXbulk vessels,                                                                               tonou
4'  petroleuan                                                                    Lom 
co t iners__                                                             _ _  _ _ _  _ _   _ _ _  _
New navigation buoy
0      100    200    300    400    500
METERS
JANUARY I98



