OFFICIAL
DOCUMEN TSW
CREDIT NUMBER 1807 BEN
Development Credit Agreement
(Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation
and Maintenance Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1807 BEN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                      -2q<    , 1987, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN     ( e Borrower) and     INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Ass/ciation to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) Parts A (a) through (e) and C (a) of the Project will
be carried out by Port Autonome de Cotonou (PAC) with the Bor-
rower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to PAC part of the proceeds of the Credit as
provided in this Agreement;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from Caisse Centrale
de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) a loan (the CCCE Loan) in an
amount equivalent to two million four hundred thousand dollars
($2,400,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the CCCE Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and CCCE;
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from European Develop-
ment Fund, European Economic Community (EDF) a grant (the EDF
Grant) in an amount equivalent to twenty-three million dollars
($23,000,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EDF Conven-
tion) to be entered into between the Borrower and EDF;
(E) the Borrower intends to contract from the Republic of
France, acting through the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC),
a grant (the FAC Grant) in an amount equivalent to one million
four hundred thousand dollars ($1,400,000) to assist in financing
part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the FAC Grant Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and the Republic of France;
(F) the Borrower intends to contract from Islamic Develop-
ment Bank (IDB) a loan (the IDB Loan) in an amount of three
million six hundred thousand Islamic Dinars (IslD 3,600,000) to
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in an agreement (the IDB Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and IDB;


﻿-2-
(G) the Borrower intends to contract from Banque Ouest
Africaine de D6veloppement (BOAD) a loan (the BOAD Loan) in an
amount of two billion CFA Francs (CFAF 2,000,000,000) to assist
in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the BOAD Loan Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and BOAD;
(H) the Borrower intends to contract from the African
Development Fund (the African Fund) a loan (the African Fund
Loan) in an amount equivalent to eight million six hundred
thousand dollars ($8,600,000) to assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the African Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and the African Fund; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and PAC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and PAC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and PAC pursuant to Section


﻿-3-
3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c) "MET" means    the Ministere de 1'Equipement et des
Transports, the Borrower's ministry responsible for equipment and
transport, or any successor thereto;
(d) "DROA" means the Direction des Routes et Ouvrages
d'Art, the Borrower's directorate of roads and bridges within
MET, or any successor thereto;
(e) "DEP" means the Direction des Etudes et de la Planifi-
cation, the Borrower's directorate of studies and planning within
MET, or any successor thereto;
(f) "DFR" means the Direction du Fondz Routier, the Bor-
rower's directorate of the road funds within MET, or any suc-
cessor thereto;
(g) "PAC" means Port Autonome de Cotonou, a public enter-
prise established by the Borrower's Law No. 64-39 of December 31,
1964, and "PAC Statutes" means the Statutes of PAC approved by
the Borrower's Decret No. 84-250 of June 22, 1984, as such
Statutes may be amended from time to time;
(h) "OBEMAP"   means   Office  Beninois  des   Manutentions
Portuaires, a public enterprise established by the Borrower's
Decret No. 69-80 of March 27, 1969, and "OBEMAP Statutes" means
the  Statutes of   OBEMAP  appioved  by  the  Borrower's  Decret
No. 84-375 of October 8, 1984 as such Statutes may be amended
from time to time;
(i) "Special Account" means the special account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(j) "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(k) "Project Preparation Advances" means collectively the
project preparation advances granted by the Association to the
Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated September 13,
1983, December 9, 1983, December 11, 1984, February 27, 1985 and
May 13, 1985 between the Borrower and the Association; and


﻿-4-
(1)  "CFA Franc" or "CFAF" means the Franc de la Communaut6
Financiare Africaine, the common currency of the Borrower and the
other members of the West African Monetary Union.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifteen million two hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 15,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF a special account (the Special Account)
in the Cotonou branch of the Central Bank for West African Coun-
tries on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1995 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from


﻿-5-
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing November 1, 1997, and ending May 1,
2037. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 1, 2007 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. PAC is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions in respect of
Categories (1) through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01 (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts B and C (d) of
the Project through DROA, Part C (c) of the Project through DEP
and Part C (e) of the Project through DFR and shall cause OBEMAP
to carry out Parts A (f) and C (b) of the Project, all with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate road
engineering, economic, financial and administrative practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts B and C
(b) through (e) of the Project in accordance with the Implementa-
tion Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause PAC to perform in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of PAC therein
set forth (including the obligations set forth in Section 4.02
(d) (ii) of the Project Agreement), shall take and cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
PAC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(d) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to Categories (1) through (3) of the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to PAC under a sub-
sidiary loan agreement   to be entered into between the Borrower
and PAC under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Association which shall include repayment terms over
eighteen years including a three-year grace period and an annual
interest rare of eight percent (8%), the foreign exchange risk
being borne by PAC.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the


﻿-7-
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Without any limitation upon any of its
obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall:
(a)  establish and maintain a Project Account in a commer-
cial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
to be used exclusively for the purpose of meeting expenditures
under Parts B and C (c), (d) and (e) of the Project not financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit; and
(b)    deposit or cause to be deposited in the Project
Account, promptly before the beginning of each quarter of its
fiscal year, the Borrower's contribution towards expenditures
under Parts B and C (c), (d) and (e) of the Project during such
quarter.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
require' for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to in-
surance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Parts A (a) through (e) and C (a) of the Project shall
be carried out by PAC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01 (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts B and C (c), (d) and (e) of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsi-
ble for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.


﻿(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section including those for the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently  applied,   by  independent  auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(ii), enable the Association's representatives to exa-
mine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such reports and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-


﻿-9-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
(d) The Borrower shall cause OBEMAP to maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of OBEMAP.
(e) The Borrower shall cause OBEMAP to:
(i) have its records, accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing   principles  consistently   applied,  by
independent auditors acceptable to the Asso-
ciation;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.02. Until the completion of the Project, by
August 31 of each year or such other date as the Association may
agree, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its
approval its proposed annual investment plan (new investments and
rehabilitation), as well as its proposed annual expenditures for
recurrent needs, for the entire transport sector.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. -Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:


﻿- 10 -
(a) PAC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date o4 the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that PAC
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c) PAC Statutes shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of PAC to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of PAC or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obliga-
tions under such agreement; and
(B)  adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower;
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) any event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and PAC;
(b) the    Borrower   has   opened   the   Project   Account
and  deposited   therein   an  amount   of  fifty   million  CFAF
(CFAF 50,000,000);
(c) PAC's tariffs, effective as of July 1, 1985, have been
increased by: (i) 10% for ship dues and demurrage for goods; and
(ii) 5% for other port tariffs except for the droits sur les
marchandises;
(d)  all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
EDF Convention, the    IDB  Loan  Agreement and   the  BOAD  Loan
Agreement other than any related to the effectiveness of this
Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
(e) the Presidential Directive on an adequate increase in
funds earmarked to the Borrower's Road Fund for road maintenance,
derived from fuel taxes, has been signed.


﻿- 12 -
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by PAC and is legally binding upon PAC in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized by the Borrower and PAC and is legally binding upon
the Borrower and PAC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date one-hundred twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Arti-
cle IV of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (a) and
(b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
P.O. Box 302
Cotonou
People's Republic of Benin


﻿- 13 -
Cable address:                         Telex:
MINIFINANCES                         MIFIN 5009 or
Cotonou                              5289 or
MININDART 5252
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                         Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By //C~4t4t/.kl2L
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
PAC Expenditures
(1)  Works for Part A         1,250,000          90%
(c) and (d) of
the Project
(2)  Equipment, tools           160,000         100%
and spare parts
for Parts A (d)
and (e) and C (a)
of the Project
(3)  Consultants' ser-        1,330,000         100%
vices and training
for Parts A and C (a)
of the Project
MET Expenditures
(4) Road rehabilitation       2,650,000          90%
and maintenance
for Part B (b)
of the Project
(5)  Building and               470,000          80%
workshop repair
for Part B (d)
of the Project


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6) Equipment, tools          2,730,000        100%
and spare parts
for Parts B (c)
and C (c) and (d)
of the Project
(7) Consultants' ser-         2,650,000        100%
vices and training
for Parts B (b)
and C (c), (d) and
(e) of the Project
(8) Refunding of                770,000        Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                          suant to Section
tion Advances                             2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(9) Unallocated               3,190,000
TOTAL              15,200,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) rehabilitate and
maintain the Borrower's priority transport infrastructure in the
port and highway sub-sectors; (b) strengthen the institutions
responsible for road maintenance, transport planning, port
management and cargo-handling; (c) increase private sector
participation in road maintenance by reducing works carried out
under force account; and (d) improve cost recovery and
maintenance funding in the port and highway sub-sectors and in
cargo-handling activities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives.
Part A:   Port Rehabilitation Program
(a) Repair of the old commercial quay, aprons and railway
tracks;
(b) repair of Eastern breakwater;
(c) protection of the South bank of the new basin,
strengthening of the cut-off breakwater and dredging of the
access channel;
(d) rehabilitation of transit sheds, workshops and ship
repair facilities;
(e) improvement of PAC maintenance facilities; and
(f) improvement of OBEMAP maintenance facilities.
Part B:   Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program
(a) Resurfacing of the following paved road sections:
(i) Parakou-Malanville (about 317 km);
(ii) Porto-Novo-Pobe (about 61 km); and
(iii) Come-Zoungbonou-Lokossa-Dogbo (about 61 km).


﻿- 17 -
(b) Rehabilitation and regravelling of gravel roads (about
1,000 km).
(c) Acquisition of road maintenance equipment, spare parts
and tools for equipment maintenance.
(d) Construction/repair of DROA facilities.
Part C:   Institution Building Program
(a) PAC: carrying out of a study for future maintenance
dredging policy; improvement of its management system including
internal audit, cost accounting, personnel administration and
data processing; development of its maintenance capacity;
establishment of operational statistics; and carrying out of a
training program, including on-the-job training, fellowships and
provision of training aids.
(b) OBEMAP: improvement of operational statistics, cost
accounting, organization of training and personnel administra-
tion; modernization of workshops and improvement of equipment
maintenance; and carrying out of a training program.
(c) DEP: assistance for transport sector policy formula-
tion; and carrying out of a training program, including fellow-
ships, provision of training aids and assistance from similar
experienced and qualified institutions.
(d) DROA: assistance in the reorganization of the road and
equipment maintenance system; and carrying out of a training
program, including fellowships, provision of training aids and
assistance from similar experienced and qualified institutions.
(e) DFR:   assistance   for   management  improvement   and
establishment of an internal audit unit.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1994.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Except a8 provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in People's
Republic of Benin may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs I through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Equipment,, tools and spare parts estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, and building
and workshop repairs may be procured under contracts awarded on
the  basis  of   competitive  bidding,   advertised  locally,  in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Equipment, tools and spare parts estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of $600,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association; provided, however, that spare parts to be compatible
with existing equipment may be purchased at reasonable prices
directly from the original suppliers in accordance with proce-
dures satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Works for road maintenance under Part B (b) of the Project
may be either: (i) procured under contracts awarded on the basis


﻿- 19 -
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association or, where appropriate,
(ii) carried out under force account by DROA up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $3.6 million.
Part D: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower and PAC in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower and PAC shall employ consultants whose


﻿- 20 -
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Associaticn on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.   The Borrower shall carry out: (a) through DROA, its action
plan covering the period 1988-1993 for road maintenance and
management; and (b) through DEP, its action plan covering the
period 1988-1993 for transport planning management; all with due
diligence and efficiency.
2.   The Borrower shall ensure that its Road Fund established and
operating under the Borrower's Decret No. 84-98 of February 20,
1984 shall be used exclusively for road maintenance activities.
3.   The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that its Centre National des
Bureaux de Fret (CNBF) established and operating under the
Borrower's Decret No. 84-68 of January 31, 1984 shall facilitate
road transport activities in Benin; and (b) by December 31, 1988,
shall evaluate the action of CNBF in consultation with the Asso-
ciation to decide whether further reform is needed.
4.   The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that OBEMAP enters, not later
than December 31, 1987, into an action plan covering the period
1988-1993, acceptable to the Association and, thereafter, carries
out said plan with due diligence and efficiency; said plan shall
provide, inter alia, for installment payments by OBEMAP of its
debt arrears to PAC; and (b) annually exchange views with the
Association on OBEMAP's performance in comparison with targets
acceptable to the Association and, in case that OBEMAP's
performance falls significantly below said targets by December
31, 1988, reorganize its cargo-handling activities in a manner
satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-22 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule I
to this Agreement;
(b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to CFAF 180,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Asso-iation shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 23 -
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any special commitment entered into by the
Association  pursuant  to  Section  5.02 of   the
General  Conditions,   shall  be  equal   to  the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Associa-
tion shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further with-
drawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.


﻿- 24 -
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


