                                             Documentof
                                           The World Bank


                                     FOR OFFICIALUSEONLY


                                                                              ReportNo. 36778-LR




                                PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT


                                               FORTHE


                                TRUST FUNDFORLIBERIA (TFLIB)
                                              (TF057072)


                                 INTHEAMOUNT OF8.5 MILLION


                                                FORA


             LIBERIA INFRASTRUCTUREREHABILITATIONPROJECT(LIRP)




                                           November 7,2006




Afnca Transport
CountryDepartment 10
Afnca Region


 This document has arestncted distribution and may beusedbyrecipients only inthe performance of
 their official duties.Its contents mavnot otherwise bedisclosed without WorldBankauthorization.

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
            (Exchange RateEffective September29,2006)
                   CurrencyUnit = LRD
                    59.5000LRD = US$1
                     0.6769SDR = US$1
                      US$1.4773 = SDRl

                              FISCAL YEAR
                              July 1-June 30


                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB      Africa Development Bank
BWI       BrettonWoods Institutions
CAA       Civil Aviabon Authonty
CD        Chart Datum
CPA       Comprehensive Peace Agreement
CRN       Country Re-engagement Note
DDRR      Demobilization, Disarmament, Rehabilitation and Reintegration
Dwt       Deadweight tonnage (vessel carrying capacity)
EC        European Commission
EGSC      Economic Governance Steering Committee
EIP       Emergency Infrastructure Project (pre-arrears grant)
EMP       EnvironmentalMitigationPlan
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GEMAP     Governance and Economic Management Assistance Program
GOL       Government o f Libena
HIPC      Heavily IndebtedPoor Countnes
HSES-MP   Health, Safety, Environmental and Social ManagementPlans
IBRD      InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
ICAO      International Civil Aviation Organization
IDA       InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
IDPS      Internally DisplacedPersons
I F I S   InternationalFinancial Institutions
IMF       InternationalMonetary Fund
ISPS      International Ship and Port Facility Secmty Code
LICUS     L o w Income Country under Stress
LIRP      Libena Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
LNP       Libena National Police
LPRC      Libena PetroleumRefinery Corporation
LPS       Libena Port Security
LRDC      Libena Reconstruction and Development Committee
M o F     MinistryofFinance
MPW       MinistryofPublic Works
NA        Needs Assessment
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
NPA       National Port Authority
NTGL      National Transitional Government o f Libena
OM        OperationManual
PAD       Project Appraisal Document

             P E W         Preliminary Environmental Assessment              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
             PMP           Port Master Plan
             PRSP          Poverty Reduction Strategy Policy
             R&FF          Rescue and Fire-Fighting
             RFTF          ResultsFocusedTransition Framework
             RIA           Roberts International Airport
             RIAA          Roberts International Airport Agency
             RIMCO         RFTFImplementationManagement Committee
             ROM           Rough-Order-Magnitude
             RPF           Resettlement Policy Framework
             RSA           Rapid Social Assessment
              S I U        Special ImplementationUnit
              SMP          Staff MonitoredProgram
              SOE          State-Owned Enterprise
              SOP          Standard Operating Procedures
              TA           Technical Assistance
              TFLIB        Trust Fundfor Liberia
              UN           UnitedNations
              UNDP         UnitedNations Development Programme
             UNMIL         UnitedNationsMission inLibena
                           UnitedNations Office for Project Semces
              us
              UNOPS
                           UnitedStates
              USAID        UnitedStates Agency for International Development




                                    Vice President:        GobindT Nankani
                                 Country Director:        Mats Karlsson
                                  Sector Manager:          C. Sanjivi Rajaslngham
                                Task Team Leader:          GylfiPalsson




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                                       TABLE OFCONTENTS


                                                                                                                                                          2
A.1 Country andSector Issues
A.        STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                                ..............................................................
                                                     ................................................................................................     2
A.2      Rationale for Bank's Involvement...................................................................................                              7
A.3      HigherLevel Objectives to whichthe Project Contributes                                             ............................................. 8
B.       PROJECT DESCRIPTION           ..............................................................................................................
                                                       ..............................................................................................     8
B.1      Grant Instrument                                                                                                                                 8
B.2      Project Development objective andKey Indicators........................................................                                          8
B.3      Project Components                 .........................................................................................................     8
B.4      Lessons Learned andReflected inthe Project Design...................................................                                            10
B.5      Alternatives ConsideredandReasonsfor Rejection                                                                                                  11
C
c.1
 .                                                                                              ......................................................
         IMPLEMENTATION                        ....................................................................................................
         Partnership Arrangements..............................................................................................                          11
                                                                                                                                                         11
c.2      Institutionaland Implementation Arrangements                                      ........................................................... 11
(2.3     MonitonngandEvaluation of Outcomes/Results
                          . .                                                               ..........................................................   12
c.4       Sustainability.,         ................................................................................................................      12
c.5 CnticalRisksandPossibleControversialAspects ........................................................                                                 13
(2.6     Grant Conditions and Covenants                          ...................................................................................     13
D.       PipPRAISAL SUMMARY............................................................................................                                  14
D 1      Economic andFinancial Analyses                            .................................................................................     14
D.2      Technical........................................................................................................................               16
D.3      Fiduciary        ........................................................................................................................       17
D 4       Social..............................................................................................................................           18
D.5      Environmental             ................................................................................................................      18
D.6      SafeguardPolicies
                 .                       ..........................................................................................................      19
D 7      Policy Exceptions and Readiness.,                         .................................................................................     19

   Annex 2: Results Framework andMonitonng......................................................................
   Annex 1 Country and Sector Background                                 ...........................................................................     21
                                                                                                                                                         29
   Annex 3 Detailed Project Descnption .................................................................................                                 32
   Annex 4: Project Costs                ..........................................................................................................      36
   Contingencies irrelevant as civil works cost estimates are based onRough Order Magnitude
   ...............................................................................................................................................
                . ImplementationArrangements..............................................................................                               36

  Annex 6: Financial Management andDisbursementArrangements ....................................
  Annex 5                                                                                                                                                37
                                                                                                                                                         39
   Annex 7 Procurement Arrangements...................................................................................                                   46

  Annex 9: Preparation and Supervision .................................................................................
  Annex 8       .. Safeguards.............................................................................................................               51
                                                                                                                                                         59
  Annex 10: Documents inthe Project File                                                                                                                 60
  Annex 11 Country at a Glance..
                   .                                    ...........................................................................................
                                                                       .............................................................................
                                                                                                                                                         61
  Annex 12: Map .....................................................................................................................                    62


                                        LIBERIA

               LIBERIAINFRASTRUCTUREREHABILITATION PROJECT

                           PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                        AFRICA

                                         AFTTR

Date: November 7,2006                         Team Leader: Gylfi Palsson
Country Director: Mats Karlsson               Sectors: Ports, waterways and shipping
Sector ManagerDirector: C. Sanjivi            (75%);Aviation (15%);General transportation
Rajasingham                                   sector (10%)
                                              Themes: Infiastructure services for pnvate
                                              sector development (P);Administrative and
                                              civil service reform(S)
Project ID. P101456                           Environmental screening category. Partial
                                              Assessment
LendingInstrument: Emergency Recovery
Loan
                                  ProjectFinancingData                                     1
[ ] Loan   [ 3 Credit  [ ] Grant  [ ] Guarantee    [XI Other: Special Funding

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 0.00




Total:                                           0.00              8.50             8.50

Borrower:                                                                                   I
Government of Libena
Libena

ResponsibleAgency:
              - "
                                                                                           I
                        Estimateddisbursements(BankFY/US$m)
:Y             7       8        9    I  10    I   11    I    0       0         0       0
h u a l       2.20     3.10     1.90    0.90     0.40        0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
Zumulative    2.20     5.30     7.20    8.10     8.50        8.50    8.50     8.50     8.50

Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
Re$ PAD A.3                                                                        [          No
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                        [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                       [ ]Yes [XINO
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                       [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project include any cntical nsks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Re$ PAD C.5                                                                        [XIYes [ ] N o
Does the project meet the Regional cntena for readiness for implementation?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                        [ ]Yes [XINO

Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, Technical Annex 3
To provide Government with emergency support to restore pnonty infrastructure inthe port o f
Monrovia and at Roberts InternationalAirport and assist the Government indeveloping medium
term strategic framework for efficient andproductive port and aviation sectors.

Project descnption[one-sentence summary of each componentJ Re$ PAD B.3.a, Technical
Annex 4
Component A: Infrastructure Rehabilitation: (Total US$ 7.70 million).

The Technical Assessment Report o f Emergency and Longer Term Actions required inthe Port
o f Monrovia lists some 25 different projects identified through detailed discussions and
workshops with the National Port Authonty (NPA) and stakeholders.

Component B: Technical Assistance and Capacity Building: (Total US$O.15 million).

Provision o f selective and ad-hoc technical assistance to Government, including support to
develop a strategic framework for the sub-sectors, as well as targeted training inNPA and RIA to
complement normalization o f operations.

Component C: Project Management: (Total US$0.65 million).

Overall implementation responsibility will be by the Ministry o f Public Works through a Special
Implementation Unit (SIU) beingset up and which will provide coordination, procurement,
M&Eand support to safeguard management. Financial Managementwill beunderthe auspices
o f the Ministryo f Finance, through a Project FinancialManagement Unit (PFMU), also inthe
process o f beingset up.

Which safeguard policies are tnggered, ifany? Re$ PAD D.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
This project is inCategory B for environmental assessment.

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Re$ PAD C.7
Boardpresentation:
This project will not be going to the Boardbutwill be approvedby the Afnca Vice President's
office.

Loadcredit effectiveness:
Conditions o f effectiveness are:

i)TheSIUhasbeenestablishedundertermsofreferenceacceptabletotheBankandtheProject
Coordinator and the procurement specialist appointed, under terms o f reference andwith
qualifications and expenence acceptable to the Bank, from either existing staff o fthe Recipient
or recruited under the Bank's Procurement Guidelines; and,

ii)ThePFMUhasbeenestablishedundertermsofreferenceacceptabletotheBankandan
accountant appointed, under terms o freference andwith qualifications and expenence that are
acceptable to the Bank, from either existing staff o f the Recipient or recruitedunder the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines.

Covenants applicable to project implementation:
a) The Government with support from the Bank will tender through a competitive and
transparent process a Container Terminal Contract inthe port o f Monroviano later thanby end
o fDecember 2006.

b) The Government will ensurethat Roberts InternationalAirport cames 3rdparty
liability/aircraft insurance. Procurement for the benefit o f RIAAi s contingent on this insurance
beinginplace.


A.       STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

A.1      Country and Sector Issues

1.       Libena had been a middle-income country before the civil war began in late 1989
Fifteen years o f brutal war devastated the country's economy, its physical infrastructure, and its
human assets. In August 2003, the warring parties ended hostilities with the signing o f the
Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) in Accra, Ghana, and a National Transitional
Government (NTGL) was established to administer a two-year intenm period leading to national
elections in October 2005. The United Nations Mission in Libena (UNMIL)was created and was
given the mandate to support the implementation o f the peace process.

2.       In 2003, the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and the World Bank
undertook a needs assessment for Libena which led to the development o f a Results Focused
Transitional Framework (RFTF). The activlties in the RFTF were organized by cluster, and the
Bank took the lead inthe Infrastructure and Economic Management clusters. With a lead role in
Infrastructure, the Bank agreed to undertake assessments o f the emergency needs on transport,
power, water, and telecommunications.

3.       InMarch2004, the Bank's Executive Directors discussed a re-engagement strategy for
Libena.' This strategy outlines a plan for Bank re-engagement within the RFTF in three pnonty
areas: economic management, infrastructure rehabilitation, and community-based development.
The Bank's strategy envisaged financing from both the L o w Income Countries under Stress
(LICUS) Trust Fund and a grant from the Bank's surplus. Subsequently, the Board o f Governors
o f the Bank approved the transfer from surplus to a Trust Fundfor Libena (TFLIB) inthe amount
o f US$25 million as a grant to be administered by IDA. Since then, TFLIB and LICUS funds
have financed technical assistance for institutionbuildingand small scale investments inthe three
priority areas. The Bank will prepare an fitenm Strategy Note (ISN), covering the period FY08-
09 which will be based on the Government's forthcoming development strategy, the Interim
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP).

4.       Libena today i s one o f Ahca's poorest nations, wth a Gross Domestic Product per
capita o f approximately US$151 and arrears to the International Financial Institutions (IFIS)
amounting to US$1.4 billion, o f which US$456 million i s owed to the Bank. Fifteen years o f war
and mismanagement have undermined capacity and depleted Libena's pool o f skilled human
resources. In order to restore basic financial management and to address long-standing
governance problems, the Government has embraced the Governance and Economic
Management Assistance Program (GEMAP) which involves robust international technical
assistance to key ministnes, the Central Bank and revenue generating agencies.

5.       Significant steps have been taken by the Government to improve financial management,
including a review o f concessions, strengthening o f tax and customs administration and improved
functioning of the cash management committee. These steps have been recognizedby the IMF as
demonstration o f progress under the Staff Monitored Program (STP), which was initiated inApril
2006, and i s expected to lay the ground for normalization o f relations with the multi-lateral
development banks. Nevertheless governance and weak capacity remain a challenge in Liberia
and this project addresses this through the use and strengthening o f a Special Implementation
Unit (SIU) in the Ministry of Public Works as well as a Project Financial Management Unit
(PFMU) wthinthe Ministryo fFinance.


IIDA/R2004-0046, Liberia: Country Re-EngagementNote andAdditional Activities, March3, 2004.


                                                 2

6.       The proposed project i s in line with the Bank's strategy as articulated inthe Country Re-
engagement Note (CRN) which outlined a leadership role for the Bank in the infrastructure
sector. The project i s also in line with the new administration's expressed request for Bank
support in the emergency rehabilitation o f cntical infrastructure nodes. Finally, the project builds
on the work financed by the TFLIB - the preparation o f technical feasibility studies which
prioritized emergency works in five infrastructure sub-sectors - and the existence o f these studies
has greatly facilitated the preparation o f this operation.

7        The proposed Grant, which i s one o f a number o f grants funded out o f the TFLIB,
responds to the request o f the GOL for emergency funds and aims to reinstate cntical
infrastructure that was destroyed in the war. This PAD builds on the work carried out under the
Infrastructure Rehabilitation TA Project financed by TFLIB, which camed out a comprehensive
infrastructure needs assessment identifying critical emergency works. Of these urgent needs, the
Bank agreed with Government to focus on a short-term program of road rehabilitation, labor-
intensive public works, and cntical repairs o f the port and airport infrastructure, usingthe various
instruments at its disposal.     A US$30 million IDA pre-arrears clearance grant (Emergency
Infrastructure Project) i s supporting critical road rehabilitation activities, while a $16.5 million
additional financing component i s supporting labor-intensive road repairs and small labor-
intensive works in Monrowa in order to generate employment and wsible results for the
population' The proposed activities under this PAD focus on the most critical emergency works
in the port and airport sub-sectors in the amount of US$8.5 million. It is expected that other
partners will come together to prowde financing for the remaining prionty infrastructure needs.
T o this end, an international Partners' Forum will take place in February 2007 to discuss
Government's development strategy and to explore possibilities for new donor flows in support
o f Government' s pnonties.

Sector Issues

8.       The transport sector inLiberia prior to the civil war included road and railway networks,
civil aviation, and several ports. Today, the railway network does not exist, civil awation i s
limited to Monrovia with only UN flights operating upcountry, and the Port o f Monrowa i s the
only operational port inthe country

9        Duringthe years o f conflict, the sector was able to undertake intermittent maintenance
activities but no penodic maintenance. Partial rehabilitation and new construction were sporadic
and limited in scope. As a result o f the chronic undennvestment and lack o f maintenance, the
rehabilitation requirements o f the sector today are enormous.

10.      The Government recognizes the urgency o f the situation and has pleaded for donor
assistance to the sector. The TFLB-financed infrastructure feasibility studies provided technical
assessments o f the Port o f Monrovia, the Roberts International Airport in Monrovia as well as
assessment o f two o f the main road comdors in the country The studies identified emergency
works and developed bidding documents that have been shared with donors. Given the capital
intensity o fthe sector, few donors have yet pledged funds for large-scale transportation projects.

11.      The roads sub-sector is mentioned bnefly inthis document as it i s subject o f the recently
approved IDA project, the Emergency Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project. The railway sub-
sector i s expected to be picked up by private investors when and if the mining sector takes up
again. Manne transport and civil awation are central to sustain and expand economic actiwties in

'See Liberia: Emergency Infrastructure Project. (IDA/R2006-OIOO), June 1,2006 and Liberia
Emergency Infrastructure Project -Supplemental Component. (IDA/R2006-0192), October 6,2006.


                                                   3

Libena and as such a top Governmental pnonty In addition, marine transport and civil aviation
infringe on issues of safety, security, and stability ina country still characterized as a fragile post-
conflict environment. Sector issues are discussed at length inAnnex 1.

Sector Strategy

 12.      Repair o f cntical infrastructure at the port and the airport was declared a top priority o f
the new Government because o f its direct impact on safety (airport), stability and long-term peace
(port).   In addition, by improvlng operational efficiency and financial transparency, the
Government aims to increase public revenues and fight corruptive practices. Following the lifting
of the UNsanctions on diamonds and timber, the Port o f Monrovla i s expected to become a key
gate for trade export.

Maritime Sub-sector

 13.      Libena has five ports, Monroma, Buchanan, Greenville, Harper and Robertsport. Before
the war these ports handled about 200,000 tons o f general cargo and around 400,000 tons o f
petroleum products per year. In addition, Monrovia and Buchanan handled all the bulk iron ore
exports, and Buchananand Greenville were responsible for most o f the timber exports.

 14.      Civil war and international sanctions severely disrupted port operations while extensive
looting rendered most o f the facilities useless. Today, nearly 100% o f the dry-bulkand containers
trade i s being handled through the Port o f Monrovia. In addition, its fuel jetty i s responsible for
 100% o f fuel (oil, gasoline and jet fuel) imports. The other ports are barely operational with
negligible trans-shipment activities between Monromaand the four smaller ports.

15.       Given the above volumes, the Port o f Monrovia i s the supply line/economic life-line o f
Libena, responsible for nearly all imports and exports from the country A large exporter o f
timber, rubber, iron ore, and agncultural products in the past, Liberia's economy today i s mostly
import-based. The pnmary food for the population i s imported nce. Its price, as well as that o f
fuel, i s directly correlated to port accessibility and efficiency The availability and price-stability
o f imported commodities impacts stability in a country where fluctuation of nce-prices fueled
two o f the civil wars. Unsurpnsingly, the needs assessment for Libena, developed jointly by
UNDP and the World Bankprioritized the reinstatement o f operations inthe Port o f Monrovia as
a most critical activity inthe sector.

16.       Physical infrastructure at the port i s in a generally deplorable state. Collapse o f cntical
infrastructure and superstructure of the port i s imminent. The physical layout o f the port i s
unsuitable for modem port operations. These operations are further hampered by the
unavailability o f equipment, in both number and quality, and the general lack o f maintenance o f
said equipment.

17        Inpreparationof the proposed project and as part of the TFLIB-supported Infrastructure
TA, the Bank financed the technical assessment of the Port o f Monrovia with the aim o f
identifying emergency works and actions to bringoperations to acceptable levels. The assessment
concludedthat immediate intervention i s needed to rehabilitate the infrastructure in order to keep
the Port operational. Identified emergency works are inthe range o f US$40 million, o f which this
project proposes to support critical repairs cost at about US$7.0 million. A longer-term Port
Master Plan including an assessment o f the different management options to support long term
sustainability has been developed for remew and discussion with the Government.




                                                    4

18.      InApril 2005, UNMIL secured the port and since then is responsible for the providing
on-site secunty Today security at the port i s providedjointly by UNMILand the Libena National
Police (LNP).

CivilAviation

19       Roberts International Airport (RIA), about 45 km outside Monrovia, i s the only
international airport inthe country and the only airport open for fixed wing traffic. James Spnggs
Payne located wthin Monrovia's city boundanes as well as several other functioning airports are
operated by and used only for UN flights to transport UN personnel and equipment. All other
domestic civil aviation ceased dunngthe years o f stnfe.

20.      Before the war, Libena had one operational international airline, Libena Airways.
However, it has since been closed and its assets sold off. At present, air traffic i s sparse with only
one international airline and three infrequentWest A h c a n carriers servicing Libena.

21.      Duringthe war penod, the airport suffered severe damage to the point that operations had
to be suspended for several years. The runway became inoperable due to craters and other
damage as a result o f bombings. The terminal building was burned down. From 1998 to 2002
rehabilitation works were undertaken under a grant donatedby the Republic o f China (Taiwan) in
which the runway pavement surface was repaired, new navigational equipment installed and three
fire trucks were delivered.

22.      In2003 following the CPA, UNMILsecuredRIA and stationed a large troop contingent
at the airport premises. Today, security at RIA continues to be the full responsibility o f UNMIL.
A Standard OperatingProcedures (SOP) document for RIAwas draftedbyUNMILand approved
in 2004. Throughout this period, UNMIL has been implementing limited maintenance and
rehabilitation works at the airport.

23.      In2005, the Bank financed from TFLIB the technical assessment of RIA.It identified
emergency works needed to ensure safety o f airport operations for US$4 million. Of these, the
most critical portion costed at US$0.6 million is proposed for funding under this project. None o f
these proposed works will be financed by UNMIL. A longer-term Master Plan for the
development o f RIA, including institutional changes has been developed and submitted to the
GOL for review and discussion.

InstitutionalFramework

24.      The Ministryo f Transport i s responsible for developingpolicy directions for the transport
sector and as such i s responsible for the maritime and avlation sub-sectors as well. Currently, the
Ministryhas little capacity to implement this responsibility Duringthe war, the Ministrylost its
data and documentation to perform its duties. Its offices have been completely looted and there i s
no equipment left. The Ministry i s in dire need o f all hnds o f basic office equipment, vehicles,
and training for its staff.

25.      Presently, there i s no National Transportation Plan or other holistic strategy for the
development o f the sector. While not envisaged in the proposed emergency project, technical
assistance for a longer-term institutionalreformo f the transport sector i s muchneeded.

26.      The Ministry o f Public Works i s responsible for execution o f publicly funded civil works.
Some core capacity and resources exist within the organization and the Emergency Infrastructure
Project (EIP) now under implementation, jointly with this Project, i s building targeted fiduciary


                                                 5

capacity through a Special Implementation Unit (SIU) to be hosted by the Ministry and a Project
Financial Management Unit (PFMU) at the Ministry o f Finance. The use o f these two units as
well as the assistance provided by international financial controllers through the GEMAP
framework will help ensure the proper use o f resources associated with both infrastructure
projects.

27       The National Port Authonty (NPA) has, with legislationpassed in 1974, been assigned to
manage all Liberia ports. The NPA i s an incorporated State-Owned Enterpnse (SOE), required to
provide and maintain port facilities and denve its main revenue from marine and port service,
storage and handling charges. NPA's management i s oversight by an Executive Board appointed
directly by the President.

28.      NPA is staffed with some 1,700 employees, which by international companson indicates
significant overstaffing. The port i s a public port with most services provided by NPA, who i s the
owner o f all facilities, infrastructure and superstructure. At its own accord, NPA has started a
gradual reduction in staff numbers.

29       The Roberts International Airport (RIA) and all its operations are managed by Roberts
International Airport Agency (RIAA). In contrast to the NPA, RIA has not been incorporatedand
technically, it i s a public budgetary entity, while in reality, it functions as a State-Owned
Enterpnse(SOE).

30.      The situation i s different at the newly established (January 2006) Civil Avlation
Authonty (CAA) where Government directly funds the CAA. Under the Governance Reform
Committee o f the NTGL, the civil aviation law was drafted, which pnncipally accommodated
Yamoussoukro declaration.

3 1.     Management practices at both the NPA and RIA are weak. Both entities were audited in
2004 as part o f a larger effort financed by the EC to establish a baseline for a follow-up institution
strengthening effort at five revenue-generating SOEs. Findings concluded weak management,
operational structures and systems, largely non-existent financial controls, and abundance o f
nontransparent, largely corruptive practices.

32.      To react to this challenge, the Government decided to mandate all SOEs to consolidate
their revenue collected inno more than two escrow accounts (for Libenan and foreign currencies)
at a Libena commercial bank. In addition, both SOEs were included on the GEMAP list where
internationally-recruited financial controllers with binding co-signature authority are being
deployed for a penod o f one to two years with the objective to improve financial management
practices. The financial controllers have been tasked to design, establish, and monitor a system o f
transparent financial management in order to secure revenue flows into the escrow accounts. The
financial controllers are also responsible for revlewing and signing all expenditure vouchers,
which should not exceed approved SOE budgets. Incases o f financial irregularities or disputes,
the financial controllers are mandated to submit the issue for review and resolution with one o f
the GEMAP bodies - the Technical Team or the EGSC. This stringent control mechanism has
been introduced in order to strengthen fiduciary practices while also build capacity at both SOEs.

33.     In addition to the financial controller, the NPA will benefit from a port operations
specialist for a period o f one to two years. The port specialist will review current operational
practices including tanff and fee structures, the NPA organigram and corresponding staffing
levels, and port secunty issues. The port specialist will work with the NPA and the Bank
Technical Assistance (TA) provided under this project to develop the strategic framework for the



                                                  6

sector and draft a plan for corporate reorganization. Both the financial controllers and the port
operations expert are financed by USAID.

Responseof the InternationalCommunity

34.      Investment needs in Libena are enormous, span across all sectors, and reach tens o f
millions o f dollars. The two largest international donors - the United States (US) and the
European Commission (EC), who are collectively responsible for close to 70% o f pledged funds
inthe transitional penod, are active inthe social andutility sectors. The Bank, on the other side,
has been leading the dialogue with the Government inthe transport sector. Inpartnership with the
Bank, the United States Agency for InternationalDevelopment (USAID) has funded the financial
controllers and the port operations specialist at the two SOEs, while UNMILprovides security at
both the airport and the port. Recently, potential interest was also signaled by the U S to invest
additional funds at the Port o f Monrowa. The Bank team has initiated discussions with U S
officials on possible US-funded investments and will pursue this possibility throughout project
preparatiordimplementation.

35.      The volume o f required investments to rehabilitate transport infrastructure and achieve
tangible results have made it difficult for donors to engage inthe sector. As a result, rehabilitation
o f the transport infrastructure on a large scale with the goal o f producing quality transport
corndors vital to sustained economic development and trade facilitation has yet to be undertaken.

A.2      Rationale for Bank's Involvement

36.      Libena was classified as a middle-income country before the war. During the years o f
conflict it expenenced a significant decline in living standards and i s currently one o f Akita's
poorest nations. The peace agreement and the subsequent stability, resulting in the successful
election o f a new Government, offer Libena a unique opportunity to rebuild its shattered
economy and to establish a stable and democratic society After years o f war and dictatorship
which saw aid from the international community almost disappear, Libena today i s supported by
major international partners in an effort to promote stability inWest Afnca a region o f frequent
                                                                              -
conflicts and chronic instability

37      The case for Bank involvement in Libena at this time i s compelling. Following nearly 3
years o f peace and with a democratically-elected Government inplace, the ground i s prepared for
reconstruction and recovery Inorder to builda functioning economy and restore the livelihood o f
the country's population, Libena's new Government needs to be able to rely on an adequate
response from international donors both in terms o f expertise and finance. In addition, peace
provides a window o f opportunity for the Bank to rebuild its knowledge base and understanding
o f national partner institutions, both o f which are essential to increase readiness for a Bank
lendingprogram when that becomes possible.

38.     The Bank has had extensive involvement in the rehabilitation o f the economic
management o f post-conflict countnes and collapsed states worldwde. The Bank's expertise in
reinstating large-scale transport infrastructure i s equally broad and can be used successfully in a
country indire need o f experience and resources.

39      The activities proposed under this Grant build on the infrastructure TA work carried out
under TFLIB, and are in line with the overall Bank's assistance for Libena outlined in the CRN.
The proposed project will help the GOL mobilize resources from other donors and in
coordinating various inputs and contributions. Such coordination is essential in assisting the
Government while they establish and coherently manage the overall reconstructionprogram.


                                                   7

40.      Immediate emergency investments at the Port o f Monrovia and RIA are cntical. Failure
to address the needs o f the Port now would have far-reaching consequences on the entire
economy o f the country The Port i s the supply line o f the country both in terms o f food and fuel.
Any disruption in the services of the Port will affect the entire economy, increasing commodity
prices (especially o f rice and fuel), and jeopardizing stability Given the dilapidated condition o f
the port structures, it i s reasonable to expect system, facility or equipment failures or collapse to
occur at any given point o f time. The great urgency o f refurbishment and repair at the airport
stems from the fact that safety standards are so heavily compromised that employee and
passenger health i s jeopardized. The Bank's funds will therefore have enormous and immediate
impact and will help prevent further social and economic destruction.

41.      Given the Bank's comparative advantage inthe infrastructure sectors and the fact that no
other major donor has immediate plans to invest significant funds in the repair o f the port and
airport, the Bank's involvement becomes compelling.

A.3      HigherLevelObjectivesto which the ProjectContributes

42.      The strategic goal for Bank engagement i s to assist in the process o f peaceful economic
recovery, to which this project contributes by rebuilding shattered infrastructure in two high
pnority sub-sectors. Improved safety o f operations and refurbished facilities at the Port o f
Monrovia and Roberts International Airport will safeguard peace and order, and assist in
attracting pnvate operators for business. In fact, being two o f the revenue-generating agencies in
Libena, the SOEs have the potential to advance their financial position and attract pnvate sector
involvement should their technical and commercial performance improve.



B.       PROJECTDESCRIPTION

B.l      Grant Instrument

43.      The instrument for the Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project (LIRF') i s a Trust FundGrant.

B.2      ProjectDevelopmentObjectiveandKeyIndicators

44.      The project development objective i s to provlde Government with emergency support to
restore pnonty infrastructure in the Port o f Monrovla and at Roberts International Airport and
assist the Government in developing a medium-term strategic framework for rehabilitating the
port and avlation sectors.

45.      Successful implementation o f the project will be evidenced by.


         0   Identified civil works implemented

         0   Institutional capacity strengthened

         0   Government has developed a strategic framework for port and aviation sector

B.3      ProjectComponents

46.      The Grant o f US$8.5 million will start addressing the priontized emergency works and
activities in the Port o f Monrovia and at RIA, and provide targeted support to Government in



                                                   8

achiewng basic organizational capacity for efficient management o f the respective sectors. The
project also aims during the relatively short implementation penod, to support the Government in
formulating a strategic framework for the sectors. Implementationpenodi s 4 years.

47       The port works were selected following presentation to NPA o f the findings and
recommendations o f a technical report and later at a workshop with stakeholders. The guiding
principle for the selection was that: (i) would be able to call at the port under minimal
                                             ships
conditions o f safety; and (ii)  major commodities required by the country (food and fuel) can
continue to be handled. Complementing the actiwties financed under the Grant, the Government
i s under its own funding addressing required investment for provision o f marine semces and is,
with support o f the Bank, prepanng for pnvate sector concession o f handling, storage and
receipddelivery NPA i s also undertalung actions to install minimal safety and secunty standards.

48.      Cost estimates for civil works at the port were formulated and presented as low and high
range on the basis o f Rough-Order-Magnitude (ROM) wth detailed designs to be prepared by
contractors. The three cost estimates for port works presentedbelow are the average cost estimate
for each. As this results in a high degree o f uncertainty, it can only be determined during
procurement for the works whether the Grant i s actually sufficient for all activities and, if not,
what specific scaling-down i s needed. InAnnex 5, under discussion on project implementation, a
basic approach to do this i s identified. Conversely, if bids are lower than expected, it may offer
the opportunity o f including the second highest priority o f needs at RIA (bid package 2
description inAnnex 3).

(i) InfrastructureRehabilitation(US$7 70 million).

Monrovia Port: Dredging (US$2.20 million).

49       From a navigational safety point o f wew it i s necessary to maintain an entrance channel
width o f 150meters with an 11meter draft. Basedonbathymetric survey results, this requirement
i s not met by far as the channel width i s less than 100 meters at that draft. The dredging quantities
associated wth this navigational requirement are in the order o f 500,000 m3,including dredging
o f part o f the port basin. As any obstruction o f the entrance channel due to stranding o f a vessel
might directly impact the supply line o f Libena, dredging operations were given the highest
priority

Monrovia Port: Upgrading Oil Jetty (US$2.75 million).

50.      The refined products jetty, which i s the only functioning one in the country, has
technically detenorated to a degree that it forms a severe nsk to the country's fuel supply
Furthermoreno fire fighting installation on the refined products jetty is available, increasing nsks
even further. Within the Port o f Monrovia there are no fire fighting alternatives.

5 1.     The oil jetty will be structurally upgraded, pipes replaced (until landfall) and adequate
safety measures introduced. There i s an informal agreement with the Libena Petroleum and
Refinery Corporation (LPRC) to replace the oil pipes fi-om jetty landfall to their tank farm and to
co-ordinate these works with those o fthe jetty

52.      Collapse o f the jetty would place the country's fuel supply in great danger and a
disrupted fuel supply would among other things, stop food supply and distribution, UNMIL
actiwties, power generation and water supply

Monrovia Port: Prowding Fire FightingCauacitv at NPA Yard (US$2.15 million).


                                                    9

53.      The chances o f fire in the port are relatively high.The effects o f a large scale fire in the
port would be disastrous to the country's food supply and export. At the moment there i s no fire
engine inthe port, the fire hydrant system i s not functioning, there i s no water supply and there i s
no trainedNPA fire bngade.

54.      Itis therefore o f great importance that minimallythe fire water supply system to the NPA
yard i s made functional again and the NPA fire brigade adequately equipped and trained.

55.      The works will provlde for the design, supply, delivery, handling, installation,
commissioning, testing and setting to works o f needed equipment for acceptable firefighting
capabilities at NPAyard.

Roberts International Airport: Navlgational, aeronautical, meteorological and security equipment
(US$0.60 million).

56.      This activity addresses the first priority interventionat RIA with provision for supply and
installation o f various navigational, aeronautical, meteorological and security equipment,
including earthing and lightingprotection system, runway and taxiway edge lighting, provision
for calibrating, and aeronautical and meteorologicalequipment.

(ii)TechnicalAssistanceandCapacityBuilding(US$O. 15million).

57       Provision o f selective and ad-hoc technical assistance to Government, including support
to develop a strategic framework for the sub-sectors, as well as targeted training inNPA and RIA
to complement normalization o f operations. The project will assist NFA in bringing about a
container terminalhandling concession and will support NPA for tendenng a marine or towage
service contract ifrequired.

(iii) ProjectManagement(US$0.65 million).

58.      Overall implementation responsibility will be by the Ministry o f Public Works through a
Special Implementation Unit (SIU) which has been set up to provide coordination, procurement,
M&Eand support to safeguardmanagement. FinancialManagement will be underthe auspices o f
the Ministry o f Finance, through a Project Financial Management Unit (PFMU), also in the
process o f being set up. These arrangements are arranged jointly with a separate project, the
Emergency Infrastructure Project (EIP), which will be implemented in parallel with this Project.
The SIU and PFMU are staffed with a combination o f competent MPW and M o F staff and
selected technical assistance.

59       Inadditionto the core fiduciary competencies, the SIU for the purpose ofthisProjectwill
be strengthened with a port engineer and an envlronmental engineer on retainer, as well as other
specialist support as may becomeneeded.

B.4      Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design

60.      The TFLIB-funded technical assessments underpinning the project have been carned out
during the transitional penod that followed the armed conflict. Most development assistance
duringthis penodwas designed to allow employment o f low-skilled ex-combatants and Internally
Displaced Persons (IDPs) with the objective to preserve stability by keeping former fighters away
from their fighting routine. By the same token, longer-tern sector reforms which would have
inevitably involved down-sizing o f the SOEs, were left outside o f the immediate development
agenda. Following the end o f the transitional penod, the new Government has inherited SOEs


                                                   10

with outdated policies and no sector vision, strategy, or plan. As Libena graduates from non-
accrual status to a full IDA client and resources from IFIs start to flow, sector strategies would
become a prerequisite for donors' assistance. As development focus gradually shifts from
preserving stability and ensunng that humanitanan needs are met to supporting sustainable
development, medium and longer-term vision and corresponding plans would have to be
developed.

61.      This project incorporates the lessons learned by engaging the Government in a sector
policy dialogue (TA component). The objective i s to initiate a longer-termprocess o f deciding on
policy choices for the sector to be made after reviewing the institutional framework, supporting
legal instruments, sources o f funding for capital investments and financing o f recurrent costs. The
project also draws on lessons learned in recent post-conflict countnes that harnessing and
developing a concentration o f implementation competencies through a consolidated PMU for
multiple projects can be highly effective.

B.5      AlternativesConsideredandReasonsfor Rejection

62.      Initially, the project team considered third-party execution by UNOPS. However, as the
project preparation evolved, the team decided to utilize the emerging capacity at the MPW and
create synergy and economies o f scale through the joint use o f S I U and PFMU by EIP and this
Project, thus reducing project implementation cost (estimated at US$1.2 million if implemented
by UNOPS and US$0.65 million with described arrangements). The added advantage o f national
staff retaining skills developed throughout the project implementation further outweighed
implementation by United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS).



C.       IMPLEMENTATION

C.l      PartnershipArrangements

63.      As described prewously, there is close collaboration among the international
development partners inLiberia and with the Government. Principal donor coordination will take
place through the Liberia Reconstruction and Development Committee (LRDC), the body created
by Government and chaired by the President, to strategize, develop, coordinate and monitor the
implementation o f a results-based national development program.

64.      As it relates to the port and awation sub-sectors, USAID is financing support with
financial controllers for selected revenue earning state owned enterpnses, including NPA and
Roberts International Airport Authority (RIAA). For NPA, a port operations specialist consultant
i s also provided. The consultants are collaborating closely with LIRP and the Bank, which i s
leading support and reform o f these sub-sectors.

C.2      InstitutionalandImplementationArrangements

65.      Both infrastructure projects, the EIP in implementation and LIRP, will be implemented
jointly with the arrangements agreed on for the former (EIP), which has been set up within the
MinistryofPublic Works andMinistryofFinance withthe establishment o f SIUandPFMU

66.      MPW will implement the Project through a Special Implementation Unit (SIU) staffed
with a combination o f competent M P W staff and selected technical assistance. The SIU, managed



                                                 11

by a competent full-time project coordinator (a high level senior officer now appointed), will
include as key staff engineers, a Transport Economist, a Financial Management Specialist,
Procurement Specialist and an Enwronmental Expert. The S I U has the appropriate skills mix,
including technical, project management, fiduciary as well as environmental and safeguard skills
to carry out its functions. In particular, the S I U will be responsible for: a) assuring steady
progress o f the procurement in accordance with an implementation schedule reviewed and
approved by the World Bank; b) ensuring satisfactory implementation o f activities included in all
contracts; c) ensuring that a high ethical standard and transparency i s maintained throughout the
entire project implementation; and d) monitoring and evaluating performance indicators and
results. The S I U will have basic financial management capacity to support the requirements o f the
PFMUthat will be responsible for all financial management tasks.

67       MOF will be responsible through the Project Financial Management Unit for financial
management, disbursement and related reporting. The PFMU will have a unit manager with
international accounting qualifications acceptable to the Bank, project accountant and an internal
auditor.

68.      For the purposes of this project, an internationally recruited port engineer and an
environmentalengineer will be engaged on retainer basis.

69       To ensure appropriate collaboration among the institutions engaged, appraisal o f the
project agreed with Government the steenng group arrangements that will ensure that any policy
or strategic discussion related to the project receives the needed stakeholder inputs.

C.3      MonitoringandEvaluationof Outcomes/Results

70.      The S I U will be responsible for reporting on the results framework.

C.4      Sustainability

71.      Beyond the affected infrastructure, which durability should be ensured in the medium
term, the project design i s not aimed at achieving a sustainable transformation o f the port and
aviation sub-sectors. Rather it aims at rehabilitating a handful o f pnontized emergency works to
prevent collapse o f specific semces at these infrastructure nodes.

72.      Nonetheless, it i s expected that the targeted technical assistance that will be provided and
the policy dialogue the Bank will engage in wth the Government dunng the implementation o f
this Grant, will result in a strategic framework and common understanding for the sub-sectors,
which inturn may become the foundation for institutional reform and operational sustainability




                                                   12

Risk                                        RiskMitigation Measures             Risk Rating with
                                                                                Mitigation
Toproject development
objective

Collapse o f dilapidated         Bid document preparation for some of the                 H
infrastructure inthe port and    most urgent infrastructure rehabilitation or
alrport not subject to LIRP      construction, which the Government can use
funding causes operational       to solicit funds
shut-down
                                                                                          M
Strategic Development            TA support onthis policy development will be
Framework for port and           provided and the Bank will work through the
aviation sectors not             LRDC to ensure this action receives the
developed                        lughest attention

To component results
                                                                                          H
LimitedGovernment                LIRPwill be implementedby a unit inMPW,
experience and capacity to       staffed with local specialists and supported by
prepare and manage the           mtemational experts. Intensive supervision of
Project                          3-4 mssions per year
                                                                                          H
Cost estimates may be too        Regional advertismg for works may elicit
optimstic andor private          interest o f foreign companies acquamted with
sector mterest incivil works     the region. Possible bundling of firefighting
limted except at high            and oiljetty contracts mone bid
premum
                                                                                          M
Government does not follow       Bank will work through the LRDC to ensure
through on bringing about a      tlus action receives the hlghest attention
Container T e m n a l Contract

Labor resistance                 Sensitize Government and managements of                  M
                                 NPA and RIA o f the importance o f labor
                                 relations and communication
Overall ksk Rating                                                                         H
H=High; M=Medium

C.6      Grant ConditionsandCovenants

73.      The project has the following conditions o f effectiveness:

              The S I U has been established under terms o f reference acceptable to the Bank and
              the Project Coordinator and the procurement specialist appointed, under terms o f
              reference and with qualifications and expenence acceptable to the Bank, from either
              existing staff of the Recipient or recruited under the Bank's Procurement Guidelines;
              and
              The PFMU has been established under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and
              an accountant appointed, under terms o f reference and with qualifications and
              expenence that are acceptable to the Bank, from either existing staff o f the Recipient
              or recruited under the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.



                                                      13

74.      The project has the following conditions o f disbursement:

             UntilGovernment fully establishes boththe SIUandthe PFMUitwould have access
             to US$500,000 o f the grant only Government will achieve this by appointing the
             following staff to the SIU; a procurement specialist and environmental specialist, and
             to the PFMU; unit manager and an internal auditor. These staff shall all have
             qualifications and expenence acceptable to the Bank
             No withdrawal shallbe made for payments made prior to the date o f the project Grant
             Agreement being signed

75.      The Grant will be subject to following covenants:

         0   The Government with support from the Bank will tender through a competitive and
             transparent process a Container Terminal Contract in the Port o f Monrovia no later
             than by end o f April 2007

         0   The Government will ensure that RIA carries 3rd party liability/aircraft insurance.
             Procurement for the benefit o f RIAA i s contingent on this insurance being inplace.



D.       APPRAISAL SUMMARY

D.l      Economicand FinancialAnalyses

76.      Inpreparationfor the LIRP,studies were undertaken for the port and airport (as well as
roads, telecom, power, water and sewage -not subject to direct investment support under planned
LIRP) with the aim of identifying emergency works and actions, pnontized under acceptable
approach, to bringthe operations to acceptable levels.

77       port.For identifying prioritized order o f works and actions for investments in seaports,
the traditional method i s use o f a multi-criteria-analysis applied and leading to decisions based on
the added value o f a certain measure to safety and efficiency o f port operations based on a variety
o f cntena and weighing factors.

78.      The extreme situation in the Port o f Monrovia necessitates a different approach to
prioritization. The risk o f not implementing a particular measure to port operations and more
broadly the supply line/economic life line o f Liberia is used as guideline for priontizing the
emergency works.

79       Technical assessment o f the port resulted in a long list o f 25 works and activities to be
undertaken utilized the following categonzation and characteristics to priontize these.

80.      Based on the categonzation, a priontized short list o f 8 works and activities was selected.
NPA has confirmed both the identified long and short list as basis for support. The table below
shows the short list and notes the status or actions o f each activity




                                                    14

                                                                                                                                                    Characteristics




                                                                                                                                                    Works essential for safety of port workers andfor maintaining/ assuringcurrent
                                                                                                                                                    level of port activity.

                                                                                                                                                    Works essentialfor improving port effectivenessand efficiency.


                                                                          Medium                                                                    Works strongly advisablefor improving port effectivenessandefficiency.


                                                                                   Low                                                              Works desirablefor improving port effectivenessandefficiency.



                                             PriorityEmergencyWorks                                                                                                                                                                Category                                                                                                                         Note



................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................+
      1                                                                                         Dredging                                                                                                                            critical                                                                           " .............................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LIRPfunded
...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
     2                                       Tugboat overhauYmarine service                                                                                                                                                         critica1   ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NPA mtendsto procure a tug3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~




..............................................................................................................................................
     3                                                                   Upgrading Oil Jetty                                                                                                                                        critical                                                                                                   LIRPfunded
                               Providing fire fightmg capacity at NPA
     4                                                                                                     Yard............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    critical                                                                                                   LIRPfunded
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                " ........... ........................................................
                              Marklng unsafe areas on deck Margmal
................................................................................................................................................................................................................................"...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
     5                                                                                                   Quay                                                                                                                       hghest                                                                                                         NPA Action
                           Demolition and ReconstructionMarginal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Not addresseddue to current
................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................S
     6                                                                                                 Wharf                                                                                                                        highest                                                                                  unavailability o f fund
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NPAImmediate Action many o f                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             proposed actions canbe implemented
....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
     7                                                                                  Port Security                                                                                                                                     ha!! .........................................................................................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      with limited funds
                                              Improvement container handling                                                                                                                                                                                                           Capitalcost avoidedwith WB support
                             equipment, container yard and contamer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          inbringing about Container
      8                                                                                       operations                                                                                                                                  high                                                                                                      Concession


81.                                   With a combination o f NPA actions and support from the project, seven o f the eight
shortlisted priorities are being addressed.

82.                                   Priorities 1, 3 and 4 will benefit from LIRF' investment funds. In order to maximize
impact o f investment funds, it i s agreed that container concession (inherent in pnonty 8) be
granted for short term period. NPA on its own account and initiative has implemented priority 5
and will advance on pnonty 7 Onprionty 2, NPA i s inthe process o f procmng a tug.

83.                                   The most expensive investment, demolition and reconstruction of Marginal Wharf
(identified as prionty 6), i s estimated to cost U S 2 0 million, and will need to be addressed



3   NPA is inthe process o fprocuring a tug. However, at Governmentrequest, LIRPcan assist inpreparing
tender documents and streamlined tender process for bringing about a Towage or Marine Service Contract
iftugprocurement provesto beunsuccessful.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   15

through other means. Should the possibility o f US-funded investments at the port materialize, the
team would advise the U S partners that repairs at the Marginal Wharf are considered first.

84.       Airport. The United Nations ICAO (International Civil Aviation Organization) developed
the principles and techniques o f international air navlgation and promotes the planning and
development o f international air transport (non-military avlation, both pnvate and commercial) to
ensure safe and orderly growth o f airports. It provldes standards and recommended practices,
amongst others, for safety, secunty and operational procedures, and for airport planning and
designing. Compliance with ICAO standards i s therefore the international benchmark for three
basic requirements: (i)     safety; (ii) and (iii) and passenger handling.
                                       secunty          aircraft

85.       On the basis o f ICAO, RIA emergency needs were assessed and pnontized following
order based on interventions needed to reinstate safe and efficient operation at the RIA in short-
and medium-term. These are: (i)        air safety; (ii)
                                                      ground safety; (iii) pavement conditions;
                                                                          airside
(iv) secunty; (v) airside operations; (vi) terminal building area and landside facilities; (vii)
utilities; and (viii) envlronmental conditions.



          Priority EmergencyWorks                                                  Note


       Supplyand installationofnavigational        air safety/
 1    equipment, etc                              groundsafety                LIRPfunded
      RefurbishmentofRIA R&FFtrucks,                              Firstchoicefor financingifbidsavings
 2     ambulance, etc                             groundsafety       realizedinagreedLIRP package
       Supplyof matenalsfor airside andrepairs                  Not addresseddue to current unavailabilityof
 3     airportbuildings                             temnal                        funds
       Supplyandmaintenanceof airport                           Not addresseddue to current unavailabilityof
 4     equipment                                    landside                      funds
                                                                Not addresseddue to current unavailabilityof
 5    Improvementsofutilities                       landside                      funds



86.       Only the first pnonty identified will be funded by LIRP However, draft bidding
packages for the remaining emergency works have been developed and will be shared with
donors for consideration and funding.

D.2       Technical

87        Technical review o f the port works to be finded will take place during implementation,
as these will be procured on the basis o f design-installhonstruct. Technical assessment o f each o f
the pnontized port works has been undertaken and solutions proposed. As the technical studies
solely identified works and activities and bidding documents will include design o f the needed
works, costing for these were for the most part based on Rough-Order-Magnitude (ROM)
approach which has relatively large margin o f error (approximately 30-35%).

88.       Dredging. The port's access channel i s silting up, especially at the south side o f the
entrance channel. Inthe past a number o f bathymetric surveys were carried out, which showed a
swift decrease o f the width and depth o f the channel. Because o f conflicting survey results a new
bathymetric survey was executed to also be used to determine the dredging requirements. The
new survey data showed that more sediment had settled around the entrance area at the south side
compared to the earlier survey plots. As a result the minimum width o f the entrance channel at




                                                     16

Chart Datum4or CD -10m i s approximately 80m. From the entrance o f the port to the basin the
channel i s approximately 850m long with an average width o f approximately lOOm at CD -10m.
Directly at the seaward end o f the marginal wharf shallow spots were observed up to CD -7Sm
(possibly due to debris on the seabed floor).

89       The scope and draft for dredging proposed i s needed for the safe entry and maneuvering
o f vessels o f the size calling on Monrovia.

90.      Oil iethr was assessed through an above-water vlsual inspection and underwater detailed
inspection. Main items included condition investigation o f alignment, steel thickness, corrosion,
structural damage of: (i)     trestles; (ii)
                                           dolphins; (iii)unloading platform; and (iv) inspection o f
safety and envlronmentalconditions.

91.      As a result o f the inspections it is identified that for access trestle upper part o f
foundations piles need to be cut and replaced and gratings, lightings and handrails replaced. The
deck and upper part o f off-load platform structure needs to be replaced, fire fighting installed and
fenders reinstated. Decks and bollards on dolphins need replacing and some dolphins need
replacement and others refurbishment. Also a catwalk from off-load platform to all dolphins need
to be constructed. Structure stands without corrosion protection and emergency repairs are
needed. All oil pipelines needreplacing.

92.      Firefiahtinq. Assessment o f the fire fighting facilities was undertaken in the oil jetty and
the yard area, where the current port activities are concentrated. The operational functionality o f
the existing fire protection installations i s non-existing. A fire fighting team i s based close to site,
but is laclung inall important fire fighting equipment. Back-up from outside is limited to a fire
engine o f the neighbonng LPRC. There i s no municipal fire bngade inMonrovla and the nearest
other functioning fire brigade i s at the airport.

93.      Sea water fire protection system will provide for the main storage areas, berth areas and
marine structures, supply mains to the existing buildings and connections to the fire fighting
facilities on the oil jetty This will include the provision o f a salt water fire pump-house,
distribution pipeline network and appliances.

94.      Navigational. aeronautical, meteorological and secuntv eauipment. An in-depth study of
existing safety and security equipment at RIA was undertaken. The recommendation acquisition
and installing of various navigational, aeronautical, meteorological and secunty equipment was
based on examination o f operational reliability o f the equipment and determination on what was
neededto bringthese up to ICAO standards.

D.3      Fiduciary

95.      Given the urgent nature o f the project and the need to start construction works as soon as
feasible, some preliminary procurement steps will commence prior to the planned approval of the
proposed Project. MPW has limited capacity to undertake these initial tasks, but will be supported
by IDA inthe initial process.

96.      The S I U and PFMU will be staffed with a combination of competent MPW and M o F
staff and selected technical assistance in the areas o f procurement and financial management and
supervised or managed by a competent full-time manager (a high level senior officer now
appointed) no later than effectiveness. These entities will be responsible for: (a) assmng steady

4ChartDatumor CD refers to depth relative to tide levels (Mean Low Water Sprmg Tide)


                                                   17

progress o f the procurement in accordance with an implementation schedule reviewed and
approved by the World Bank; (b) ensuring satisfactory implementation o f activities included in
all contracts; (c) ensunng that financial and accounting records are maintained to a satisfactory
manner; and (d) ensuring that financial statements and reports are prepared intimely manner for
management and audit purposes.

D.4      Social

97       As pointed out in the preliminary environmental assessment (pEIA) contained in the
Technical Assessment for the port, the proposed emergency works would have substantial
positive social impacts. Physical improvement inworkplace conditions will lead to better worker
health and quality o f life, and fewer accidents. The works themselves will provide temporary
employment for skilled and unskilled workers. As the port returns to pre-conflict efficiency,
employment at the port may increase, and both new business and existing business expansion can
be expected in the vicinity, particularly in services that cater to the shipping industry Thus the
port improvements should stimulate further economic development. The main negative impact to
be anticipated i s temporary disruption o f economic and social activities around the port as a result
o f deliveries o f materials and equipment and removal o f waste materials. Another possible
adverse impact i s negative interaction between "imported" workers and local populations,
including conflict over employment opportunities and sexually-transmitted diseases.

D.5      Environmental

98.      The project will provide substantial positive environmental impacts. At the airport,
refurbishment and replacement o f equipment for navigation, safety and secunty will have a
positive impact on safety for the airport workforce, airline personnel, passengers, and nearby
residents. Within the port, the works to improve access to the harbor, refurbish the oiljetty, install
modem fire-fighting   systems, and reorganize and re-equip the container handling yard will all
contribute to reduced nsk o f accidents (including ship groundings) and spills, quick response to
potential environmental catastrophes such as oil fires. An overall improvement in housekeeping
and waste management i s likely to follow the specific renovations and repairs.

99      No adverse impacts are anticipated from the investments to be supported at the airport.
The pEIA included in the Technical Assessment for the port has identified potential adverse
impacts and categorized them as minor, moderate, and major, based on magnitude, probability o f
occurrence, and sensitiwty o f receptor or affected area. A general mitigation plan (EMP) i s
included inthe assessment, and the impacts are re-rated assuming EMP implementation. The only
major impact that remained after that analysis was conversion o f land for dredge spoil disposal, if
a land-based disposal method were to be chosen. Since the analysis o f sediments in the harbor
confirms that they are not hazardous and are thus suitable for disposal at sea, sea disposal has
been selected and this major impact will be eliminated. The choice o f location for sea disposal
must take into account the charactenstics o f the marine environment-current, depth, presence o f
sensitive features such as coral reefs and sea grass beds, existence o f shellfish beds, recreational
uses and fishenes. In other words, a more detailed environmental assessment that focuses on
selection o f an appropnate spoil disposal site and method and that includes a site-specific EMP
needs to be prepared, subjected to stakeholder consultation, and disclosed.

100.    Impacts predicted to remain as moderate after EMP implementation were solid waste
disposal, disturbance o f surrounding commercial activities, water pollutlon due to fuel spills and
turbidity from dredging or soil erosion, and occupational health and safety hazards to the
workforce. All o f these can be managed through conditions in the contracts for works and
supervision by an environmentalengineer.


                                                 18

 D.6       Safeguard Policies

Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                          Yes                   No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                             [XI                    [I
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                         11                   [XI
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                             [ I                  [XI
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                  [ I                  [XI
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                               [ I                  [XI
InvoluntaryResettlement (OPBP 4.12)                                                   [ I                  [XI
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                                [ I                  [XI
Safety o f Dams (OPBP 4.37)                                                           [ I                  [XI
International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.60)                                               [I                   [XI
Projects inDisputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                            [ I                  [XI

 101.     This project is in Category B for enwronmental assessment. The pEIA with its general
 EMP has been prepared and disclosed. It recommends a more detailed impact assessment for
 dredge spoil disposal pnor to selection o f a disposal site and method. This assessment should be
 rewewed and disclosed by the Bank and the Government.

 102.      Inits section on institutional responsibilities, the pEIA defines roles for EPA, NPA and,
 most important, for an international environmental supervising engineer to assist NPA in
 overseeing the implementation o f impact management and monitonng measures. The pEIA
 specifies that all contractors should be required to prepare, obtain approval for, and implement
 health, safety, environmental and social management plans (HSES-MP) for their respective
 activities. Each HSES-MP should elaborate on the general mitigation measures identified in the
 pEIA as befits the particular activities covered by the contract. Each HSES-EMP should also
 contain the necessary measures to implement general and specific conditions o f contract such as
 proper notification to surrounding businesses o f scheduled disruptions intraffic or utility service
 and maintenance o f a contact point for community complaints and questions. The HSES-MP for
 dredging and spoil disposal would be the most detailed and would be based on the detailed EA
 for that activity To maximize social benefits and avoid negative social impacts, contractors
 should be asked to commit to achieving specific targets, as generous as possible, for local hiring
 and to managing interaction between their workforces and the general public. The pEIA places
 the estimated cost for implementation o f impact mitigation and monitonng measures dunng the
 project at US$195,000. The projected cost for prowding NFA with adequate environmental
 management capacity, through staff training supplemented by engagement o f an enwronmental
 supemsing engineer i s an additional US$190,000. These costs, some o f which will be borne by
 NPA and some by contractors, are incorporated in the project budget. The pEIA also provides
 estimates o f environmental management costs duringproject operation and decommissioning, for
 use by NPA inplanning and budgeting. See Annex 8 for more details on the pEIA.

 D.7      Policy Exceptions and Readiness

 103.     While this Grant i s prepared in the spint o f OP 8.50, it has benefited from in-depth
 technical studies and i s largely ready for implementation. As the financial systems o f the PFMU
 will not be fully set-up by effectiveness, formats of intenm un-audited statements (IFRs) will
 only be agreed on within two months o f Effectiveness. The sole safeguard issue o f concern,

 *By supporting theproposed project, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties'
 claims on the disputed areas



                                                        19

location of sea disposal of dredged material has mostly been addressed, although final and
detailed environmental assessment study will be done by contractor and subjected to approval by
the Liberian Environmental Protection Agency Following revlew and approval of the assessment
bythe Government and the Bankrespectively, it will be disclosed incountry and internationally




                                             20

                          Annex 1:Country andSector Background
            LIBERIAINFRASTRUCTUREREHABILITATIONPROJECT


1.       Country and Sector Background

1.       Following the end o f the 15-year long war inLiberia in2003, the Country Reengagement
Note (CRN) was endorsedby the Board o f Executive Directors on March9,2004. Since that time
the Bank has been implementing CRN's approved activities, financed by the Trust Fund for
Libena (TFLIB) and a L o w Income Country under Stress (LICUS) grant, in three key areas:
economic management, community-driven development, and infrastructure.

2.       This PAD builds on the work carned out under the Infrastructure Rehabilitation TA
Project financed by TFLIB, which identified cntical emergency works in the transport sector in
the amount exceeding US$70 million. The proposed activities under this PAD include only the
most critical emergency works in the port and airport sub-sectors in the amount o f US$8.5
million. Another project inthe roads sub-sector was approved in June 2006 funded by a pre-IDA
clearance grant in the amount o f US$30.0 million. It i s expected that other partners will come
together to provide financing for the remaining prionty infrastructure needs. To this end, an
international Partners' Forum will take place in February 2007 to discuss Government's
development strategy and to explore possibilities for new donor flows to support Government's
priorities.

2.       CountryIssues

3.       Libena i s undergoing profound changes, A country long known for corruption and
exploitation o f the population by a minonty, descended into a war in the 1980s known for its
brutality against civilians. N o w three years past the end o f a 15-year long civil war, Libena faces
incredible difficulties as it begins the long process o f reconstruction. The Comprehensive Peace
Agreement (CPA) signed in Accra, Ghana in 2003 along with UN Secunty Council Resolutions
1509 and 1521 ushered in a 2-year transitional period which has produced uneven results.
However, the transitional period ended with the successful October-November 2005 elections in
which a clear majonty o f the electorate gave the new administration headed by Ellen Johnson-
Sirleaf a strong mandate for change. Capitalizing on this mandate, the administration embarked
on an ambitious 150-day reform program which included movlng forward on long-delayed basic
semces and infrastructure reforms, which i s now being further expanded under an I-PRSP This
has provlded the Bank a unique opportunity to work jointly with a reformist Government in
critical areas, as covered throughout this document. Today, Liberia i s beginning a new phase in
its history and the prospects for lastingpeace are now better than they have been for years.

2.1      The TransitionPeriod (2003-2005)

4.       Following the signing o f the CPA, the National Transitional Government o f Libena
(NTGL) was established to administer the penod o f transition to peace, prepare and carry out
elections to result in a new democratic Government in office. To facilitate the transition, the
UnitedNations Mission in Libena (UNMIL)was established. Its military and civil personnel o f
over 15,000 have a mandate to support the implementation o f the peace process and foster
development.

5.       InDecember 2003, the UNDP and the World Bank undertookajoint mission to conduct
a needs assessment for Liberia. This led to the acceptance o f a Results Focused Transitional



                                                  21

Framework (RFTF) that defined the most urgent activities to be undertaken to, amongst others,
reinstate infrastructure and social services. The RFTF was adopted by the NTGL as its strategic
plan to guide the transitional period.

6.        In March 2004, the Bank's Executive Directors discussed a reengagement strategy for
Libena' This strategy outlined a plan for Bank re-engagement within the RFTF in three pnonty
areas: economic management, infrastructure rehabilitation, and community-based development.
The Bank's strategy envlsaged financing from both the LICUS TF and a grant from the Bank's
 surplus. Subsequently, the Boardo f Governors o fthe Bank approved the transfer from surplus to
the TFLIB o f US$25.0 million as a grant to be administered by IDA. Since then, TFLIB and
LICUS funds - US29.0 million in total, have been used to finance TA and investments in the
three pnority areas. Inaddition, a US$30 million IDA pre-arrears clearance grant was approved in
June 2006 to support the rehabilitation o f 2 major road comdors, an emergency electricity supply
program and the rehabilitation o f water in Monrovla. An additional US$16.5 million (IDA) will
 further support labor-intensive rehabilitation o frural roads and urban sanitation works.

 7        Libena had been a middle-income country before the civil war began in late 1989
Fifteen years o f brutal devastated the country's economy, its physical infrastructure, and its
human assets. In August 2003, the wamng parties ended hostilities with the signing o f the
Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) in Accra, Ghana, and a National Transitional
 Government (NGTL) was established to administer a two-year intenm period leading to national
 elections in October 2005. The UnitedNations Mission inLibena (UNMIL)was created and was
 given the mandate to support the implementation o f the peace process.

 8.       In 2003, the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and the World Bank
undertook a needs assessment for Liberia which led to the development o f a Results Focused
Transitional Framework (RFTF). The activities in the RFTF were organized by cluster, and the
Bank took the lead in the Infrastructure and Economic Management clusters. With a lead role in
Infrastructure, the bank agreed to undertake assessments o f the emergency needs on transport,
power, water, and telecommunications.

2.2       Post-elections Liberia

 9        In October-November 2005, legislative and presidential elections considered by
observers to be free, fair and transparent led to the inauguration on January 6, 2006 o f Ellen
Johnson-Sirleaf. The new administration i s assured the continued support o f the UN and other
partners in maintaining security and assisting the GOL in the restoration o f basic services,
infrastructure and good governance. However, the challenges are immense. Regional conflict,
still active in CGte d'Ivoire, continues to threaten the fragile peace across the border in Liberia as
well as in Sierra Leone. Decades o f conflict, conflict-driven migration and a hentage o f
corruption have depleted Libena's pool o f skilled human resources. Three o f the country's major
 sources o f export revenues and fiscal receipts (diamonds and forest products) continue to be
under international sanctions by the UN Secunty Council due to their past role in financing
conflict and contributing to regional instability

 10.      Limited available information suggests a modest rebound in economic activity since the
end o f the internal conflict, largely driven by donor assistance. Following a sharp decline in
economic activity in 2003, real GDP continues to recover (2.4% in 2004; projected 8.5% in
2005). However, the recovery o f agricultural activity constituting the largest pre-war export


~                 ~~




  See Liberia: Country Re-Engagement Note and Additional Activities (IDA/R2004-0046), April 2004.


                                                   22

commodity has been sporadic due to the slow return o f refugees to rural areas and largely
destroyed or non-existent infrastructure.

11.     The volatility inthe pnces for basic commodities and in the exchange rate has subsided,
following the easing o f supply constraints. Broad money has grown strongly since hostilities
ended, with a surge in bank deposits. The Central Bank's foreign reserve position has gradually
improved from very low levels. However, Libena's external public debt situation i s
unsustainable. Liberia's external debt i s currently estimated at US$3.1 billion. Liberia i s inarrears
to the Bank (US456 million), the IMF (US$750 million), and the AfDB (US$200 million).

12.     Against this background, the GOL has constituted the Libena Reconstruction and
Development Committee (LRDC) as the main body and a mechanism to strategize, develop,
coordinate and monitor the implementation o f a results-based national reconstruction and
development program. The LRDC, chaired by the President consists o f key GOL Ministers and
donors and i s organized around four pillars. These pillars include several Ministnes and are
chaired by a leading Minister and co-chaired by donors. The four pillars include: i)Security, ii)
Economic Revitalization, iii)Governance and Rule o f Law, and iv) Infrastructure and Basic
Services. The Bank i s a Co-Chair o f the Economic Rewtalization and the Infrastructure and Basic

infrastructure sectors as well as the social sectors - health and education. The Minister o f Public
Services Committees. The latter, chaired by the Minister o f Public Works, includes all

Works leads the dialogue on infrastructure development and represents basic semces, health and
education at the LRDC.

13.     The level and quality o f dialogue with the Bretton Woods Institutions (BWI) has
improved considerably over the penod following elections. The IMF initiated a Staff Monitored
Program (SMP) inApril 2006 and presented a positive rewew on progress inJune. The six-month
review will be undertaken inearly November. At the same time, the Bank continues to strengthen
its presence and actiwties in Liberia through support to economic management and community-
driven development and infrastructure. A US$30 million pre-arrears clearance grant was
approved by the Board in June 2006 and a supplemental IDA grant was approved in October
2006 - this operation finances the rehabilitation o f key roads corndors, rural roads and urban
works. Inline with these developments, the proposed Credit responds to the request o f the GOL
for emergency funds aims to reinstate critical infrastructure that was destroyed inthe war.

3.       Sector Issues

14.     The transport sector in Liberia prior to the civil war included road and railway networks,
civil aviation, and several ports. Today, the railway network does not exist, civil aviation i s
limited to Monrovia with only UN flights operating upcountry, and the Port o f Monrovia i s the
only operational port inthe country

15.     Duringthe years o f conflict, the sector was able to undertake intermittent maintenance
actiwties but no penodic maintenance. Partial rehabilitation and new construction were sporadic
and limited in scope. As a result o f the chronic undennvestment and lack o f maintenance the
rehabilitation requirements o f the sector today are enormous.

16.     The Government recognizes the urgency o f the situation and has pleaded donors'
assistance for the sector. Starting in 2005, the Bank financed the technical assessment o f the Port
of Monrovia, the Roberts International Airport in Monrovia as well as assessment o f two o f the
main road corridors in the country (Infrastructure TA, TFLIB-funded). The studies identified
emergency works and developed bidding documents that have been shared with donors. Given



                                                 23

the capital intensity o f the sector, few donors have yet pledged funds for large-scale
transportation projects.

17        The roads sub-sector i s mentioned briefly in this document as it i s subject o f a US$30.0
million IDA pre-arrears clearance grant - the Emergency Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project.
The railway sub-sector i s expected to be picked up by private investors when and if the mining

economic activities in Liberia and as such - a top Governmental pnonty In addition, marine
sector takes up again. Marine transport and civil aviation are central to sustain and expand

transport and civil aviation inknge on issues o f safety, security, and stability in a country still
charactenzed as a fragile post-conflict enwronment. These are further discussed below

3.1       Groundtransportation

18.       Railways. The railways have been non-operational for nearly 20 years. The railway
network in Libena was constructed by the mining companies to transport iron ore from the now
closed iron ore mines at Mano River (Grand Cape Mount County), Bong Town (Bong County),
and the Gahnpa-Yekepa area (Nimba County) to the ports o f Monrovia and Buchanan. The total
length o f the network was about 500 km. The last mine closed soon after the war started in 1986.
Since then tracks were left unattended.

19        Some recent developments involvlngMITTAL Steel and the potential opening o f iron ore
deposits upcountry suggest that the company may be interested in rehabilitating the Yekepe-
Buchanan-link and also inthe revitalizing the facilities at the port o f Buchanan.

20.       Roads. The Government has identified the need for efficient road connections between
Monrovia and the rest o f the country as central to achieving its reconstruction msion. The Bank
has been responsive to this GOL's prionty and i s currently prepanng an emergency project aimed
to rehabilitate two main road corridors: Monrowa-Buchanan and Monrovia-Ganta. These actions
will help revive the economy and reintegrate the country by restonng vital transport links
throughout the country

3.2       Maritimesub-sector

21.       Libena has five ports, including Monrovia, Buchanan, Greenville, Harper and
Robertsport. Before the war these ports handled about 200,000 tons o f general cargo and around
400,000 tons o fpetroleum products per year. Inaddition, Monrovia and Buchananhandled all the
bulk iron ore exports, and Buchanan and Greenville were responsible for most o f the timber
exports.

22.       Civil war and international sanctions severely disrupted port operations while extensive
looting rendered most o f the facilities useless. Today, nearly 100% o f the dry-bulkand containers
trade i s being handled through the Port o f Monrovia. Inaddition, its fuel jetty i s responsible for

shipment activities betweenMonrovia and the four smaller ports - negligible.
100% o f fuel (diesel and kerosene) imports. The other ports are barely operational with trans-


23.       Given the above volumes, the Port of Monrovia i s the supply line/economic life-line o f
Libena, responsible for nearly all imports and exports from the country A large exporter o f
timber, rubber, iron ore, and agricultural products in the past, Liberia's economy today i s mostly
import-based. The pnmary food for the population i s imported nce. Its price, as well as that o f
fuel, i s directly correlated to port accessibility and efficiency The availability and price-stability
o f imported commodities infringes on stability ina country where fluctuation o frice-pnces fueled
two o f the civil wars. Unsurpnsingly, the needs assessment for Libena, developed jointly by


                                                    24

UNDP and the World Bank prioritized the reinstatement o f operations inthe Port o f Monrovia as
a most critical activity inthe sector.

24,      Physical infrastructure at the port i s in a generally deplorable state. Collapse o f critical
infrastructure and superstructure o f the port i s imminent. The physical layout o f the port i s
unsuitable for modem port operations. These operations are further hampered by the
unavailability o f equipment, inboth number and quality, and the general lack o f maintenance of
said equipment. The organization i s far from efficient and i s not productively organized, but a
newly appointed ManagingDirector is intent onimprovlngNPAperformance.

25.      Inpreparation of the proposed project and as part of the TFLIB-supported Infrastructure
TA, the Bank financed the technical assessment o f the Port o f Monrovla with the aim of
identifying emergency works and actions to bringoperations to acceptable levels. The assessment
concluded that immediate intervention i s needed to rehabilitate the infrastructure in order to keep
the Port operational. Identified emergency works are inthe range o f US$40 million, o f which this
project proposes to support critical repairs costed at about US$7.0 million. A longer-term Port
Master Plan including an assessment o f the different management options to support long term
sustainability has been developed for review and discussionwith the Government.

26.      InApril 2005, UNMILsecured the port and since then is responsible for the providing
on-site secunty Today security at the port i s providedjointlyby UNMILand the Libena National
Police (LNP).

3.3      CivilAviation

27       Roberts International Airport (RIA), about 45 km outside Monrovia, i s the only
international airport inthe country and the only airport open for fixed wing traffic. James Spriggs
Payne located within Monrovia's city boundanes as well as several other functioning airports are
operated by and used only for UN flights to transport UN personnel and equipment. All other
domestic civil aviation ceased dunngthe years o f stnfe.

28.      Before the war, Libena had one operational international airline, Libena Airways.
However, it has since been closed and its assets sold off. At present, air traffic i s sparse with only
one international airline and three infrequent West Afhcan carriers servicing Libena.

29       Duringthe war penod the airport suffered severe damage to the point that operations had
to be suspended for several years. The runway became inoperable due to craters and other
damage as a result o f bombings. The terminal building was burned down. From 1998 to 2002
rehabilitation works were undertaken under a grant donated by the Republic o f China or Taiwan
in which the runway pavement surface was repaired, new navigational equipment installed and
three fire trucks were delivered.

30.      In2003 followingthe CPA, UNMILsecuredRIAandstationed a large troop contingent
at the airport premises. Today, security at RIA continues to be the full responsibility o f UNMIL.
A Standard OperatingProcedures (SOP) document for RIAwas draftedby UNMILand approved
in 2004. Throughout this period, UNMIL has been implementing limited maintenance and
rehabilitation works at the airport.

31.      In 2005, the Bank financed from TFLIB the technical assessment o f RIA. It identified
emergency works needed to ensure safety of airport operations for US$3.6 million (for works and
goods, excluding supervision services cost, which i s estimated for another US$0.4 million). Of
these, the most cntical portion costed at US$0.6 million i s proposed for funding under this


                                                  25

project. A longer-term Master Plan for the development o f RIA, including institutional changes
has been developed and submitted to the GOL for review and discussion.

3.4      InstitutionalFramework

32.      The Ministryo f Transport is responsible for developingpolicy directions for the transport
sector and as such i s responsible for the maritime and aviation sub-sectors as well. Currently, the
Ministryhas little capacity to implement this responsibility Dunngthe war the Ministrylost its
data and documentation to perform its duties. Its offices have been completely looted and there i s
no equipment left. The Ministry i s indire need o f all lundof basic office equipment, vehicles, and
training for its staff.

33.      Presently, there i s no National Transportation Plan or other holistic strategy for the
development o f the sector. While not-envisaged in the proposed emergency project, technical
assistance for a longer-term institutional reform o f the transport sector i s much needed.

34.      During the transitional period, the NTGL and the transitional management o f NPA,
reviewed the structure o f the port and adopted in pnnciple the notion o f a landlord port model.
However, with the new and representative Government coming in place, and new and
professional management at NPA, this strategy needs to be reviewed and vetted.

35.      The Ministryo f Public Works i s responsible for execution o fpublicly funded civil works.
Some core capacity and resources exist within the organization and the Emergency Infrastructure
Project (EIP) now under implementation, jointly with this Project, i s building targeted fiduciary
capacity through a Special Implementation Unit (SIU) to be hosted by the Ministry and a Project
Financial Management Unit (PFMU) at the Ministry o f Finance. The use o f these two units, as
well as the assistance provided by international financial controllers through the GEMAP
framework, will help ensure the proper use o f resources associated with both infrastructure
projects.

36.      The National Port Authonty (NPA) has been assigned to manage all Liberia ports. The
NPA is an incorporated SOE, required to provlde and maintain port facilities and derive its main
revenue from marine service, storage and handling charges. NPA's management i s overseen by
an Executive Board appointed directly by the President.

37       NPAis over-staffed with some 1,700 employees, whereas ports with similar traffic would
need no more than several hundred. The port i s a public port and most services are provided by
the NPA, who i s the owner o f all facilities, infrastructure and superstructure. Having said this, it
was found out that several facilities have been leased out to pnvate third parties (such as
warehouses and sheds), but the NPAnever producedany hard evidence.

38.      Management at RIA has been entrusted with an MD and Deputies whose work i s
overseen by an Executive Board appointed by the President. Incontrast to the NPA, RIA has not
been incorporated and technically, it i s a public, budgetary entity Inreality, RIA functions as a
SOE without a legal act establishing it as a corporation. Similar to the other Liberian SOEs, RIA
i s overstaffed (392 employees).

39       In January 2006 a Civil Aviation Authonty (CAA) was established by law Under the
Governance Reform Committee o f the NTGL, the civil avlation law was drafted, which
principally accommodated Yamoussoukro declaration and formed a legal framework to allow
establishment of a single autonomous national airport authonty (covering local air stripes as



                                                  26

well), and independent civil avlation agency in line with the ICAO recommendations. Airports
legislation i s lagging inthis regard.

40.      Management practices at both the NPA and RIA are weak. Both entities were audited in
2004 as part o f a larger effort financed by the EC to establish a baseline for a follow-up institution
strengthening effort at five revenue-generating SOEs. Findings concluded weak management,
operational structures and systems, largely non-existent financial controls, and abundance o f
nontransparent, largely corruptive practices.

41.      To react to this challenge, the Government decided to mandate all SOEs to consolidate
their revenue collected inno more than two escrow accounts (for Libenan and foreign currencies)
at a Libena commercial bank. In addition, both SOEs were included on the GEMAP list where
internationally recruited financial controllers with binding co-signature authonty are being
deployed for a penod o f one to two years wth the objective to improve financial management
practices. The financial controllers have been tasked to design, establish, and monitor a system o f
transparent financial management in order to secure revenue flows into the escrow accounts. The
financial controllers are also responsible to revlew and sign on all expenditure vouchers that
should not exceed approved SOE budgets. In cases o f financial irregularities or disputes, the
financial controllers are mandated to submit the issue for review and resolution with one o f the
GEMAPbodies - the Technical Team or the EGSC. This stnngent control mechanism has been
introducedinorder to strengthen fiduciary practices while also buildcapacity at both SOEs.

42.      In addition to the financial controller, the NPA will benefit from a port operations
specialist for a period o f one to two years. The port specialist will review current operational
practices including tanff and fee structures, the NPA organigram and corresponding staffing
levels, port security issues. The port specialist will work with the NPA and the Bank (TA
provided under this project) to develop the strategic framework for the sector and draft a plan for
corporate reorganization. Both the financial controllers and the port operations expert are
financed by USAID.

3.5      GOL Sector Strategy

43.      Repair o f cntical infrastructure at the port and the airport was declared a top prionty o f
the new Government because o f its direct impact on safety (airport), stability and long-term peace
(port). Inaddition, by improving operational efficiency and financial transparency, the GOL aims
to increase public revenues and fight corruptive practices. Followng the lifting o f the UN
sanctions on diamonds and timber, the Port o f Monrovia i s expected to become a key gate for
trade export.

3.6      Responseof the InternationalCommunity

44.      Investment needs in Libena are enormous, span across all sectors, and reach tens o f
millions o f dollars. The two largest international donors - the U S and the EC, who are
collectively responsible for close to 70% o f pledged funds inthe transitional period, are active in
the social and utility sectors. The Bank, on the other side, has been leading the dialogue with the
Government in the transport sector. In partnership with the Bank, the USAID has funded the
financial controllers and the port operations specialist at the two SOEs, while UNMIL provides
security at both the airport and the port. Recently, potential interest was also signaled by the U S
to invest additional funds at the Port o f Monrovla. The Bank team has initiated discussions with
U S officials on possible US-funded investments and will pursue this possibility throughout
project preparatiordimplementation.



                                                  27

45.     The volume o f required investments to rehabilitate transport infrastructure and achieve
tangible results have made it difficult for smaller donors to engage in the sector. As a result,
rehabilitation o f the transport infrastructure on a large scale, beyond the funds provided in the
proposed project, with the goal o f producing quality transport corndors vital to sustained
economic development and trade facilitation has yet to be undertaken.




                                                 28

                          Annex 2: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
             LIBERIA INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATIONPROJECT
                                         ResultsFramework

PDO                                 Outcome Indicators                Use of OutcomeInformation

Provide Government with             Continued, safe and reliable         Restoration o f critical
emergency support to restore        service provision via the target     mfrastructure will indicate
priority infrastructure inthe Port  mftastructure:                       success insupporting GOL's top
o f Monrovia and at Roberts                                              pnority to remstate assets
International A q o r t and assist  i)AccesstothePortofMonrovia          destroyed duringthe war, ensure
the Government indevelopmg          is preserved: vessels with 10.5 m     continued and reliable flow o f
medium term strategic framework     draft or less can enter port          goods to Liberia, and support
for efficient andproductive port                                          safety and security mthe country
and aviation sectors                ii)Oiljettystrengthened,fully
                                    operational and safe with vessel      The development o f sub-sector
                                    discharging capacity o fup to          framework strategies will indicate
                                    30,000 dwt                            transition from post-conflict to
                                                                           longer-term development onented
                                    iii)Firefightingcapacityatthe          envuonment
                                    Port o f Monrovia established.

                                    iv) Efficient andreliable
                                    containers handling service:
                                    Mimmum10 moves per hour and
                                    10days dwell time or less

                                    v) MinimumICAO air navigation
                                    safety international standards:
                                    met

                                    Strategic port and aviation
                                    framework formulated


IntermediateResults                 ResultsIndicatorsfor Each              Use ofResultsMonitoring
Oneper Component                    Component

                                                                         ~~    ~




Component One: Infrastructure       Port: i)The port entrance and          Reviews o f results targets will
Rehabilitation.                     basin are brought to the requued       provide complimentary
Rehabilitate selected and           depth for the vessels calling          mformation on: overall port
pnoritized infrastructure           without risk o f grounding:            handling costs; preparedness o f
                                    channel width o f 150m; channel        the private sector to undertake a
                                    depth o f CD - 1lm                     nsk and mvest inthe post-conflict
                                                                           environment o f Liberia; examne
                                    ii)Theimportofthebasicfuel             longer term effect on insurance
                                    categories (heavy oil, gas oil,        risks and premums
                                    gasoline andjet fuel) is taking
                                    place under safe and secure
                                    conditions: oiljetty structure
                                    refurbished mcluding
                                    construction o f new off-load
                                    station, moonng dolphns,
                                    wa1kways


                                                     29

                                  iii)Capacitytocombatlargefires
                                  restored

                                  iv) Contamer t e m a l contract ln
                                  place: Average annual crane
                                  productivity o f 10 teushour and
                                  10days dwell time or less

                                  A q o r t : v) Alrfield Ground
                                  Lighting(AGL) for runway and
                                  taxiway 111   place and Instrumental
                                  Landing System (ILS) for
                                  mstrumental and precision
                                  approach is fully calibrated and
                                  operational


Component Two:                    Improved t e c h c a l capacity by a The results may be used as a
Technical Assistance and          core o f SIUMPW, NPA and RIA proxy inassessing the GOL's
Capacity Building                 semor staff andunderstanding o f     readiness to liberalize
                                  prlncipal Bank policies and          traditionally public services and
Long-term vision for the          procedures                           deal withrelated issues o f down-
operation and development o f the                                      smng o f SOEs, reorgamzation
two sectors and SOEs-             Government decision on strategic     and security reforms
developed and discussed           direction and reform o fport and
                                  aviation sectors
Strengthen capacity at M P W and
both SOEs


Component Three: Project          Fully staffed and operational SKJ
Management                        at MPW and PFMU at MoF

                                  The S I U manages LIRP activities
                                  inconformance with legaland
                                  fiduciary requlrernents, as stated
                                  inthe Grant Agreement




                                                     30

I    I

                             Annex 3: DetailedProjectDescription
              LIBERIAINFRASTRUCTUREREHABILITATIONPROJECT


Grant instrument
1.       The funding instrument for the Infrastructure Rehabilitation project (LRP) i s a Trust
Fundgrant inthe amount ofUS$8.5 million.

Component A: Infrastructure Rehabilitation: (Total including contingencies US$7 70
million).

2.       The Technical Assessment Report o f Emergency and Longer Term Actions required in
the Port o f Monrovia lists some 25 different projects identified through detailed discussions and
workshops with the National Port Authonty (NPA) and stakeholders. Emergency works were
categonzed interms o f pnority as: Cntical, Highest Priority and HighPrionty

3.       On the basis o f the available budget, it was consequently decided that the following
projects will be tendered.

Al. MonroviaPort: DredPing(US$2.20 million).

4.       From a navigational safety point o f view it i s necessary to maintain an entrance channel
width o f 150 m with an 11meter draft. Based on bathymetric survey results, this requirement i s
not met by far as the channel width i s less than lOOm at that draft. The dredging quantities
associated wth this navigational requirement are in the order o f 500,000 m3,including dredging
o f part o f the port basin. As any obstruction o f the entrance channel due to stranding o f a vessel
might directly impact the supply line o f Libena, dredging operations were given the highest
priority A soil survey was carned out in the entire area to be dredged. Analysis o f the samples
concluded that the material to be dredged i s not polluted, and consequently, that there i s no
principal objection to dump the spoil at sea, o f course while paying attention to possible marine
environmental implications (such as coral reefs, spawning grounds o f intensely used, n c h fishing
grounds. Currently, the intention i s to dump the spoil in approximately 30 m deep water, which i s
at some 3-4 nautical miles from the port. The Liberian Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
has been requested to formulate an expert opinion o f the proposed dumping site and
methodology Pumping the spoil to shore was considered but rejected, because o f cost
implications.

A2. MonroviaPort: UpgradingOil Jet& (US$2.75 million).

5.       The refined products jetty, which i s the only functioning one in the country, has
technically detenorated to a degree that it forms a severe risk to the country's fuel supply
Furthermoreno fire fighting installation on the refined products jetty i s available, increasing nsks
even further. Within the Port o f Monrovra there are no fire fightingalternatives.

6.       The oil jetty will be structurally upgraded, pipes replaced (until landfall) and adequate
safety measures introduced. There i s an informal agreement with the Libena Petroleum and
Refinery Corporation (LPRC) to replace the oil pipes fromjetty landfall to their tank farm, and to
co-ordinate these works with those o f the jetty




                                                  32

7         Collapse o f the jetty would place the country's fuel supply in great danger and a
disrupted fuel supply would among other things, stop food supply and distribution, UNMIL
actiwties, power generation and water supply

A3. MonroviaPort: Prowding Fire FightingCapacity at NPA Yard (US$2.15 million).

8.        The chances o f fire in the port are relatively high. The effects o f a large scale fire in the
port would be disastrous to the countries food supply and export (rubber). At the moment there i s
no fire engine inthe port, the fire hydrant system i s not functioning, there i s no water supply and
there i s no trainedNPA fire bngade.

9         It is therefore o f great importancethat minimally the fire water supply system to the NPA
yard i s made functional again and the NPA fire brigade adequately equipped and trained.

10.       The works will prowde for the design, supply, delivery, handling, installation,
commissioning, testing and setting to works o f needed equipment for acceptable firefighting
capabilities at NPA yard.

A4. Roberts International Aimort: Navigational, aeronautical, meteorological and security
eauipment (US$0.60 million).

11.       As a result o f the prioritized assessment, the most urgently needed emergency
interventions and actions were categorized into 5 prioritized groups in order to arrive at a
manageable implementation o f the required emergency works. The total cost o f the
interventions/actions i s estimated at about US$4.0 million (US$3.6 million for goods and works,
and US$0.4 mil. for supervision services) as shown in the following table (5 bid packages are
listed as per the priontization order).

                   EmergencyWorks                       Estm. cost                    Note

                    ~~


  Supply and installation of navigational,aeronautical,                           Incl. inLIRP
  meteorologicaland security equipment                     0.5
  Refurbishmentof RIA R&FFtrucks ambulanceetc              0.6       Firstchoicefor financingifbidsavings
                                                                        realized inagreedLIRPpackage
  Supplyofmaterials for airsideandrepairsairport           0.1                   Not addressed

                          ~~


  Supplyandmaintenanceof airportequipment                  1.8                   Not addressed

  Improvementsofutilities(incl.supply ofpower              0.3                   Not addressed
  generators)
  Contingency(10%)                                         0.3



  Sub-Total                                                3.6

  Supervisionc        o       s  t     s     (     l     0 0.4 %   )


  TOTAL                                                    4.0

12.       LIRP will fund the top pnority package No. 1 (supply and installation of navigational,
aeronautical, meteorological and security equipment) only, leawng the possibility o f selecting
other packages, if any additional funds are identified or any savings are realized due to



                                                       33

uncertainties in costing o f these activities. If there are savlngs realized in bids received, the first
additional RIA prionty will be financing o f additional fire fighting ability


  Item                                          ContentsandDescription                   Estimated
  No.                                                                                    cost (US$)
   1.1     AVAIDS:                Supply o f Earthmg & Lightning Protection                  5,000
           DVOR                   (ELP) system, including spares
   1.2     AGL                                                                              45,000
           R W Y edge lights      Supply o f RWY light fittings, bulbs and
           TWY edge lights        colored lenses, mcl. spares.
                                  Supply o fblue TWY edge retro-reflective
                                  markers, incl. spares
   1.3     Provision for          For DVOR. ILS/DME and PAP104                              40.000
           Calibratiofllight      Executionby ASECNA liaison with C A A only.
                                                           -
           Check
   1.4     Aeronautical &         Supply, installation, comssionmg & testing               170,000
           Meteorological
           Equipment              -- one voice recorder mATC Tower;
                                     one Automatic Weather Observation Station
                                    (AWOS)
   1.5     Security Equipment     -Supply,new
                                           installation, comssionmg & testing              200,000
                                    two      generation X-ray machines for hand &

                                  -- spares
                                    hold luggage screenmg;
                                    two walk-through metal detector gates;
                                           for the above.
                                  Remove X-ray machme inDepartures &
                                  reinstate inCargo area.
   1.6     Aircraft Liability                                                               40,000
           Insurance
           Sub-Total                                                                       500,000
           Contingencies          (10%)                                                     50,000
S u p e r v l s l o n c a .10%)                                                             50,000

           TOTAL                                                                           600,000


13.       The RIA currently has no 3rd party liabilitylaircraft insurance, which i s a matter of
absolute pnority for RIA to address. However, a sustained coverage o f the 3rd party
liability/aircraft insurance i s imperative. Without which, the Bank will not be in a position to
allow further procurementlactivities for RIA'Sbenefit.

ComponentB: TechnicalAssistance andCapacityBuilding:(Total US$O.15 million).

14.       Provision o f selective and ad-hoc technical assistance to Government, including support
to develop a strategic framework for the sub-sectors, as well as targeted training inNPA and RIA
to complement normalization o f operations. The project will assist NPA in bnnging about a
container terminalhandling concession and will support NPA for tendenng a marine or towage
semce contract ifrequired.

ComponentC: ProjectManagement:(Total US$0.65 million).

15.       Overall implementation responsibility will be by the Ministry o f Public Works through a
Special Implementation Unit (SW) being set up and which will provlde coordination,



                                                     34

procurement, M&E and support to safeguard management. Financial Management will be under
the auspices o f the Ministry o f Finance, through a Project Financial Management Unit (PFMU),
also in the process o f being set up. These arrangements are arranged jointly with a separate
project, the Emergency Infrastructure Project (EIP), which will be implemented in parallel with
this Project. The SIU andPMFUwill be staffed with a combination o f competent MPW staffand
selected technical assistance.

16.      Inaddition to the core fiduciary competencies, the SIU for the purpose ofthisProjectwill
be strengthened with a port engineer and an environmental engineer on retainer, as well as other
specialist support as may become needed.

Cost estimatesof civil works andtentative approachin case of insufficientfunds

17       It is mentioned inthe main text o fthis PAD that a significant uncertaintyexists about the
cost estimates, as these are based on Rough-Order-Magnitude (ROM) approach which has
relatively large margin o f error (approximately 30-35%). Technical review o f the port works to be
funded will take place dunng implementation, as these will be procured on the basis o f design-
install/construct. Similarly, once bids come in it will be evaluated whether all proposed activities
fit withinthe fixed fundingenvelope for this Project.

18.      Dredgingand rehabilitation o f the oiljetty civil works are o f a nature that does not allow
any scaling down o f inputs to cut costs. Effectively, to achieve the minimal draft and safety
through dredging, and to ensure a functioning oil jetty, these works need to take place in their
entirety Similar situation applies to the airport works. The identified equipment and their
installation i s a minimal requirement to meet ICAO standards.

19       The equipment and civil works related to container park fire fighting, however, can be
scaled down and still achieve some improvement in fire fighting capacity at the port. Therefore,

down - or inextreme case, cut - to fit the budget.
in case of overall civil work costs being higher than now anticipated, this work will be scaled




                                                 35

                                 Annex 4: ProjectCosts
          LIBERIA INFRASTRUCTUREREHABILITATION PROJECT




                                                                              Total
Project Cost By Component                            Local
                                                  US$ million   US$ million
                                                                  Foreign     million
                                                                              US$


InfrastructureRehabilitation                          2.00          5.70        7 70
TechnicalAssistance                                   0.00          0.15        0.15
ProjectManagement                                     0.40          0.25        0.65



Total Baseline Cost                                   2.40          6.10          8.50



                            TotalProject Costs        2.40          6.10          8.50

Contingencies irrelevant as civil works cost estimates are based on RoughOrder
Magnitude




                                           36

                           Annex 5: ImplementationArrangements
            LIBERIA INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATIONPROJECT


1.      The LIRP will be implementedjointly under the identical arrangements agreed on for the
Emergency Infrastructure Project. This entails the setup o f a Special Implementation Unit (SIU)
in the Ministry o f Public Works, and a Project Financial Management Unit (PFMU) in the
Ministry o f Finance.

2.      Project implementation penod: The project will be implemented from December 1, 2006
to September 30,2010.

A. Capacity of Governmentto Implementthe Project

3.      Capacity o f the Government to implement a project o f this magnitude i s weak at this
stage. The new Government i s committed to better performance and transparency and endorsed
the Act creating the Public Procurement Commission. This Act was drafted under the Bank's
TFLIB-project and closely follows the Bank's own Procurement Guidelines. Government has
further agreed on the implementation arrangements for the project to compensate for the current
weaknesses and to strengthen its capacity to implement future projects. These are described
below

B.ProjectImplementationandManagement Structure

4.      Project oversight: A Steering Committee, chaired by the Deputy Minister responsible for
Technical Services o f the MPW, and consisting o f a maximum of seven members including,
amongst others, representatives o f the Infrastructure and Basic Services Pillar, MOF, MOT,
Ministry of Planning, LEC and the LWSC, will be responsible for overall project oversight and
policy guidance.

5.      Additionally, for the purposes o f LIRP specifically, a Steenng Group, chaired by
Minister o f Public Works, will be activated on an ad-hoc basis if discussion among different
entities o f the Government i s needed for addressing policy issues in the port and aviation
subsector. The ad-hoc meetings will be called by the chairman at the request o f the Ministry of
Transport, or the heads o fNPA or RIA.

6.      Project management: Given the urgent nature o f the project, the short time frame for
implementation and the limited capacity o f Government, the following institutional arrangements
have been agreed to ensure that funds disburse quickly with manageable implementation nsks,
objectives are reached and absolute transparency i s maintained.

7       Government decided to centralize the financial management tasks associated with donor
projects in one Project Financial Management Unit (PFMU) in the Ministry o f Finance. This
project and EIP will be the first two Bank projects to support this planned initiative. The Special
Implementation Unit (SIU) will be set up in such a way that, the relevant financial management
responsibilities are established inthe PFMU.

8.      MPW will implement the Project through the creation o f the SIU and staffed with a
combination o f competent MPW staff and selected technical assistance. The SIU, managed by a
competent full-time project coordinator/unit manager (a high level senior Government official to
be appointed or a project management specialist to be recruited), with qualifications and
expenence acceptable to the Bank, will include as key staff; Financial Management Specialist,


                                               37

Procurement Specialist and, on an as and when requiredbasis, both an Enmronmental Expert and
a Transport Economist. Engineers from the road and water sectors, will also be recruited to the
S I U for the purposes o f the EIP For LIRP, S l U may secure the services o f a port engineer and an
environmental engineer on retainer for port specific civil works.

9        The SIU will have basic financial management capacity to support the requirements o f
the PFMU that will be responsible for all financial management tasks. Coordination between the
S I U and the PFMUwill be based on a Memorandumo f Understanding, signed between the MPW
and the MOF, defining the responsibilities o f and levels o f service required frombothparties. The
PFMU will have a unit manager with international accounting qualifications acceptable to the
Bank, project accountant and an internal auditor.

10.      The coordinator will have direct communication with the Team Leader and will be
responsible for day-to-day management o f the project. The S I U will have an appropnate skills
mix, including technical, project management, fiduciary as well as environmental and safeguard
skills to carry out its functions. Inparticular, the S I U will be responsible for: a) asswng steady
progress o f the procurement in accordance with annual work plans and accompanying remewed
and approved by the World Bank, b) ensuring satisfactory implementation o f activities included
inall contracts, c) ensunng that a highethicalstandardandtransparency is maintainedthroughout
the entire project implementation, d) prepanng the quarterly intenm un-audited financial reports
(IFR), and e) monitoringand evaluating performance indicators andresults.

11.      The MPW has not been functioning as a proper Ministry for many years and the SIU
would be used to assist with re-establishing the functions in the MPW Also, Government has
structured itself into four basic pillars to manage service delivery The MPW, as chair o f the
Infi-astructure and Basic Services Pillar, intends to build on the capacity developed by the SIU, to
extend its capacity to implementprojects across all sectors under this pillar.

12.      For the S I U the immediate steps prior to effectiveness include the appointment o f the
project coordinator and a procurement specialist who will manage the initial start-up tasks and the
initial procurement activities. These S I U members could be appointed either from existing staff o f
Government or as consultants and will have qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Bank.

13.      For the PFMU the immediate steps prior to effectiveness would be to appoint an
accountant who, assisted by the Bank-supported technical assistance in the MOF, will be
responsible for the initial financial management tasks.

14.      The remainder o f the staff for both the S I U and the PFMU should be in place within 6
months after effectiveness. This will ensure that these units are fully operational by then. These
appointments will serve as a condition o f disbursement. Government will achieve this by
appointing the following staff to the SIU; Financial Management Specialist, Procurement
Specialist and Envlronmental Specialist, and to the PFMU; unit manager and an internal auditor.
These staff shall all have qualifications and expenence acceptable to the Bank.




                                                  38

          Annex 6: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
            LIBERIA INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATIONPROJECT


Introduction

1.      The financial management assessment was carned out in accordance wlth the Financial
Management Practices Manual issued by the Financial Management Board on 3 November 2005,
The objective o f the assessment was to determine whether the implementing entities have
acceptable financial management arrangements, which will ensure: (1) the funds are used only for
the intended purposes inan efficient and economical way; (2) the preparation o f accurate, reliable
and timely periodic financial reports; and (3) safeguard the entity's assets.

2.      The financial management assessment was carned out by the Bank financial management
team and included intemew with key staff (including financial comptroller) at the Ministry o f
Public Works. Our assessment also draws on earlier work carned out under Economic
Management and Development Program for Liberia.

Overview of ProgramandImplementationArrangements

3.      The main development objective o f the project i s to provide Government o f Liberia with
emergency support to restore pnonty infrastructure in the Port o f Monrovia, the Roberts
International Airport and assist the Government in developing medium term strategic framework
for efficient and productive port and aviation sectors. The Bank's support will be provided
through three main components, namely- i)Infrastructure Rehabilitation; this will involve the
rehabilitation and upgrading o f the Monrovia Port through the dredging, upgrading o f the oiljetty
and provision o f firefighting capacity to the Monrovia port. It will also provide navigational,
aeronautical, meteorological and security equipment, including earthing and lighting protection
system, runway and taxiway edge lighting for the Roberts International Airport; ii)Technical and
Capacity Building; this will support the Government o f Libena to develop strategic framework
for the sub-sectors, as well as provide targeted training in NPA and RIA to complement
normalization o f operations; and iii)Project Management; this will prowde support to the overall
management o f the project and complement efforts from the Emergency Infrastructure Project to
ensure effective project implementation.

4.      The overall project arrangement will benefit from the arrangements put in place for the
Emergency infrastructure Project (EIP). Similarly oversight will be provided by a project steenng
committee, chaired by the Ministry o f Public Works and with membership including
representatives from Infrastructure and Basic Services Pillars, MOT, LWSC and MOF The
MPW has weak capacity and as a result will implement the Project through the creation o f a
Special Implementation Unit (SIU) staffed with a combination o f competent MPW staff and
selected technical assistance. The S I U will support with re-establishing key funcbons, including
financial management, procurement and contract management functions, in the MPW and
Government. Due to the weak capacity o f finance staff in the line ministries and the need to
ensure an effective and efficient management o f resources, it is proposed that a Project Financial
Management Unit be created in the Ministry o f Finance to manage Bank funds in Libena. The
PFMU will be staffed with competent financial professionals (specialists) wlth the required
expenence and qualifications acceptable to IDA. The financial specialists or team will be
responsible for the day to day management o f project finances, prepare project financial
procedures manual, including the required intenm un-audited financial statements and put in




                                                39

place adequate arrangements for the auditing o f the project financial statements at the end o f each
fiscal year.

CountryAccountability Issues

5.       The Bank has not yet carned out a Country FinancialAccountability Assessment (CFAA)
or ESW inthe area o f financial management for Liberia and may not do so in the next 2 years. It
i s therefore not possible to detail out the overall country issues. However, since Libena i s
emerging from 15 years o f civil war, it i s only right to assume the non-existence o f adequate
financial management systems for the country as well as agencies that would be involved in
project management.

6.       The nsk analysis and the mitigation measures are limited to the nsk within the project's
control.

Summary of Risk Analysis

Inherent Risk                        RiskRating        RiskMitigationMeasure
Country Level
Country will not have adequate              S          Special arrangements will be put in
PFMsystems dunngthe life o fthe                        place to ensure that Bank funds are
project .                                              safeguarded from ineffectwe country
                                                       svstems.
No Country wide FMdiagnostic                S          Reliancewill not be placed on country
ESW will be carned out duringthe                       or public systems unless additional
implementation period o f the                          special arrangements are developed to
project.                                               ensure that project funds will be
                                                       safeguarded.
The country may not have                   M           Competitive recruitment will be
adequately qualified FM                                extended to the international and sub-
professionals.                                         regional market to ensure that the right
                                                       caliber o fDrofessional staff i s recruited.
Entity Level
EntityManagementmaypolitically              S          Strong and independent project
interfere with project fiiaicial                       financial management unit (PFMU) will
management controls.                                   be created.

OverallInherentRisks:                       S
Control Risk:
Ministry of Public Works:
 Staffing:

     a) The Ministrydoes not               M           Project will support the establishment o f
         have a full complement o f                    a PFMUwith competent staff.
         required accounting staff.
     b) Any accounting staffat                         Projectresources will be made available
         post may not have                             for the recruitment o f qualified
         expenence inWorld Bank                        accounting staff for the PFMU.
         FMand disbursement                            Qualifications and experience will be
         procedures.                       M           set out clearly inthe TOR for the
     c) The Government salanes                        Dositions.



                                              40

          may not be adequate to
          recruit the required             PFMUstaff will train available
          competent staff                  Government staff to improve their
          immediatelv                      capacity dunngproject implementation.

Internal Control Procedures:

    a) The Ministry has not                Project will require that FMprocedures,
          documented any o f FM            with adequate internalcontrols, and
          procedures ina manual.           Memorandum o fUnderstandingto be
    b) FMpolicies maynotbe                 signed between the SW and the PFMU
          adequate and may not even        are documented ina manual which will
          be inplace.                      be cleared by the World Bank.
    c) That management may
          override any existing            The creation o f the independent Project
          controls.                        Financial Management Unit (PFMU)
                                           with qualified financial staffwith
                                           specific job descriptions will minimize
                                           any control override that may occur
                                           under the projects.

                                           Frequent Bank oversight and penodic
                                           external reviews will be instituted.
Fund Flows

a) Project may not submit             M    Accounts staff o f PFMU and S I U
withdrawal applications on timely          performance will include a measure of
basis, thereby causing possible            the timeliness o fthe submission of
implementation delays.                     withdrawal applications.

InternalAudit (IA)

The MPW has no functioning IA          S   The financial procedures andpolicies
unit.The Special Implementation            put inplace will ensure adequate
Unitmaynot establishanIAas                 internal checks to address any
part o f its operations.                   weaknesses that the absence o f an IA i s
                                           likelv to create.
External Audit

The audited financial statements o f  M    The selection o f independent auditors
the project will be submitted late.        would be completed pnor to the end o f
                                           the first fiscal year.
Information Systems

A computerizedaccounting system       M    The PFMUwill implement such a
may not be implemented ina                 system within six month after their
satisfactory manner.                       engagement or establishment.
OverallControlRisk.                    S

StrengthsandWeaknesses




                                        41

Strengths
7        There i s a strong commitment by the Ministry of Finance and the MPW to support the
implementation of the project. The implementing agency, which will be a Special Implementation
Unit (SW) as well as the establishment of the PFMU within the MOF will ensure effective
project management. The staff for these units will be competitively selected in accordance with
agreed TOR satisfactory to IDA. This will ensure speedy and timely implementation o f projects.
The PFMUwill establish and maintain at all times appropnate financial management systems and
practices that will meet the World Bank FMrequirements.

Weaknesses
8.       As in other post conflict countries, the overall fiduciary enwronment in Libena i s very
weak. The accounting staff at the Ministry o f Finance (MOF) and MPW has no expenence with
World Bank financial and disbursement procedures. The PFMU will in the long run be required
to build FM capacity within the line Ministnes including MOF and MPW Successful
implementation o f this project will require ownership and active support from Governmental
authorities and less of interference. This i s the greatest challenge that this project will face.

FMStaffingfor theProject

9        The weak financial    management capacity at the MPW as well as several Ministnes in
Libena, and to build capacity at the vanous Ministries will be a long term objective. However to
ensure efficient, effective and timely project financial management semces for the Liberia
Emergency Infrastructure Project and the Liberia Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project it i s
proposed that a Project Financial Management Unit (PFMU) created inthe Ministryo f finance o f
Libena i s made responsible for the day to day financial management o f the projects. The Ministry
o f Finance will ensure that 3 finance staff, with qualifications and expenence that are satisfactory
to World Bank are recruited to man this unit. The PFMU will be supported to put in place
adequate financial management systems that meet the Bank's minimum FM requirements. The
staff will be trained in World Bank disbursement procedures, to enable them manage the
resources o f Bank funded projects in Liberia. Depending upon experience the responsibility o f
this unitcould, at a later stage be expanded to cover other donor fundedprojects.

Project FinancialManagement

10.      The Project Financial Management Unit (PFMU) created in the Ministry o f finance o f
Libena will be responsible for the day to day financial management o f the 2 infrastructure
projects. The PFMU i s headed by a qualified accountant with expenence in public financial
management and expenence acceptable to IDA. It will establish an effective accounting system
that provides for adequate segregation o f functions, capable o f recording all accounting
transactions, and reporting correctly all assets and liabilities o f the project. The system should
also be capable o f producing accurate periodic financial reports including interim un-audited
financial reports (IFR) and annual project financial statements.

11.      The project will adopt the cash basis inthe treatment and recording of all transactions. In
addition, the project will maintain a statement o f liabilities outstanding at all times to correctly
reflect the projects indebtedness to suppliers and thirdparties. The financial management system
should be documented in a financial accounting procedures manual which must be cleared by the
World Bank.

BudgetingArrangements
12.      The project will prepare an annual budget for the project based upon the agreed program
to be financed by the project. Most o f the activities o f the key components are already known and


                                                   42

these will be included in the project annual budgets. The annual project budget will be reviewed
and agreed with the World Bank, andN o objections will be issued for only activities agreed inthe
budget.

Flow of Funds Arrangements
13,     The project arrangements are such that there will be no implementing entities at any
decentralized position and the PFMU will therefore operate a centralized funds management
system for the project. All requests for payment will be sent to the Accountant for processing and
payments. Where the single payment i s above a defined threshold it will be processed and sent to
Washington for direct payment to the third party There will be a requirement for the PFMU to
submit withdrawal applications inrespect o fthe project to the WorldBank onmonthly basis. This
will ensure the project has hnds for operations at all times.

Auditing Arrangements

14.     Independent and qualified auditors, acceptable to the Bank, would be selected to carry
out the audit o f the project. The selection o f auditors shall be on competitive basis and in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines and would be inplace six months after the effectiveness o f
the project or on an agreeable date after effectiveness.

15.     The project financial statements including movements in the designated accounts will be
audited in accordance with International Standards o f Auditing (ISA) and a single opinion will be
issued to cover the project financial statements, SOEs and the designated account, in accordance
with the Bank's new audit policy

16.     The auditors' report and opinion in respect o f the financial statements including the
management letter would be furnished to the World Bank within six months o f the close o f each
fiscal year.

Reporting and Monitoring

17      The project will prepare quarterly project intenm un-audited financial reports or
statements (IFR) in the areas o f finance, procurement, including complaints from bidders, and
project progress. The financial management system put in place should be capable o f producing
these reports. The reports are:

18.      The Quarterly Financial Reports: which would consist o f a statement o f cash receipts by
sources and expenditures by main expenditure classifications for the penod and cumulatively;
cash balances o f the project; and supporting schedules companng actual and budgeted
expenditures;

19      Quarterly Physical Progress Report: include a narrative information and output
indicators, linking financial information with physical progress and report on issues that require
attention;

20.     Quarterly Procurement Management Report: would consist o f information on
procurement for goods and works and that for consultants' services and compliance with agreed
procurement methods. The report compares procurement performance against the plan agreed at
negotiations and appropriately updated at the end o f each quarter. The report should also provide
any information on complaints by bidders, unsatisfactory performance by contractors and any
contractual disputes.




                                                  43

21.      The PFMUo f the MOF will be responsible for prepanng the financial reports required as
part o f the intenm un-audited financial reports required to be produced under the project. These
financial reports will be submitted to the S I U for consolidation and submit copies to the Bank
within 45 days o f the end o f each quarter. The content and format o f these reports will be agreed
upon 2 months after the full establishment o f the PFMU.

DisbursementArrangements

22.       The proceeds o f the grant would be disbursed over a three-year penod. A period o f four
(4) months after the closing date, as agreed with IDA, would be allowed to make disbursements
for expenditures incurred untilthe closing date o fthe grant.

SummarizedDisbursementTable

  DisbursementCategory               Amount of the             Percentageof
                                  FinancingAllocated         Expendituresto be
                                  (expressedinUS$M)              Financed

   (a) Consultant Semces                    1.4                    100%

   (b)Training                             0.04                    100%

   (c) Goods                               0.15                    100%

   (d) Works                               6.70                    100%

   (e) Operating Costs                     0.17                    100%

   Total                                  8.50


Use of Statement of Expenditures(SOEs)

23,      Disbursements for all expenditures would be against full documentation, except for items
o f expenditures under contracts and purchase orders below US$200,000 equivalent each, for
works, below US$100,000 equivalent each, for goods, below US$50,000 equivalent each for
consulting firms, and US$lO,OOO       each for consultant services (individuals), training and
incremental costs for which disbursements would be based on statement o f expenditures (SOEs).
Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by the PFMUfor rewew by IDA missions
and external auditors

DesignatedAccount (DA)

24.      The Grant Designated Account (DA) o f the project will be managed by the PFMU o f the
MOF The grant DA can only be opened and operated after the full establishment o f the PFMU.
The designated account for the project funds will be maintained in U S Dollars and opened at
commercial bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the IDA.Upon grant effectiveness, a
sum o f US$850,000 would be deposited by the Bank into the grant DA when the PFMUis fully
established. Further deposits would be made into this account against withdrawal applications
supported by appropriate documentation.

Conditions So Far:


                                                 44

25.      The following actions are to be implemented as specified; these are the same as those for
the EIP.


                                                           By Whom                   ByWhen

         (Effectiveness condition)                            MOF            Prior to effectiveness
         Signing o f MOU between MOF and
         MPW on relationship between SIU and                  MOF            Within 6 months o f
                                                                             achievlng effectiveness
       I PFMU.
         Agree on formats o f IFRs to be prepared                            Within 2 months o f
J.
L)
         under the project                                MOFMPW              achieving effectiveness
         PFMU fully staffed and established with
4.       unit manager      and     internal   auditor         MOF            Within 6 months after
         appointed. (Condition o f disbursement)                              effectiveness

5'       Preparation o f Financial Management UnitManager PFMU/ Within 6 months o f
         Procedures Manual for the project.            Coordinator S I U      achieving effectiveness
         Installation o f integrated accounting
         software, including data testing. The
6.       software will be an o f f the shelf package UnitManagerPFMU         Within 6 months o f
         customized    for  the     projects   being                          achieving effectiveness
         managedby the PFMU
7        Recruitment o f Project Auditors            UnitManager PFMU        Within 9 months o f
                                                                             achievine;effectiveness

Supervision Plan

26.     During the first year o f the project implementation, intensive World Bank supervision
will be required in order to ensure that the project financial management arrangements are in
place and functioning. The first supemsion mission after effectiveness will take the form o f an
FM Specialist visiting MPW to review systems and operations introduced by the PFMU o f the
MOF There will be a minimumo f two supervision missions per year. There will be other FM
missions ifthe situation demands it.

Conclusionof FMAssessment

27      The financial management assessment has concluded that the nsk for the project i s
Substantial and actions have been put in place to ensure that the identified nsks are adequately
mitigated. The engagement o f a professionally qualified accountant as part o fthe establishment o f
the PFMU within the MOF, the requirement for the establishment o f systems and procedures by
the PFMU as part o f their assignment, and the agreed auditing arrangements for the project will
ensure that the project risks are minimized. This will also require intensive Bank supervision in
the first year o f project implementation to ensure that introduced systems by the PFMU are
functioning well and that all agreed actions have been fully implemented.




                                                  45

                           Annex 7: ProcurementArrangements
            LIBERIA INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATIONPROJECT


A.       General
1.       Procurement o f goods and works and selection o f consultants would be carried out in
accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" dated M a y 2004; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers" dated M a y 2004, and the provlsions stipulated in the Legal Agreement or any
other method accepted by the Bank The vanous items under different expenditure categones to be
financed are described below For each contract to be financed by the Grant, the different
procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-qualification, estimated
costs, pnor review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Government and the
Bank project team in the Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least
annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in
institutional capacity

2.       Procurement of Works: A total o f about US$6.70 million o f works would be procured
under this project. These would include: (a) Dredging o f the Freeport o f Liberia; (ii)
Refurbishment o f the Oil Jetty; (iii)the Provision o f Fire-Fighting Capacity for the National Port
Authonty (NPA) yard; and (iv) the Supply and Installation o f nawgational, aeronautical,
meteorological and security equipment at the Roberts International Airport. The procurement will
be done using the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for all ICB and for all others
National SBDs agreed with or satisfactory to the Bank. Contracts below US$200,000 but above
US$50,000 equivalent per contract will be procured under National Competitive Bidding.
Contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract would be procured using
shopping procedures based on a model request for quotations satisfactory to the Bank. Direct
contractingmay be used where necessary, but will be subject to Bank's no objection.

3,       Procurement of Goods: A total o f about US$0.15 million o f goods would be procured
under this project. These would include: (a) procurement o f a vehicle, (b) computers, pnnters,
UPSs, etc. (c) financial software, (d) heavy duty photocopier, and (e) office furniture and
furnishing for the Financial Management and Special Implementation Units. The procurement
will be done using the Bank's SBD for all ICB and National SBD agreed with or satisfactory to
the Bank. Contracts below US$200,000 but above US$50,000 equivalent per contract may be
procured under National Competitive Bidding. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000
equivalent per contract would be procured using shopping procedures based on a model request
for quotations satisfactory to the Bank. Direct contracting may be used where necessary, subject
to Bank's no objection.

4.       Alternatively, goods may also be procured from UN Agencies (e.g. IAPSO - Inter-
Agency Procurement Services Office) provided that such a contract does not exceed US$lOO,OOO
for each type o f goods,

5.       Selection of Consultants: Consultancy semces valued at about US$1.65 Million to be
provided include project audits, works supervision, monitoring and evaluation, capacity building,
project management and supemsion. Contracts for consulting semces, each estimated to cost
US$lOO,OOO equivalent or more, will be awarded following the procedure o f Quality and Cost
Based Selection (QCBS). Consulting services estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO per contract
under this project would be procured following the procedures o f Selection Based on
Consultants' Qualifications (CQS). For all contracts to be awarded following QCBS and LCS the


                                                46

Bank's Standard Request for Proposals will be used. Procedures o f Selection o f Indivldual
Consultants (IC) would be followed for assignments which meet the requirements o f paragraph
5.1 and 5.3 o f the Consultant Guidelines. Least-Cost Selection (LCS) would be used for
assignments for selecting the auditors Procedure o f Single-Source Selection (SSS) would be
followed for assignments which meet the requirements o f paragraphs 3.10-3.12 o f the Consultant
Guidelines and will always require the Bank's pnor revlew regardless o f the amount.

6.       Short lists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent
per contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants in accordance with the provisions
o fparagraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines.

7        Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$50,000 per contract for firms, and
contracts for individuals for assignments estimated to cost above US$lO,OOO and single source
selection o f consultants (firms and individuals) will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

8.       Operating Costs: This will cover such costs as communications, travel and per diem,
consumables and equipment maintenance.

9        The procurement procedures and SBDs to be used for each procurement method, as well
as model contracts for works and goods procured would be available for IDA revlew by
effectiveness.

B.       Assessmentof the Agency's capacityto implementProcurement
10.      An assessment o f the capacity o f the country to implement procurement actions was
carried out by a World Bank team led by Mbuba Mbungu (Senior Procurement Specialist) in
August 2004. The assessment reviewed to some extent the organizational structure for
implementingprojects and the interaction between the projects' staff responsible for procurement
and the Government's relevant central unit for administration and finance.

11.      Since January 2006, Libena has a new Procurement L a w that i s based on the Bank's
procurement guidelines. The Law lists procedures that need to be complied with. Namely, the
Procuring Entity at the MPW has to be involved in the process o f procuring contracts. Contracts
will be signed by the designated officials o f the M P W and beneficiary agencies, which will then
be responsible for the management o f the contracts.

12.      There i s limited procurement capacity in the Ministry o f Public Works. To mitigate this
risk at the project implementation level, a Special Implementation Unit (SIU) will be created at
the MPW to be staffed with a combination o f technical assistance and competent MPW staff. The
S I U will have responsibilities in the areas o f project management, procurement, and financial
management. Its responsibilities will include: (a) assunng steady progress o f the procurement in
accordance with an implementation schedule reviewed and approved by the World Bank; and (b)
ensunng satisfactory implementation o f activities includedinall contracts.

13.      At a minimum, the SIU must have a procurement specialist with engineering background
to manageprocurement. The specialist will: (i)     plan and process all procurement; (ii) the
                                                                                          monitor
implementation o f the procurement plans; and (iii)   train staff o f the implementing agencies inthe
use o f procurement procedures agreed under the project, including compliance with World Bank
Procurement Guidelines. The Procurement Specialist will need to be in place before Grant
effectiveness.

14.      The overall project nsk for procurement i s substantial.



                                                  47

C.      ProcurementPlan
15.     The Government, at appraisal, drafted an 18 month procurement plan for project
implementation which provldes the basis for the procurement methods. This plan will be agreed
on between the Government and the Project Team duringnegotiations and will be available at the
Offices o f the S l U at the Ministry o f Public Works in Monrovia. It will also be available in the
project's database and in the Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in
agreement with the Project Team annually or as required to reflect the actual project
implementationneeds and improvements ininstitutional capacity

D.      Frequencyof ProcurementSupervision
16.     In addition to the prior revlew supemsion to be camed out from Bank offices, the
capacity assessment o f the implementing Agency has recommended three to four supervision
missions each year to visit the field to carry out revlew o fprocurement actions.

E.      Detailsof the ProcurementArrangements InvolvingInternationalCompetition
17      Goods, Works, and Non Consulting Services


L-      (a)       List o f contract packages to be procuredfollowing ICB and direct contracting:
                                                          -
                                                           5      6             7        I s          I
          Contract                                         P- Domestic
                                           Method          Q      Preference
                              ($Million)                          (yes/no)


          Dredging o f           1.86           ICB        N o        Yes         Prior      Dec. 1,
          DOrt
 NPA      Refurbishment                                                                      Dec. 22,
                                                                                           1          I
 Com-     o f Oil Jetty          2.40           ICB                   Yes         Prior
                                                          -No
ponent Provision o f
          Fire-fighting          1.89           ICB        No         Yes                    Dec. 22,
          facilities                                      -                       "lor 2006

          Supply and
          installation o f
 RIA     navigational,
 Com-     aeronautical,          0.55           ICB        N o        Yes
ponent   meteorological
          and secunty
          equipment                                       -

        (b)       ICB contracts estimated to cost above US$200,000 per contract and all direct
contractingwill be subject to prior review by the Bank.

18.     Consulting Services

        (a)       List o f consulting assignments with short-list o finternational firms.




                                                  48

                             3         4              5          6
                            Estimated Selection       Review by  ExpectedProposals
                             cost      Method         Bank(Prior submissionDate
                             ($Million)               /Post)
             Supervision     0.30      QCBS                        Dec. 20,2006
             refwbishment                                Prior
   NPA       of oiljetty
Component Supervision
             fire fighting
             facilities


ListofInternationalIndividualConsultants(IC) for the PFMUandthe SIU

1            2               3          4             5          6
             Descriptionof Estimated Selection        Review by  ExpectedEO1
  RefNo.     Agreement       cost       Method        Bank(Prior submissionDate
                             ($Million)               /Post)
             Supervisionof
   NPA       Dredging
Component Works                 0.08         IC          Prior     Aug. 16,2006


             Supervisionof
             supply c!k
    RIA      Installation of
Component Navigational,
             aeronautical,      0.045        IC          Prior      Aug. 16,2006
             meteorological
             and secunty
             equipment

               Financial
               Mgmt              0.36        IC          Prior      Aug. 16,2006
  Project      Specialist
 Financial     Project
Management     Accountant        0.24        IC          Prior      Aug. 16,2006

Unit (PFMU) Project
               Internal          0.24        IC          Prior      Aug. 16,2006
               Auditor
  Special      Environment
Implement-     a1Engineer        0.25        IC          Prior      Aug. 16,2006
    ation      Port
 Unit (SIU)    Engineer          0.14        IC          Prior      Aug. 16,2006




                                        49

F.      Prior Review
19      All contracts not subject to priorreview will bepostreviewed

Thresholds,ProcurementMethodsandPriorReview Requirements
-
N o   Expenditure           ContractValue                  Procurement           Contracts
        Category                Threshold                     Method             Subjectto
                                  (US$)                                          PriorReview
-                                                                                (US$ )
                                >200,000                        ICB              All Contracts

                         >=50,000 - =<200,000                  NCB               First3 (three)
                                                                                 Contracts
 1        Works
                                 <50,000                      Shopping           None


                                All values         I     Direct Contracting     IAll Contracts


                                >200,000                        ICB              All Contracts


        Goods and                                  I                            I

      Services (other    >=50,000 - =<200,000 I    I           NCB              IFirst3 (three)
 2         than                 =<100,000              UNAgencies(IAPSO)         Contracts    .

        Consulting
         Services)               <50,000                      Shopping           None

                                                                                 All Contracts
-                               All values               Direct Contracting
                            >= 100,000 firms                   QCBS              All Contracts

                             <100,000 firms                    CQS               All Contracts
                              <50.000 firms                    cos               None
 3      Consulting
         Services         >=10,000 individuals                   I C             All Contracts
                          < 10,000 individuals                   IC              None

                                                                                I
                                                   I                            I
                                All Values         I   Single Source Selection   All Contracts

G.      ProcurementAudits andContractManagementmxpenditureReports

20.     Annual procurement audits will be usedto report on fiduciary compliance. Not later than
three months after the end of each financial year, the Coordination and-Monitoring Unit will
submit to the Bank a procurement audit report prepared by consultants selected in accordance
with the guidelines for selection of consultants and Terms of Reference to be incorporated inthe
PIM. In addition, the Coordination and Monitonng Unit will prepare and submit to IDA on a
quarterly basis contract management and expenditure information.




                                                50

                                      Annex 8: Safeguards
           LIBERIAINFRASTRUCTUREREHABILITATIONPROJECT


FindingsandRecommendationsofthe PreliminaryEnvironmentalImpact
Assessment (pEIA)

1.      The pEIA identified the major issues and impacts associated with the emergency works
and proposed any measures (mitigation, monitoring, institutional arrangements) required to limit
any such impacts. If these measures are included in the construction specifications and contract
for the works and if they are properly implemented, then it i s expected that all negative impacts
associated wth the emergency works will be minor or As L o w As Reasonable Practicable
(ALARP).A summary o f the impacts o f construction and dredging, the mitigation measures, and
the residual significance o f the impacts that remain moderate or more severe after mitigation i s
given in Table 8-1. Minor impacts are not shown in the table but are detailed in the pEIA. The
pEIA also contains the corresponding information for operation and decommissioning o f the
works. The details for those phases have not been included in this Annex, but the costs for the
mitigation measures are included inTable 8-2 which summarizes estimated costs.

2.      With respect to the "major" impact o f dredge spoil disposal, the potential impacts, their
mitigation measures, and their residual severity will be examined in detail in the EA that the
pEIAhas called for the dredging operation. The quality o fthe dredge spoil andthe location o fthe
disposal site are key inputsto the more detailed analysis.

InstitutionalArrangements for EnvironmentalManagement andMonitoring

3.      The pEIA includes recommendations for implementation o f the EArecommendations:

Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs

0     Major stakeholder ingeneral environmental and development matters,
0     Major holder o f enwonmental data.

Environmental Protection Agency

0     Review and approval o f the final EIA,
0     Responsibility to task NPA to ensure implementation o f prescribed mitigation and
      monitoring programs,
0     Provide expertise to NPA for implementation/ dissemination o f the mitigation and
      monitoring programs.

National Port Authorities (Employer)
      To ensure that there are sufficient resources (time, money and people) to manage the
      implementation o f the EMP,
0     Ensure bid documents include actions to address adverse impacts resulting from
      construction work,
      To ensure that the EMPreflects any changes duringthe constructionprocess that may have
      a significant environmental or social impact,
0     Ensure deposition o f copies o f EMPto stakeholders,
0     Liaison with the environmental authonties.



                                                51

Contractor

      Ensure that there are sufficient resources (time, money and people) to manage the
      environmental issues o f the works,
      Be responsible for ensung that all site staff, including sub-contractors and sub-contracted
      activities will comply with the projects EMP,
      Ensure that any changes during the construction process that may have a significant
      environmental or social impact are communicated to the Supemsing Engineer in time and
      manage them accordingly,
a     Ensure that the Environmental Supemsing Engineer is sufficiently informed on
      Contractor's monitoring results,
      organizing the weekly work meetings.

Environmental Supervising Engineer (ESE)
4.       It is advisable to contract out the environmental supervision o f the works to a thirdparty,
an Environmental Supervising Engineer (ESE), independent o f the Contractor. The ESE would
preferably be an international expert since the works are complex and will probably be carried out
by an International Contractor (or more than one). It is recommended that an internationalESE is
involved part time duringthe works, together with two local Environmental Engineers.

      Ensure that there are sufficient resources (time, money and people) to supemse the
      environmental issues o f the works,
a     Ensure that any changes during the construction process that may have a significant
      environmental or social impact are communicated to NPA in time and advise on actions to
      be taken and costs involved,
a     Ensure that NPA i s sufficiently informed on monitoring results.

Contractor performancemonitoring

5.       Inorder to ensure that the Contractor is fully aware andpreparedfor the management of
health, safety, envlronmental and social (HSES) aspects o f his project, the Contractor(s) o f the
works should be required to prepare an HSES Management Plan (HSES-MP) for the specific
works to be executed under his contract. The Contractor's HSES-MP will serve two main
purposes:

a      For the Contractor, for internal purposes, to ensure that all measures are in place for
       adequate HSES management, and as an operational manual for his staff,
0      For the Client, supported where necessary by a Supemsing Engineer (SE), to ensure that
       the Contractor i s fully prepared for the adequate management o f the HSES aspects o f the
       project, and as a basis for monitonng o f the Contractor's HSES performance.

6.       The Contractor's HSES-MP should be reviewed and approved by the Client before start
o f the works. This review should demonstrate that the Contractor's HSES-MP covers all o f the
identified impacts, and has defined appropnate measures to counteract any potential impacts. The
Contractor's HSES-MP should provide:

       An overview o fthe HSES aspects and impacts relatedto construction works,
a      Relevant Liberian legislation and Liberian and WB standards to which the Contractor will
       comply, including the way inwhich he will monitor such compliance, specifying:
a      Standards against which the monitonng will be set (national and WB),



                                                  52

      Which parameters and limitswill be monitored,
      Frequency at which monitoring will be undertaken,
      A clear definition o f specific mitigation measures that are intended to be implemented in
      order to minimize the impacts,
      The internal organizational, management andreportingmechanisms put inplace for such.

Institutionalcapacity andtrainingof NPA

7       NPAdoes not have sufficient capacity interms o fnumbers of trainedenvironmental staff
to carry out the EMP Training needs o f relevant NPA staff (to be assigned) and local consultants,
who will be involved inthe emergency works, and more specifically inthe execution o f the EMP,
shouldbe identified. The following type o f knowledge should be available at NPA.

      General knowledge on environmental and social management for selected NPA staff
      involved inthe emergency works,
      Specific HSES knowledge for staff who will undertake regular monitonng o f the
      Contractors o fthe works to ensure compliance wlththe EMP

8.       It i s recommended that the different training components are organized by a third party
who i s fdly acquainted wth internahonal environmental management practices and relevant WB
and EPA guidelines. The estimated cost o f training i s included inTable 8-2.

Cost estimates

9        Costs estimates and sources o f funds for initial investment and recurrent expenses for
implementing all measures contained in the EMP, should be integrated into the total project costs
by the Client. Table 8-2 presents cost estimates of key cost for planning and implementation of
mitigation measures as defined in this EMP. Estimates are provided only for measures that are
outside o f the scope o f general good construction practices, 1.e. where specific endeavors,
incumng additional costs, are expected.




                                                 53


         3e
         5
          m
         k0




                                4e,




                  G f

                 b e ,
                  ~  P o o o o 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
                  g z                                 (




e  e  e o e e e o



I
1 %

r                -

                 L
                 i3
                 0




 "
 0




 Lr




               C
       0 0 o o g
              c

               E$
 2            42


Table 8-2a: Cost estimates (in US$) for planning and implementationof mitigation
          measures (includingmonitoring)specificto activity group




Table 8-2b: Cost estimates (in US$)of capacitybuildingandtechnicalassistance for
                  EMPimplementation.
 Budgetcomponent                                                             Cost estimate
 TrainingKapacity building                        General Envlronmental      20,000
                                                  Specific HSES              20,000
 Environmental Supervising Engineers team (1 international part time and 2   150,000
 nationals for 0.5 year)
 TOTAL                                                                       1mnnn

Conclusion

10.      This pEIA identified the major issues and impacts associated with the emergency works
and proposed any measures (mitigation, monitoring, institutional arrangements) required to limit
any such impacts.

11.      If these measures are included in the construction specifications and contract for the
works and if they are properly implemented, then it i s expected that all negative impacts
associated with the emergency works will be minor or As Low As Reasonable Practicable
(ALARP).

12.      Next to that, the pEIA has identified the need for further investigation o f project
alternatives where it concerns the dredging. The quality o f the dredge spoil and the disposal
options (location o f the dumpsite, re-use-etc) for spoil are key inthis.

13.      Furthermore, an early opening o f discussion with the EPA i s recommended since this
service i s not yet fully functioning as it i s under development.




                                                    58

                        Annex 9: PreparationandSupervision
          LIBERIA INFRASTRUCTUREREHABILITATIONPROJECT
                                              Planned                   Actual
PAD review                                                            May 9,2006
InitialPID to PIC                                                    May 30,2006
InitialISDS to PIC                                                   May 30,2006
Appraisal                                                            May 19,2006
RVP approval                           November 10,2006
Planned date of effectiveness           December 1,2006
Planned date of mid-ternreview         November 30,2007
Planned closing date                   September 30,2010


Key institutionsresponsiblefor preparationof the Project:
Ministry of Public Works, Ministryof Finance, Ministry o f Transport, National Port
Authonty, Roberts InternationalAirport Agency

Bankstaff andconsultantswho workedon the Projectincluded:

Name                                        Title                           Unit
Anne Njuguna                           TeamAssistant                       AFTTR
AnthonyMensa-Bonsu                  Procurement Specialist                 AFTPS
CorneliusKruk                         Sr. Port Specialist                  TUDTR
FerdinandTsn Apronti                Procurement Specialist                 AFTPC
FrederickYankey             Senior FinancialManagement Specialist          AFTFM
Gylfi Palsson                   Sr. Transport Specialist, TTL              AFTTR
KremenaIonkova                        Operations Officer                   AFMLR
Luigi Giovine                       Senior CountryOfficer                  AFMLR
MbubaMbungu                     SeniorProcurement Specialist               AFTPC
MuthoniKaniaru                             Counsel                         LEGAF
ParminderBrar               LeadFinancialManagement Specialist             AFTFM
PaulKnss                        Sr. EconomistKluster Leader                AFMLR
Sophie Hans-Moevi                  LanguageTeam Assistant                  AFTU2
Thomas Walton                             Consultant                       AFTEG
Wiebe Moes                         Senior Sanitary Engineer                AFTU2




Bank funds expendedto date on project preparation:
1. Bankresources: Approximately US$25,000
2. Trust funds: Approximately US$75,000
Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:
1. Remaining costs to approval: US$25,000
2. Estimated annual supervision cost: US$lOO,OOO


                                           59

                    Annex 10: DocumentsintheProjectFile
      LIBERIA INFRASTRUCTUREREHABILIT-ATIONPROJECT

1.  DetailedAssessment of Emergency and Longer-term Actions requiredto Re-
    establish Efficient Port Operations inthe Port o fMonrovia-January 31,2006
    (Royal Haskoning)
2.  Emergency Works Report -March 2006 (NACO Airport Consultants/Steward
    Scott)
3.  Assessment of Emergency Repairs and Feasibility and Design Studies for Urban
    Supply, Sanitation, Storm-water Drainageand SolidWaste Management in
    Libena-February 2006
4.  Telecommunication Law andLicensing ReformPresentationto Stakeholders-
    June 24,2005 (McCarthy T6trault)
5   Report o fthe Underwater Inspection at the Freetownof Monrovia, Liberia-The
    Oil Jetty - June-July 2005 (Royal Haskoning)
6.  Pavement Assessment-November 2005 (NACO Airport Consultants/Steward
    Scott)
7.  Environmental Scanof the Port of Monrovia-July 2005 (Royal Haskoning)
8.  Draft Airport Master PlanReport -September 2005 (NACO Airport
    Consultants/Steward Scott)
9.  Detailed Assessment o f Emergency and Longer-term Actions requiredto Re-
    establish EfficientPort Operatlons Draft Master PlanReport -August 31,2005
    (Royal Haskoning)
10. Inception Report: Robert International Airport -July 2005 (NACO Airport
    Consultants/Steward Scott)
11. SpectrumPncingandFees: Telecommunication Sector ReformProject -June 29,
    2005 (Mclean Foster Co.)
12. NationalTelecommunication Policy and Strategy: Final Sector Policy Document
    -June 29, 2005 (Hellerstein & Associates)
13. IMO.Needs Assessment Advisory Missionon Mantime Security- Libena-
    November 28 -December3,2004 (International Mantime Organization)




                                         60

                                                    Annex 11:Countrv at a Glance
 Liberia at a dance                                                                                                                         9114/06

                                                                                                             1
                                                                                    Sub-
Key Development Indicators                                                       Saharan         Low
                                                                    Liberia         Africa    income            Age distribution, 2005
(2005)                                                                                                                     Male               Female

Population,mid-year (millions)                                          3.3           74I 2,353                70.74                  I
Surfacearea (thousandsq. km)                                           111         24,265     29,265
Populationgrowth (%)                                                                                           60.64
                                                                        1.3           2.1         1.8
Urban population(% of total population)                                  58             35        30           50-54
                                                                                                               40-44

GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                        0.4           552       1,364          30.34

GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                     130            745        580
GNI per capita (PPP, international$)                                                1,981      2,486

GDP growth (%)                                                          5.3           5.3         7.5                        10        0      10        20
GDP per capita growth (%)                                               3.9           3.1         5.6                               percent

(most recent estimate, 200CL2005)

Poverty headcountratioat $1 a day (PPP,%)                                               44
Poverty headcountratio at $2 a day (PPP,%)                                              75                     Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                                           42             46        59
Infant mortality(per 1,000 live births)                                157            100         80            250

Child malnutrition(% of children under5)                                 27             29        39            200

Adult literacy,male (% of ages 15and older)                                                       73            150
Adult literacy,female (% of ages 15and older)                                                     50
Gross primaryenrollment, male (% of age group)                         115              99        110           100

Gross primaryenrollment, female (% of age group)                         83             87        99            50

Access to an improved water source (% of population)                     61             56        75             0

Access to improvedsanitationfacilities (% of population)                 27             37        38         I           1880    1995   2000   2004


                                                                                                                    O Liberia        Sub-SaharanAfrica


Net Aid Flows                                             1980        1990          2000        2005

(US$ millions)
Net ODA and officialaid                                      98        114              68       210           Growth of GDP and GDP per capita (%)
Top 3 donors (in 2004):
  UnitedStates                                               32          19             16        103        I 1501
  UnitedKingdom                                                1          1              3         16
  Sweden                                                       0          0              1         13

Aid (% of GNI)                                             10.5        10.3          17.5        52.8
Aid per capita (US$)                                         52          53             22        65


Long-Term EconomicTrends
                                                                                                                    80           85         w            05
Consumerprices (annual % change)                           14.7         9.1
GDP implicit deflator(annual % change)                       9.1       -0.2           -1.3        9.0        I     +GDP             -GDPper        capita

Exchange rate (annualaverage,local per US$)                  1.o        1.o          41.O        57.1
Terms of trade index (2000 = 100)
                                                                                                                 1980-90     1990-2000      2000-05
                                                                                                                      (average annualgrowth %)
Population,mid-year (millions)                               1.9        2.1           3.1         3.3                  1.3          3.6          1.4
GDP (US$ millions)                                          854        384            561        548                  -7.0          4.1         -6.8
                                                                       (% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                32.2        54.4          72.0        63.6
Industry                                                   25.2        16.8          11.6        15.2
  Manufacturing                                              6.9                      9.4        12.0
Services                                                   32.3        28.8          16.4        21.1

Householdfinal consumption expenditure                     66.1                      89.1        86.9
Generalgov't final consumption expenditure                 19.1                      14.4        10.8
Gross capital formation                                                               4.9        15.9

Exports of goods and services                              64.3                      23.2       36.6
Importsof goods and services                               64.4                      37.6       50.2
Gross savings                                                                       -21.4        18.3

Note: Figuresin italicsare for years other than those specified. 2005 data are preliminaryestimates. .. indicatesdata are not available.
a. Aid data are for 2004.

DevelopmentEconomics, DevelopmentData Group (DECDG).

                                                                                                                                                            Page 2 of 3


                                                                                                                                                              Liberia

Balance of Payments and Trade                             2000       2005

(US$ millions)                                                                            GovernanceIndicators,2000 and 2004

Total merchandise exports (fob)                             120         41
Total merchandise imports (cif)                             182        142                 Voice andaccountabiiity           1           1
Net trade in goods and services                             -25       -205                                                                              1,
                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                    Politicalstability
Workers' remittances and                                                                                                                                I
   compensation of employees (receipts)                                                          Regulatoryquaiity

                                                                                                                             l~
Current amount balance                                     -131       -118                               Rule of law
   as a % of GDP                                          -23.3      -21.4                     Controlof corruption
Reserves, including gold                                       2        10                                            0     25           50            75       100


Central Government Finance                                                                          2004                Country'spercentile rank (0-100)
                                                                                                 02000                    higher mlues imply bener ratings

(% of GDP)
Revenue                                                                                   Source Kaufmann-Kmay-Mastrum. W o ~ Bank
                                                                                                                               d
   Tax revenue
Expense
                                                                                       Technology and Infrastructure                                  2000       2004
Cash surpluddeficit
                                                                                       Paved roads (% of total)                                         6.2
Highest marginal tax rate (%)                                                          Fixedline and mobile phone
   Individual                                                                            subscribers (per 1,000people)                                    3
   Corporate                                                                           Hightechnology exports
                                                                                         (% of manufacturedexports)
External Debt and Resource Flows
                                                                                       Environment
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                      2,032      2,706             Agricultural land (% of land area)                                 27       27
Total debt service                                                       1             Forestarea (% of land area, 2000 and 2005)                      35.9      32.7
HiPC and MDRl debt relief (expected; flow)                     -1        -             Nationally protected areas (% of land area)                                 1.7

Total debt (% of GDP)                                     362.2      544.6             Freshwaterresources per capita (cu. meters)                         ..  61,717
Total debt service (% of exports)                           0.6        0.6             Freshwaterwithdrawal (% of internal resources)                      ..     0.1

Foreign direct investment(net inflows)                        21        20             C02 emissions percapita (mt)                                    0.13      0.74
Portfolio equity (net inflows)                                 0         0
                                                                                       GDP per unit of energy use
                                                                                         (2000PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)
    Cornpooltlonof total externaldebt, 2004
                                                                                       Energyuse per capita (kg of oil equivalent)
                              IBRO, 152,     IDA, 111




                                                                                        (US$ millions)
              ShorMerm 1181
                                                                                        IBRD
                                                                                         Total debt outstanding and disbursed                           130       146
                                                                                         Disbursements                                                    0         0

                                      I                                                  Principal repayments                                             0         0
                                 Private, 207                                            Interest payments                                                0         0

    US$ millions                                                                        IDA
                                                                                         Total debt outstanding and disbursed                           100       106
                                                                                         Disbursements                                                    0         0
Private Sector Development                                2000       2005                Total debt service                                               0         0

Time requiredto start a business (days)                                                 IFC (fiscal year)
Cost to start a business (% of GNI per capita)                                           Total disbursed and outstanding portfolio                        4         I
Time required to registerproperty (days)                                                  of which IFC own account                                        4         1
                                                                                         Disbursementsfor IFC own account                                 4         0
Ranked as a major constraintto business                                                  Portfolio sales, prepayments and
   (% of managerssurveyedwho agreed)                                                      repayments for IFC own account                                  0         1
     n.a.
     n.a.                                                                               MlGA
                                                                                         Gross exposure                                                             -
Stock market capitalization(% of GDP)                                                    New guarantees                                                   --        -
Bank branches(per 100,000people)                                                                                                                                  'H4

Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. 2005 data are preliminaryestimates.                                                        8112/06
.. indicatesdata are not available. -indicates observation is not applicable.

Development Economics,Development Data Group (DECDG)


MAP SECTION


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 34852
                            11W                                                      10W                                                                9W                                                    8W


        This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
        Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

9N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9N




                                                                                                                                       G U I N E A                                                     LIBERIA

       S I E R R A
                                                                                                                      To
        L E O N E                                                                                                    Iri
                                                                 To                            Voinjama
                                                                                               oinjama
                                                              Buedu
                                                                                      KolahunKolahun

                                               To                               Mt. Wuteve
                                                                                Mt.            uteve
                                          Pendembu                                (1,380 m)
                                                                                  (1,380 m)

8N                                                          Vahun
                                                              ahun                                                   Mts.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8N

                                            To
                                          Kenema
                                                                 GelahunGelahun                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                       Lola
                                                      Gbeya          Wologizi        Range           Wonogizi        Zorzor
                                                                                                                     Zorzor


                                                                                                                                                                               Yekepa
                                                                                                                                                                                 kepa                Mts.
                                                             Loffa               L O FA                     Via                        Nianda                 To
                                                                                                                                                           Nzrkor                  Nimba
                            Kongo                                                                        GabalatuaiGabalatuai                                                  Saniquellie
                                                                                                                                                                               Saniquellie
                                                                                                                                                                                                             To

         To                                                                                                                                                   GahnpaGahnpa             KahnpleKahnple    Danan

        Zimmi   GRANDGRAND
                                                 Bopolu
                                                 Bopolu
              BoBo
7N               CAPECAPE                                                                                 Gbarnga
                                                                                                           Gbarnga
                                                                       Paul                                                                  PalalaPalala                                                                                                    7N
                MOUNTMOUNT                                                                                                                                          SagleipieSagleipie
                                            Tubmanburg
                                             ubmanburg              St.                                ZienzuZienzuB O N G                               Yopie
                                                                                                                                                         opie
                                                                      Bong Town
                                                                      Bong own                  Totota
                                                                                                 otota                                                       N I M B A
 Robertsport                        B O M I                                                                                                                                                                                              C  T E
                                 KlayKlay
                                                                                                                          BotataBotata                                    Gloie
                                                                                                                                                                          Gloie        Nuon                             D ' I V O I R E
                                          Careysburg
                                          Careysburg                M A R G I B I                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                                             Toulpleu
                                                                     Katkata
                                                                     Katkata                                                                               Tapeta
                                                                                                                                                            apeta
                                                                                                                              St.     John

                                                                                                                                                                                       Tobli
                                                                                                                                                                                        obli
                     MONROVIA                                                   G R A N D
                                                                       Harbel
                                                                       Harbel
                                                                                 B A S S A                                            GuataGuata                                 PoabliPoabli                Kola Town
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Kola own

             MONTSERRADO
                                                                               HartfordHartford         GaamodebiGaamodebi
6N                                                                                                                                                                                                  BabuBabu  Zwedru
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Zwedru                                        6N

                                                                     Buchanan                         Trade
                                                                                                       rade        RIVERCESS
                                                                                                                   RIVERCESS
                                                                                                      Town
                                                                                                       own                                                                            G R A N D G E D E H
                                                                                                                     GongleeGonglee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Dube
                                                                                                                                                                                       PynePyne

                                                                                                                          Cestos         BokoaBokoa
                                                                                                                                                          S I N O E
                                                                                                     River Cess                                                                                                    PelokehnPelokehn

                                                                                                                                                   KopoKopo      JuazohnJuazohn
                 ATLANTIC OCEAN                                                                                                                                                                                      KahnwiaKahnwia
                                                                                                                    Sehnkwehn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Tawake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 awake

                                                                                                                                                                                                     Tawlokehn
                                                                                                                                                                                                     awlokehn
5N                                                                                                                                     Greenville                                                                                                           5N

                                                                                                                                                                                      G R A N D                                       NyaakeNyaake
                                    LIBERIA                                                                                                                     Nana Kru                     K R U
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION                                                                                                                                                                                 BarclayvilleBarclayville

                                PROJECT                                                                                                                                         Sasstown                           M ARYLAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Grand Cess                        PliboPlibo
                                INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT                                                                                                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Tabou

                                MAJOR PORTS                                                                                                                                                                           Harper

                                SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                COUNTY CAPITALS

                                NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                                                             4N


                                RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                           0      20           40       60            80      100 Kilometers
                                MAIN ROADS

                                RAILROADS                                                                                                                  0              20                 40              60 Miles

                                COUNTY BOUNDARIES

                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                              10W                                                                9W                                                    8W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JUNE 2006


