Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  07/26/2006 
Report No.:  AC2448
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Liberia 
Project ID:  P101456 
Project Name:  Liberia Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project 
Task Team Leader:  Gylfi Palsson 
Estimated Appraisal Date: May 9, 2006 
Estimated Board Date: August 14, 2006 
Managing Unit:  AFTTR 
Lending Instrument:  Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector:  Ports, waterways and shipping (75%);Aviation (15%);General transportation 
sector (10%) 
Theme:  Infrastructure services for private sector development (P);Administrative and 
civil service reform (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER 
0.00 
 SPECIAL 
FINANCING 
8.50
8.50 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [X] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
To provide Government with emergency support to restore priority infrastructure in the 
port of Monrovia and at Roberts International Airport and assist the Government in 
developing medium term strategic framework for efficient and productive port and 
aviation sectors.  
 
Successful implementation of project will be evidenced by:  
 
a) Identified civil works implemented with quality commensurate to design,  
 
b)
Institutional capacity strengthened, and  
 
c) Government has developed a strategic framework for port and aviation sector.   
 
3. Project Description 
Component A: Infrastructure Rehabilitation: (Total US$ 7.70 million).  
 
The Technical Assessment Report of Emergency and Longer Term Actions required in 
the Port of Monrovia lists some 25 different projects identified through detailed 
discussions and workshops with the National Port Authority (NPA) and stakeholders.  
Page  2
Component B: Technical Assistance and Capacity Building: (Total US$0.15 million).  
 
Provision of selective and ad-hoc technical assistance to Government, including support 
to develop a strategic framework for the sub-sectors, as well as targeted training in NPA 
and RIA to complement normalization of operations.  
 
Component C: Project Management: (Total US$0.65 million).  
 
Overall implementation responsibility will be by the Ministry of Public Works through a 
Special Implementation Unit (SIU) being set up and which will provide coordination, 
procurement, M&E and support to safeguard management. Financial Management will be 
under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance, through a Project Financial Management 
Unit (PFMU), also in the process of being set up.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
A
preliminary EIA and general EMP have been prepared and the individual contractors 
will be required to prepare HSES plans for their subprojects. The Safeguards documents 
will be disclosed in the country and at the Infoshop six (6) months from effectiveness.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Thomas E. Walton (AFTS1) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The project will provide substantial positive environmental impacts.  The only potential 
significant adverse impact is that of dredge spoil disposal.   Impacts predicted to remain 
as moderate after EMP implementation were solid waste disposal, disturbance of 
surrounding commercial activities, water pollution due to fuel spills and turbidity from 
dredging or soil erosion, and occupational health and safety hazards to the workforce.  
Page  3
The nature of the investments at the airport is such that their potential impacts are 
negligible.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
None.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Since the analysis of sediments in the harbor confirms that they are not hazardous and are 
thus suitable for disposal at sea, the alternative of land disposal has been rejected and the 
potential major impact of land disposal has been eliminated. However, a more detailed 
environmental assessment taking into account the characteristics of the marine 
environment - current, depth, presence of sensitive features such as coral reefs and sea 
grass beds, existence of shellfish beds, recreational uses and fisheries is necessary to 
support selection of an appropriate marine disposal site and method is chosen needs to be 
prepared, subjected to stakeholder consultation, and disclosed.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
This project is being processed under OP 8.50, under which it is permissible to defer 
completion of safeguards instruments to the early part of project implementation.  
However, a preliminary environmental assessment has been prepared and disclosed in the 
InfoShop and in-country.  This pEIA covers the potential impacts all proposed 
components and is an adequate basis for preparation of EMPs for the improvements to 
the port with the exception of dredging.  The pEIA provides guidelines for the EMPs and 
lists the mitigation measures applicable to each activity, including dredging.  Contractors 
will be obligated to prepare detailed EMPs covering health, environment and safety and 
to submit them to the Ports Authority for approval prior to commencement of work.  For 
the dredging, a more detailed EA will be prepared covering selection of an offshore 
disposal site (with baseline information on environmental conditions, selection of 
dredging and spoil disposal methods, and management and monitoring of impacts.  
 
Safeguard capacity of the borrower is very low. The project will fund engagement of an 
environmental supervising engineer and provide some training to Port Authority.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
A
public consultation program concerning the emergency works was not conducted due 
to the early stage of the program. In later phase, the Port Authority should inform project 
stakeholders about the works to be undertaken, and provide interested parties with the 
opportunity to comment on these works as being developed, and on the EA and EMP for 
dredging and the EMPs for the other port components.   
 
Page  4
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
03/31/2006 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
04/30/2007 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
04/30/2007 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Cultural Property, the 
respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
Page  5
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Gylfi Palsson 
07/26/2006 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Thomas E. Walton 
07/26/2006 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Mr C. Sanjivi Rajasingham 
07/26/2006 
Comments:   
