Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC2441 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 07/21/2006 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Liberia 
Project ID: P101456 
Project Name: Liberia Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project 
Task Team Leader: Gylfi Palsson 
Estimated Appraisal Date: May 9, 2006 
Estimated Board Date: August 14, 2006 
Managing Unit: AFTTR 
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector: Ports, waterways and shipping (75%);Aviation (15%);General transportation 
sector (10%) 
Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P);Administrative and 
civil service reform (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER 
0.00 
 SPECIAL 
FINANCING 
8.50
8.50 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
Provide Government with emergency support to restore priority infrastructure in the port of 
Monrovia and at Roberts International Airport and assist the Government in developing medium 
term strategic framework for efficient and productive port and aviation sectors.  
 
Successful implementation of project will be evidenced by:  
 
a) Identified civil works implemented with quality commensurate to design.  
 
b)
Institutional capacity strengthened.  
 
c) Government has developed a strategic framework for port and aviation sector.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
The Grant of US$ 8.5 million will start addressing the identified and prioritized emergency 
works and activities in the port of Monrovia and at Roberts International Airport, and to provide 
targeted support to Government in achieving basic organizational capacity for efficient 
Page  2
management of the respective sectors. The project also aims during the relatively short 
implementation period, to support the Government in formulating strategic framework for the 
sectors. Implementation period is 3 years.  
 
A. Civil Works (US$ 7.70 million).  
 
A1. Monrovia Port: Dredging (US$ 2.20 million).  
 
From a navigational safety point of view it is necessary to maintain an entrance channel width 
of 150 m with an 11 meter draft. Based on bathymetric survey results, this requirement is not met 
by far as the channel width is less than 100 m at that draft. The dredging quantities associated 
with this navigational requirement are in the order of 500,000 m3, including dredging of part of 
the port basin. As any obstruction of the entrance channel due to stranding of a vessel might 
directly impact the supply line of Liberia, dredging operations were given the highest priority.  
 
A2. Monrovia Port: Upgrading Oil Jetty (US$ 2.75 million).  
 
The refined products jetty, which is the only functioning one in the country, has technically 
deteriorated to a degree that it forms a severe risk to the country?s fuel supply. Furthermore no 
fire fighting installation on the refined products jetty is available, increasing risks even further. 
Within the Port of Monrovia there are no alternatives.  
 
The oil jetty will be structurally upgraded, pipes replaced (until landfall) and adequate safety 
measures introduced. The Liberia Petroleum and Refinery Corporation has plans of and 
replacing oil pipes from jetty landfall to tanks.  
 
Collapse of the jetty would place the country's fuel supply in great danger and a disrupted fuel 
supply would among other things, stop food supply and distribution, UNMIL activities, power 
generation and water supply.  
 
A3. Monrovia Port: Providing Fire Fighting Capacity at NPA Yard (US$ 2.15 million).  
 
The chances of fire in the port are relatively high. The effects of a large scale fire in the port 
would be disastrous to the countries food supply and export (rubber). At the moment there is no 
fire engine in the port, the fire hydrant system is not functioning, there is no water supply and 
there is no trained NPA fire brigade.  
 
It is therefore of the great importance that minimally the fire water supply system to the NPA 
yard is made functional again and the NPA fire brigade adequately equipped and trained.  
 
The works will provide for the design, supply, delivery, handling, installation, commissioning, 
testing and setting to works of needed equipment for acceptable firefighting capabilities at NPA 
yard.  
 
A4. Roberts International Airport: Navigational, aeronautical, meteorological and security 
equipment (US$ 0.60 million).  
 
This activity addresses the first priority intervention at RIA with provision for supply and 
installation of various navigational, aeronautical, meteorological and security equipment, 
Page  3
including earthing and lighting protection system, runway and taxiway edge lighting, provision 
for calibrating, and aeronautical and meteorological equipment.  
 
B. Technical Assistance and Capacity Building (US$ 0.15 million).  
 
Provision of selective and ad-hoc technical assistance to Government, including support to 
develop strategic framework for the subsectors, as well as targeted training in NPA and RIA to 
complement normalization of operations. The project will assist NPA in bringing about container 
terminal/handling concession and will support NPA for tendering marine or towage service 
contract if required and requested.  
 
C. Project management (US$ 0.65 million).  
 
The LIRP will benefit from the implementation arrangements agreed on for the Emergency 
Infrastructure Project (EIP) and which are being set up within the Ministry of Public Works. 
Under EIP, MPW will implement the Project through the creation of a Special Implementation 
Unit (SIU) staffed with a combination of competent MPW staff and selected technical assistance. 
For LIRP, the SIU will provide coordination, financial management, procurement, M&E and 
support to safeguard management.  
 
Additionally, a port engineer and an environmental supervising engineer will be engaged, as 
well as other specialist support as may become needed.   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
All project activities will be within existing and operation port zone and airport zone in 
Monrovia.   
 
E.  Borro
wer’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
Capacity for managing safeguard policies is near non-existing in the beneficiary entities, NPA at 
the port and RIA at the airport. However, an existing national Environmental Protection Agency 
(EPA) has some and even reasonable capacities and will be engaged during the implementation 
of the project. Additionally, with external support, safeguard issues will be augmented through 
the SIU and the intention is with that support to start addressing the capacity constraints at NPA 
and RIA.   
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Thomas E. Walton (AFTS1) 
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Monrovia Port Dredging: The dredging quantities associated with the navigational 
requirement are in the order of 500,000 m3, including dredging of part of the port basin. As any 
obstruction of the entrance channel due to stranding of a vessel might directly impact the supply 
line of Liberia, dredging operations were given the highest priority.  
 
Upgrading of the Oil Jetty: The refined products jetty, which is the only functioning one in 
the country, has technically deteriorated to a degree that it forms a sev
ere risk to the country?s 
Page  4
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
fuel supply.   
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X  
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X  
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
B
-
Partial Assessment 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  07/27/2006 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  N/A 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
The SMU has agreed to accept transfer of safeguard responsibilities. A preliminary EIA and 
general EMP have been prepared and the individual contractors will be required to prepare 
HSES plans for their subprojects. The Safeguards documents will be disclosed in the country 
and at the Infoshop six (6) months from effectivness.   
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Gylfi Palsson 
07/21/2006 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Warren Waters 
07/21/2006 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr C. Sanjivi Rajasingham 
07/21/2006 
Comments:   
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  5
