                                Document of
                             The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR1708



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (TF-57072)

                                  ON A

                                 GRANT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8.5 MILLION


                                 TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA

                                 FOR AN

              INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT




                             February 25, 2013




Transport Sector
Country Department AFCW1
Africa Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective September 29, 2006)

                    Currency Unit   =   LRD
                      59.50 LRD     =   US$1
                     0.6760 SDR     =   US$1
                      US$1.4773     =   SDR1


                              FISCAL YEAR
                              July 1 – June 30


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGL       Airfield Ground Lighting
AIDP      Agriculture and Infrastructure Development Project
CAA       Civil Aviation Authority
CD        Channel Depth
DME       Distance Measuring Equipment
DVOR      Doppler VHF Omnidirectional Radio
dwt       Deadweight Tonnage
EC        European Commission
EIP       Emergency Infrastructure Project
EMP       Environmental Mitigation Plan
FM        Financial Management
GOL       Government of Liberia
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICAO      International Civil Aviation Organization
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IDA       International Development Association
IIU       Infrastructure Implementation Unit
ILS       Instrumental Landing System
ISR       Implementation Status Report
LIBRAMP   Liberia Road Asset Management Project
LIRP      Liberia Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
LPRC      Liberia Petroleum and Refinery Corporation
LRTF      Liberia Reconstruction Trust Fund
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MPW       Ministry of Public Works
NPA       National Ports Authority
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PDO       Project Development Objective
pEIA      Preliminary Environmental Impact Assessment
PFMU    Project Financial Management Unit
PMU     Project Management Unit
PPF     Project Preparation Facility
PPP     Public-Private-Partnership
TEU     Twenty-foot Equivalent Unit
REOI    Request for Expression of Interest
RIA     Roberts International Airport
ROM     Rough-Order-Magnitude
RPM     Regional Procurement Management
SIU     Special Implementation Unit
SOEs    State Owned Entities
TA      Technical Assistance
TFLIB   Trust Fund for Liberia
UN      United Nations
URIRP   Urban and Rural Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
US      United States
VHF     Very High Frequency




                       Vice President: Makhtar Diop
                     Country Director Yusupha B. Crookes
                    Country Manager: Inguna Dobraja
                       Sector Director Jamal Saghir
                      Sector Manager: Supee Teravaninthorn
                 Project Team Leader: Kulwinder Singh Rao
                    ICR Team Leader: Muhammad Zulfiqar Ahmed
                                      REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
                             Liberia Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project


                                                    CONTENTS


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

1.   Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
2.   Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 8
3.   Assessment of Outcomes........................................................................................ 14
4.   Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ...................................................... 21
5.   Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 22
6.   Lessons Learned ..................................................................................................... 24
7.   Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ........ 27
Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 28
Annex 2: Outputs by Component ..................................................................................... 29
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 31
Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ................ 34
Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 35
Annex 6: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................... 36
Annex 7: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 37
Annex 8: Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders.......................... 43
Annex 9: List of Supporting Documents on File .............................................................. 44

MAP
                                       DATASHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                            Liberia Infrastructure
Country:                Liberia                   Project Name:
                                                                            Rehabilitation Project
Project ID:             P101456                   L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-57072
ICR Date:               07/06/2012                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                       Borrower:
                                                                            LIBERIA
Original Total
                        USD 8.50M                 Disbursed Amount:         USD 8.50M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 8.50M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Special Implementation Unit
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process            Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:       05/09/2006      Effectiveness:           11/28/2006            11/28/2006
Appraisal:            05/15/2006      Restructuring(s):
Approval:             11/13/2006      Mid-term Review:         11/30/2007           10/17/2008
                                      Closing:                 09/30/2010           09/30/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                           Ratings
                                                                            Moderately
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:
                                                                            Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:


                                                  i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Aviation                                                              7                    7
Central government administration                                      9                   9
Ports, waterways and shipping                                         84                  84


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction                  40                  40
Infrastructure services for private sector development                40                  40
Pollution management and environmental health                         20                  20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                         Gobind T. Nankani
Country Director:          Yusupha B. Crookes                   Mats Karlsson
Sector Manager:            Supee Teravaninthorn                 C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
Project Team Leader:       Kulwinder Singh Rao                  Gylfi Palsson
ICR Team Leader:           Muhammad Zulfiqar Ahmed
ICR Primary Author:        Muhammad Zulfiqar Ahmed

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To provide government with emergency support to restore priority infrastructure in the
port of Monrovia and at Roberts International Airport and assist the government in
developing medium term strategic framework for efficient and productive port and
aviation sectors.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)


                                                ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                  approval          Target         Completion or
                                                 documents)        Values          Target Years
                Access to the Port of Monrovia is preserved: vessels with 10.5 meter draft or less
Indicator 1 :
                can enter the port.
Value           Rapid channel silting       Rapid channel                       Fully achieved.
quantitative or threatens closure of        silting threatens                   Dredging
Qualitative)    channel.                    closure of channel.                 completed.
Date achieved 11/07/2006                    12/01/2006                          09/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Oil jetty strengthened, fully operational and safe with vessel discharging capacity
Indicator 2 :
                of up to 30,000 dwt.
Value                                       Oil jetty is
                Oil jetty is deteriorated
quantitative or                             deteriorated and                    Dropped
                and can collapse.
Qualitative)                                can collapse.
Date achieved 11/07/2006                    12/01/2006                          04/22/2008
                This activity was dropped as the bids for dredging works - highest priority of the
Comments        project - came in much higher (almost 92 percent of the Grant funds). This
(incl. %        component is now being implemented under the Urban and Rural Infrastructure
achievement) Rehabilitation Project and Agriculture and Infrastructure Development Project.
                The re-allocation of grant proceeds were approved in April 2008.
Indicator 3 : Firefighting capacity at the Port of Monrovia established.
Value                                       Firefighting
                Firefighting capacity does
quantitative or                             capacity does not                   Dropped
                not exist.
Qualitative)                                exist.
Date achieved 11/07/2006                    12/01/2006                          04/22/2008
Comments
                This activity was dropped due to cost overruns in the port dredging contract and
(incl. %
                the grant proceeds were re-allocated in April 2008
achievement)
                Efficient and reliable container handling service: a minimum of 10 moves per
Indicator 4 :
                hour and 10 days or less dwell time.
                                                                                Achieved through
Value
                                                                                Private concession
quantitative or 3 moves per hour.           3 moves per hour.
                                                                                in place since
Qualitative)
                                                                                February 2011.
Date achieved 11/07/2006                    12/01/2006                          09/30/2010
Comments
                 Container terminal contract in place: Average annual crane productivity of 10
(incl. %
                TEUs/hour and 10 days dwell time or less
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Minimum ICAO air navigation safety international standards met.
Value
                ICAO standards are not ICAO standards
quantitative or                                                                 Fully achieved.
                met.                        are not met.
Qualitative)


                                                iii
Date achieved     11/07/2006                12/01/2006                          09/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Strategic port and aviation framework formulated.
Value
                  No comprehensive sector No comprehensive
quantitative or                                                                  Dropped
                  strategies.             sector strategies.
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/07/2006                  12/01/2006                     04/22/2008
                  Development of strategic framework for the two sub-sectors became redundant
Comments
                  as the Government, under Bank funding through the Bank supported AIDP
(incl. %
                  started developing a comprehensive National Transport Policy comprising of
achievement)
                  strategies, action plans and an investment framework.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally          Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised           Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target         Completion or
                                                documents)         Values          Target Years
                The port entrance and basin are brought to the required depth for the vessels
Indicator 1 : calling without risk of grounding: channel width of 150 meters; channel depth of
                Channel Depth of 11 meters
Value           Rapid channel silting      Rapid channel                        Fully achieved.
quantitative or threatens closure of       silting threatens                    Dredging
Qualitative)    channel.                   closure of channel.                  completed.
Date achieved 11/07/2006                   12/01/2006                           09/30/2010
Comments
                 Activity quantum increased due to additional dredging volumes resulting in cost
(incl. %
                overrun.
achievement)
                The import of the basic fuel categories (heavy oil, gas oil, gasoline and jet fuel) is
Indicator 2 : taking place under safe and secure conditions: oil jetty structure refurbished
                including construction of new off-load station, mooring dolphins, walkways
Value                                      Oil jetty is
                Oil jetty is deteriorated
quantitative or                            deteriorated and                     Dropped
                and can collapse.
Qualitative)                               can collapse.
Date achieved 11/07/2006                   12/01/2006                           04/22/2008
Comments
                This activity was dropped due to project cost overrun The re-allocation of grant
(incl. %
                proceeds were approved in April 2008.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Capacity to combat large fires restored (at the Port of Monrovia).
Value                                      Firefighting
                Firefighting capacity does
quantitative or                            capacity does not                    Dropped
                not exist.
Qualitative)                               exist.
Date achieved 11/07/2006                   12/01/2006                           04/22/2008
Comments
                This activity was dropped due to cost overruns in the port dredging contract. The
(incl. %
                grant proceeds were re-allocated in April 2008
achievement)

                                                 iv
                Container terminal contract in place: Average annual crane productivity of 10
Indicator 4 :
                TEUs/hour and 10 days dwell time or less
                                                                             Achieved through
Value
                                                                             Private concession
quantitative or 3 moves per hour.          3 moves per hour.
                                                                             in place since
Qualitative)
                                                                             February 2011.
Date achieved 11/07/2006                   12/01/2006                        09/30/2010
Comments
                 Container terminal contract in place: Average annual crane productivity of 10
(incl. %
                TEUs/hour and 10 days dwell time or less
achievement)
                Airfield Ground Lighting (AGL) for runway and taxiway in place and
Indicator 5 : Instrumental Landing System (ILS) for instrumental and precision approach is
                fully calibrated and operational
Value
                ICAO standards are not ICAO standards
quantitative or                                                              Fully achieved.
                met.                       are not met.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/07/2006                   12/01/2006                        09/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Improved technical capacity by a core of SIU/MPW, NPA and RIA senior staff
Indicator 6 : and understanding of principal Bank policies and procedures

Value
quantitative or \No information.                                             Partially acheived.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/07/2006                  12/01/2006                        09/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %        Hiring of Environment and Port Engineers did not materialize
achievement)
                Government decision on strategic direction and reform of port and aviation
Indicator 7 :
                sectors
Value
quantitative or                                                             Dropped
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                               04/22/2008
Comments
(incl. %        This activity was undertaken under IDA funded AIDP.
achievement)
Indicator 8 : Fully staffed and operational SIU at MPW and PFMU at MOF
Value
quantitative or N/A                                                         Achieved.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/07/2006                                                    04/22/08
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 9 : The SIU manages LIRP activities in conformance with legal and fiduciary

                                               v
                requirements, as stated in the Grant Agreement
Value
quantitative or N/A                                                           Partially achieved.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/07/06                                                        09/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %        Compliance to Project covenant on aircraft liability insurance was not successful.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                             DO                            IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     12/22/2006           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     03/25/2007           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.50
  3     11/29/2007           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     8.21
  4     05/29/2008           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     8.36
  5     12/16/2008           Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory              8.50
  6     06/24/2009           Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory              8.50
  7     12/08/2009           Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory              8.50
  8     06/10/2010           Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory              8.50

H. Restructuring (if any)
There was no formal restructuring of the Project done, except for the re-allocation of
categories in April 2008, and the final figures after the closing on September 30, 2010.


I. Disbursement Profile




                                                .



                                                vi
1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.     Post conflict Bank’s re-engagement plan in Liberia focused on three priority areas:
economic management; infrastructure rehabilitation; and community-based development.
The Bank’s strategy envisaged financing from both the Low Income Countries under Stress
(LICUS) Trust Fund and a grant from the Bank’s surplus. Subsequently, the Board of
Governors of the Bank approved the transfer from surplus to a Trust Fund for Liberia
(TFLIB) in the amount of US$25 million as a grant to be administered by IDA. Out of the
$25 million, an amount of $8.5 million was allocated towards this project.

2.      The strategic goal for the Bank’s engagement under this project was to assist in the
process of peaceful economic recovery of Liberia. The project contributed by rebuilding
shattered infrastructure in two high priority sub-sectors; port and air transport. Improved
safety of operations and refurbished facilities at the Port of Monrovia and Roberts
International Airport (RIA) helped safeguard the fragile peace and order, and assisted in
attracting private operators for business in Liberia.

3.      This project built on the work carried out under the Infrastructure Rehabilitation
Technical Assistance (TA) Project financed under the TFLIB. The TA financed the technical
assessment of the Port of Monrovia with the aim of identifying emergency works and actions
to bring operations to acceptable levels. The assessment concluded that immediate
intervention was needed to rehabilitate the infrastructure in order to keep the port operational.
Identified emergency works were in the range of US$40 million, of which this project
proposed to support critical repairs at about US$7.0 million in the Port and Airport sub-
sectors with an overall project cost of US$8.5 million.

1.1    Context at Appraisal

4.      Liberia was close to middle-income threshold before the economic collapse and the
start of civil strife in the 1980s. During the years of conflict, the country experienced a
significant decline in living standards and is currently one of Africa's poorest nations. The
peace agreement and the subsequent stability, resulting in the successful inauguration of a
newly elected Government in January 2006, offered Liberia a unique opportunity to rebuild
its shattered economy and to establish a stable and democratic society. The new
administration was assured continued support of the United Nations and other development
partners in maintaining security and assisting the Government of Liberia (GOL) in the
restoration of basic services, infrastructure and good governance. However, the challenges
were immense.

5.      The case for the Bank involvement in Liberia at that time was compelling. Following
nearly three years of peace and with a newly democratically-elected Government in place,
the ground had been prepared for reconstruction and recovery. To build a functioning
economy and to restore the livelihood of the country's population, Liberia's new Government
relied on an adequate response from the donor community both in terms of expertise and
finance. In addition, peace provided a window of opportunity for the Bank to rebuild its




                                               1
knowledge base and understanding of national partner institutions, both of which were
essential to increase readiness for a Bank lending program when that became possible.

6.      The activities completed under the project built on the TFLIB-financed infrastructure
feasibility studies that provided technical assessments of the Port of Monrovia and the RIA in
Monrovia. The studies identified emergency works and developed bidding documents which
were shared with donors. The project helped the GOL both to mobilize resources from other
donors and to coordinate various inputs and contributions. Such coordination was essential in
assisting the Government while they established and coherently managed the overall
reconstruction program.

7.      Immediate emergency investments at the Port of Monrovia and RIA were critical.
Given the dilapidated condition of the port structures, it was reasonable to expect system,
facility or equipment failures or collapse to occur at any given time. The port being the
supply line of the country both in terms of food and fuel, any disruption in the port services
would have led to increased commodity prices (especially of rice and fuel) and, thus,
jeopardized stability. The great urgency of refurbishment and repair at the airport stemmed
from the fact that safety standards were so heavily compromised that passenger safety was at
risk.

8.      The project also incorporated the lessons learned by engaging the Government in a
sector policy dialogue (TA component). The objective was to initiate a longer-term process
of policy formulation for the transport sector following review of the institutional framework,
supporting legal instruments, sources of funding for capital investments and financing of
recurrent costs. The project also drew on lessons learned in recent post-conflict countries,
namely that harnessing and developing a concentration of implementation competencies
through a consolidated Project Management Unit (PMU) for multiple projects could be
highly effective.

9.     Given the Bank's comparative advantage in the infrastructure sector and the fact that
no other major donor had immediate plans to invest significant funds in the repair of the port
and the airport, the Bank's involvement was timely. The funds had enormous and immediate
impact and helped prevent further social and economic destruction.

1.2    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

10.     The objective of the project as presented in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
was to provide Government with emergency support to restore priority infrastructure in the
Port of Monrovia and at Roberts International Airport and assist the Government in
developing a medium-term strategic framework for rehabilitating the port and aviation
sectors.

11.    The successful implementation of the project was to be evidenced by:

       (a)   Identified civil works implemented,
       (b)   Institutional capacity strengthened, and



                                              2
       (c)   Government has developed a strategic framework for port and aviation sector.

12.    The key indicators for achievement of the Project development objectives, were
defined in the results framework for the project as follows:

       (a)   Continued, safe and reliable service provision via the target infrastructure:
             (i) Access to the Port of Monrovia was preserved: vessels with 10.5 meters
                   draft or less could enter port;
             (ii) Oil jetty strengthened, fully operational and safe with vessel discharging
                   capacity of up to 30,000 dwt;
             (iii) Firefighting capacity at the Port of Monrovia established;
             (iv) Efficient and reliable containers handling service: Minimum 10 moves per
                   hour and 10 days dwell time or less; and
             (v) Minimum International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) air navigation
                   safety international standards met.

       (b)     Strategic port and aviation framework formulated.

13.     To fulfill achievement of the project components, the following intermediate results
indicators were defined for each component.

Component A: Infrastructure Rehabilitation
 (a) Port: The port entrance and basin are brought to the required depth for the vessels
     calling without risk of grounding; channel width of 150 meters; Channel Depth (CD)
     of 11 meters.
 (b) The import of the basic fuel categories (heavy oil, gas oil, and gasoline and jet fuel) is
     taking place under safe and secure conditions: oil jetty structure refurbished including
     construction of new off-load station, mooring dolphins, and walkways.
 (c) Capacity to combat large fires restored.
 (d) Container terminal contract in place: Average annual crane productivity of 10 twenty-
     foot equivalent units (TEUs) per hour and 10 days dwell time or less.
 (e) Airport: Airfield Ground Lighting (AGL) for runway and taxiway in place and
     Instrumental Landing System (ILS) for instrumental and precision approach are fully
     calibrated and operational.
Component B: Technical Assistance and Capacity Building
 (a) Improved technical capacity by a core of Special Implementation Unit/Ministry of
     Public Works (SIU/MPW), National Ports Authority (NPA) and RIA senior staff and
     understanding of principal Bank policies and procedures.
 (b) Government decision on strategic direction and reform of port and aviation sectors.
Component C: Project Management
 (a) Fully staffed and operational SIU at MPW and Project Financial Management Unit
     (PFMU) at Ministry of Finance (MOF).
 (b) The SIU manages the Liberia Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project (LIRP) activities in
     conformance with legal and fiduciary requirements, as stated in the Grant Agreement.




                                              3
1.3    Revised Project Development Objectives and Key Performance Indicators

14.     The original objectives remained unchanged throughout the project's duration. During
implementation, some project activities were dropped on account of budget constraints. No
formal restructuring of the project was attempted while such dropped components were
immediately brought under other projects under preparation. Apparently, common
interpretation by all stakeholders of the applicable procedures governing IDA funded
Recipient Executed Trust Fund informed team’s choice to reallocate funds across categories
in April 2008 as sufficient measure. However, key Performance Indicators remain
unchanged.

1.4    Main Beneficiaries
15.     The project beneficiaries (as envisaged under the Project) may be categorized into
two distinct groups (direct and indirect) in the subsectors of marine transport and civil
aviation that infringed on issues of safety, security, and stability in a country that was
characterized as a fragile post-conflict environment.

16.     Direct Beneficiaries. Direct beneficiaries groups who participated directly in the
project, and thus benefit from its existence were: (i) Maritime sub-sector vis-à-vis the
dredging at the Port of Monrovia; (ii) civil aviation sub-sector in relation to the safety
equipment at RIA; and (iii) the sector Institutions with regard to the capacity building of the
SIU (MPW), NPA, and RIA. Thus all persons who were employed by the Project, supplied
with raw materials or other goods and services, or who used in some way the output of the
Project were direct beneficiaries in the above three groups.

17.     Indirect Beneficiaries. Indirect beneficiaries were the people of Liberia invariably as
the strategic goal for the Bank’s engagement was to assist in the process of peaceful
economic recovery. The project support in improving safety of operations at the Port of
Monrovia and RIA helped the Government safeguard peace and order, and further assisted in
attracting private operators for business in Liberia.

18.    During the war, all ministries and Government agencies had lost official data and
documentation. The offices were looted bare and there was no equipment left. The
Government capacity to function was dependent on supply of basic office equipment and
vehicles, and training for its staff. The project contributed, therefore, in helping to rebuild
some lost institutional capacity in post-conflict Liberia.

1.5    Original Components

19.      The project built upon the work carried out under the Infrastructure Rehabilitation
Technical Assistance Project financed by Trust Fund for Liberia (TFLIB), which identified
critical emergency works in the transport sector in the amount exceeding US$40 million. The
proposed activities under this project included the most critical emergency works so
identified in the port and airport sub-sectors in the amount of US$8.5 million.




                                              4
20.     The project was structured into the following three major components which were
further subdivided as per the details below.

Component A: Infrastructure Rehabilitation (US$7.70 million)

21.     Component A provided financing for rehabilitating the infrastructure at the port of
Monrovia through: (a) dredging the entrance channel to the Port; (b) upgrading the oil jetty
and introducing safety measures; and (c) strengthening the NPA’s firefighting capacity.

22.     The port works for the project were selected in consultation with NPA and later at a
workshop with stakeholders. The guiding principle for the selection of work at the port was
that: (a) ships would be able to call at the port under minimal conditions of safety; and (b)
major commodities required by the country (food and fuel) could continue to be handled.

23.     The component also provided financing for rehabilitating the infrastructure at the
RIA, through the supply and installation of navigational, aeronautical, meteorological and
security equipment. The airport emergency needs were based on the findings and
recommendations of the TFLIB Technical Assessment Report. This report had examined the
existing safety and security equipment at RIA – the air gateway to Liberia to bring it up to
the ICAO’s minimum operational standards for airports.

24.    Cost estimates of civil works at the port were formulated and presented as low and
high range on the basis of Rough-Order-Magnitude (ROM), and on the basis of those
estimates, it was decided that the following sub-projects could be tendered under the
Component A.
       (a)   A1 - Monrovia Port: Dredging (US$2.20 million)
       (b)   A2 - Monrovia Port: Upgrading Oil Jetty (US$2.75 million)
       (c)   A3 - Monrovia Port: Providing Fire Fighting Capacity at NPA Yard (US$2.15
             million)
       (d)   A4 - Roberts International Airport: Navigational, aeronautical, meteorological
             and security equipment (US$0.60 million)
25.    The bid prices from the tendering of these works and goods, particularly the port
dredging, came in far higher than estimates envisioned. This can partly be attributed to the
uncertain nature of operations in a post-conflict environment and consequential high degree
of variability about cost estimates. In addition, the dredging capacity in West and Central
Africa by the time of tendering had tightened considerably because of the loss of a dredger in
Nigeria. As dredging was the top priority of the NPA at the time, eventual contracting was
undertaken for components A1 and A4 only, while upgrading of oil jetty was eventually
captured under a follow on project (Urban and Rural Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project -
URIRP). Provision of firefighting capacity at NPA yard was folded into eventual Public-
Private-Partnership (PPP) transaction at the port.




                                              5
Component B: Technical Assistance and Capacity Building (US$0.15 million)

26.    This component envisaged provision of a selective and ad-hoc technical assistance to
the Government, including support to develop a medium term strategic framework for the
port and aviation sectors, as well as targeted training in NPA and RIA to complement
normalization of operations. The Project proposed to assist NPA in bringing about a
container terminal/handling concession and also to support NPA for tendering a marine or
towage service contract, if required.

Component C: Project Management (US$0.65 million)

27.    This component was designed to support implementation capacity augmentation
through a SIU at the MPW to provide coordination, procurement, monitoring and evaluation,
and safeguards management. Financial management was supported under this component
through a separate Project Financial Management Unit (PFMU) residing at the MOF. These
arrangements were made jointly with another Bank project, the Emergency Infrastructure
Project (EIP) that was approved by Bank prior to the LIRP and was in parallel
implementation.

1.6    Revised Components

28.     The project components were revised through re-allocation by scaling-up/down and
dropping the sub-activities due to cost overruns. No formal restructuring of the project was
undertaken. Apparently, this was done following an advice received by the team that the
project, being funded by TFLIB, may not require a formal restructuring.

                               Table 1: Revised Components
 Component A: Infrastructure Rehabilitation                              Re-allocated
  A1. Monrovia Port: Dredging                                              Scaled-up
  A2. Monrovia Port: Upgrading Oil Jetty                                    Dropped
  A3. Monrovia Port: Providing Fire Fighting Capacity at NPA Yard           Dropped
  A4. Roberts International Airport: Navigational, aeronautical,           No change
  meteorological and security equipment
 Component B: Technical Assistance and Capacity Building                 Re-allocated
 Component C: Project Management                                         Re-allocated


29.     Component A. Changes had to be made in the works identified under Component A
above as envisaged during Project preparation when estimates were adopted on the basis of
Rough-Order-Magnitude (ROM) [which has relatively large margin of error of
approximately 30-35 percent]. Consequently, when the actual bids came in for the dredging
works (sub-component A1), almost 92 percent of the Grant funds had to be directed to cover
the contract sum of the highest priority, the dredging needs in the entrance channel to the
Port of Monrovia.

30.     Component A successfully addressed the first priority intervention in the airport sub-
sector at RIA with provision for supply and installation of various navigational, aeronautical,


                                              6
meteorological and security equipment, including grounding and lightning protection system,
runway and taxiway edge lighting, provision for calibrating, and aeronautical and
meteorological equipment.

31.     The significantly higher than expected costs of dredging and unavailability at the time
of additional funding, resulted in need to drop other activities, namely: Component B (TA
and Capacity Building) and two subcomponents of A (Upgrading Oil Jetty and Providing
Firefighting capacity in NPA yard).

32.    Component B. The development of a strategic framework under component B for the
two sub-sectors became redundant as the Government, under separate Bank funding through
the Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project (AIDP), started developing a
comprehensive National Transport Policy comprising of strategies, action plans and an
investment framework.

33.     Component C. Activities under Component C were also scaled down as the proposed
selection of a port and an environmental engineer did not materialize and they were deferred
to the next Bank supported project, AIDP, due to shortage of funding. Furthermore, the
proposed hiring of a consultant for supervision of the installation works at RIA did not
materialize because the selection processes for firms and later for individual specialist
consultants both failed in terms of an effective response.

1.7    Other significant changes

34.     Resulting Reallocation in Payment Categories. The resulting changes due to above
variations led to a reallocation in payment categories under this project that are summarized
in Table 2 below.

                           Table 2: Project Costs by Categories

                                        Original     Reallocation       Actual       Percentage
                                       Allocation     (04/22/08)       Disbursed     of revised
Category     Category Description         US$            US$             US$         allocation
  (A)      Consultant Services        1,435,000.00     182,000.00       215,618.27    118.5%
  (B)      Training                      40,000.00               0               0
  (C)      Goods                        150,000.00     511,000.00       479,492.08    93.8%
  (D)      Works                      6,700,000.00   7,787,000.00     7,784,571.45    100.0%
  (E)      Operating costs              175,000.00      20,000.00        20,274.72    101.4%
           Cancelled as on Jan
           31,2011                    -            -                        -43.48
           Total                      8,500,000.00 8,500,000.00       8,499,913.04    100.0%




                                              7
2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1    Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

35.     The project design was moderately ambitious and implementation was affected due to
the low level of capacity and post-conflict environment. This was one of the first projects
after Bank’s re-engagement in Liberia. The project used the prioritized list of emergency
works in the transport sector (of about US$ 70 million), developed under Infrastructure
Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project financed TFLIB) The cost estimates were
formulated as low and high range on the basis of Rough-Order-Magnitude (ROM). The three
cost estimates for port works used in the project were the average cost estimate for each.
PAD specifically noted that as a result of high degree of uncertainty, the plan was to
determine during procurement for the works whether the Grant is actually sufficient for all
activities and, if not, what specific scaling-down will be needed. However, there was no
contingency provision for contingency for cost overrun during bidding. Nevertheless, in view
of limited available funding and by already having recognized a potential for cost-overruns
during Project design, the Bank team could have avoided over commitment in Project
component design, such as the upgrading of the Oil Jetty and Fire-fighting capacity sub-
components.

36.     This project was prepared simultaneously with another project- Emergency
Infrastructure Project. Both projects sought to rehabilitate only most critical priority
infrastructure (identified in TFLIB funded technical assessment study) to ensure that
minimum levels of operations of basic services continue uninterrupted. Though, underlying
risks of operating in a post conflict fragile state are not easy to be fully mitigated, the project
did reasonably well to complete the activities to the extent of available funding and left out
activities were immediately brought under successive Bank financed projects (AIDP and
URIRP) in Liberia.

37.    At the time of preparation of this project, the Bank along with other donors was
supporting the Governance and Economic Management Assistance Program (GEMAP),
which aimed at restoring government’s basic financial management and to address long-term
governance problems. The project leveraged the technical assistance provided under GEMAP
to the port (an external CFO and later port operational specialist) .The LIRP had a longer
term horizon development of a port strategic framework (later overtaken by more radical
IDA support to comprehensively reform the port sector).

38.     Instead of attempting third party execution through United Nations Office for Project
Services (UNOPS), the project chose to build institutional and client capacity to handle major
infrastructure works by utilizing the emerging capacity at the MPW. The setups so created
under this project (SIU and PFMU) were later used by successive IDA projects. This also
potentially ended up in significant direct project implementation cost savings.

39.    Quality at Entry: No quality at entry assessment of the project was carried out by the
Quality Assurance Group.




                                                8
2.2     Implementation

40.     Analysis of the Dredging Works Contract, Component A1. Due to cost overruns, the
only main infrastructure works undertaken in the port were for the dredging of the entrance
channel to the Port of Monrovia. The cost of this contract had been affected by: (a) cost
overruns- almost three-times above the estimate prices, (b) increased volume of dredging
work which had to be done to ensure a successful clearance of the port channel, and, (c) the
declining value of the US dollar against the Euro, which was the currency of payment as per
the contract. On the other hand, supervision services cost for the works were only a fraction
of the original allocation due to faster completion against the initially estimated dredging
completion time.

41.     From a navigational safety point of view, it was absolutely necessary to maintain an
entrance channel width of 150 meters with an 11 meter draft. Based on bathymetric survey
results, this requirement was not met at the time of intervention; the channel width was less
than 100 meters at that draft. The estimated dredging quantity associated with this
navigational requirement was in the order of 500,000 m3, including dredging of part of the
port basin. During the procurement of this work, only two bids were received and one was
late (and hence had to be rejected). The bid was priced at almost three-times higher than the
original estimates. The design consultant had estimated rate of US$4.0 per m3 while lowest
evaluated bidder’s price was US$ 7.24 per m3 for dredging and disposing at a distance of 5
km.

42.    There were several possible reasons for such high bid(s) and overall low participation
in tender: (a) limited number of qualified and specialized dredging contractors, especially
those working in Africa at the time, which could bid for the dredging contract, and execute
the works within the specified time frame. During tendering, a major dredger sank in Nigeria
thus creating in the region a sudden demand spike for dredging capacity in the region that
exceeded supply, (b) more importantly, the bidders priced the perceived risk and
uncertainties of working in a post conflict state very high; (c) engineering design unit rates
for a post-conflict country environment were under-estimated. These unit rates lacked
appreciation, recognition and accommodation of the influence of perceived risks and
uncertainties;

43.     The Bank team sought review and clearance of the one evaluated bid by the Bank’s
Regional Procurement Management (RPM) on the premise that those were emergency works
(the port entry channel was close to silting up) and that there was a need to rapidly dredge.
Upon clearance of the RPM, contract was awarded at a base value of US$6,091,127 and was
signed on April 9, 2007. During contract negotiations a five percent discount was agreed on
unit rate for quantities exceeding 500,000m3 on the bid rate of US$7.24 per m3 for a disposal
distance of 5 km. There was then a variation in the actual volume dredged (637,663 m3 – an
increase of 28 percent) based on the design and to a dredging depth of 11 meters which led to
a 16 percent increase in the final contract value paid US$7,064,787.14. The net increase in
cost due to dredging quantity variation and currency fluctuation under this contract was to the
tune of almost 27 percent when compared to the original bid price. This final status of
payments made under this contract is presented in Table 3.



                                              9
44.     The commencement date of the contract was May 14, 2007. The initial time of
completion was 120-days, but the contract was actually satisfactorily completed on July 3,
2007 almost two months ahead of schedule. As a result, most of disbursement against the
project was completed in 2007.


     Table 3: Final Status of Payments on Dredging Works Contract - Component A1
                                                        Equivalent US$ based
                                                        on the fixed Exchange       US$ equivalent based
                                  Amount paid in
     WA Ref      Value Date                                       rate              on the ex- rate as on
                                     Euro
                                                                                     date of transaction*
                                                          (1 US$ = 0.78 Euro)

    IRP-MOF-2    14-May-07           950,215.80               1,218,225.38                 1,285,641.98

    IRP-MOF-3     18-Jul-07        1,660,436.00               2,128,764.10                 2,288,578.94

    IRP-MOF-4     17-Oct-07        2,641,412.95               3,386,426.86                 3,757,938.20

    IRP-MOF-5     9-Nov-07           258,469.22                 331,370.79                   380,466.69
       Total                       5,510,533.97               7,064,787.14                 7,712,625.81
[*] – Figures taken from client connection

45.     Supply and Installation Works for the RIA, Goods and Equipment contract: This
contract comprised six components1: On April 20, 2007, one single bid was received. After
evaluation, a seven-month duration contract was signed on July 10, 2007 at a contract value
of US$493,968.64, which was delivered on May 19, 2008 (delayed by three months). A
technical audit of the contract, conducted in August 2010, found that though equipment was
delivered – but that, base plates for the runway lights, did not match specifications. In
summary, all except one element (Runway Lighting) of the contract were successfully
completed.

46.     The implementation of project management component yielded mixed results. The
SIU and PFMU (which was set up in parallel under EIP) were operationlised. The project did
well to separate financial management responsibility on to separate unit; an arrangement that
continues to perform satisfactorily to date. The proposed works supervision for the upgrading
of the Free Port Oil Jetty did not materialize as procurement of works failed. Furthermore,
the proposed selection of a port and an environmental engineer did not materialize because
they were deferred to the next Bank supported AIDP due to a shortage of funding. In
addition, the selection of the consultant for the supply and installation of the RIA works also


1
  Six components were: (i) an Automated Weather Observation System; (ii) a voice recorder; (iii) a hold
luggage and a hand baggage x-ray scanner, two walk-through metal detectors; (iv) taxiway markers; (v) airfield
lighting (runway threshold/end and runway edge lights); and (vi) the calibration of the already existing
ILS/Distance Measuring Equipment (DME) and Doppler VHF Omnidirectional Radio (DVOR)




                                                     10
produced significant delays because of the difficulties the Project encountered in accessing
the services of a firm with the right qualifications to undertake the supervision of the
installation works.

47.     The significantly higher than expected costs of dredging resulted in need to drop
other activities, namely: Component B (TA and Capacity Building) and two subcomponents
of A (Upgrading Oil Jetty and Providing Firefighting capacity in NPA yard). With few
activities under the project, choices were limited in light of unanticipated cost escalation.
Nevertheless, Component B was dropped because at the time there were strong indications
(which eventually became reality) that IDA and the team would through other, newer
projects, be able to achieve substantial restructuring of the port sector, thus supersede the
objectives of component B; also, provision of firefighting capacity in the NPA yard became
included as part of a IDA assisted PPP terminal concession. Thus, two activities dropped
were actually pursued and achieved, but under other IDA funded project being implemented
at the time. Upgrading of oil facility, another urgent activity, was later picked up under
URIRP.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

48.    The M&E was rated as unsatisfactory during the project.

49.    M&E Design. The Project defined the PDO and key indicators separately for all three
components with baseline status for each result indicator documented in the PAD. The SIU
was given the responsibility for developing the M&E system for the Project. This consisted
of preparation of the results framework and the subsequent monitoring and reporting of
Project results and performance, based on the framework. However, no baseline surveys
were designed or completed for results monitoring. The M&E requirements were thus
expected to be met by selecting necessary Project indicators and baselines from the TFLIB
financed feasibility studies. The arrangements made for results monitoring are presented in
Table 4.

50.    M&E Implementation. The SIU continued to struggle during the implementation of
the Project to provide adequate reporting on indicators as outlined in the results framework.
This was mainly due to lack of adequate and formalized coordination mechanism between
the Implementing Agency (the SIU) and counterpart Government entities managing or
responsible in the Port and RIA. The rescaling of activities under the project (due to cost
overruns) also resulted in setbacks to formalize any effective system for M&E
Implementation.

51.     M&E Utilization. At Project completion, the M&E system could not be established
due to inability to hire adequate staff at SIU, and lack of SIU oversight on some activities.
Project monitoring in the port sector remained supported by regular reporting from the
supervision consultant; however, it remained an ad hoc for airport activities. Nevertheless,
the framework developed in the project facilitated downstream Bank Project preparation and
capacity development initiatives for the SIU (now the Infrastructure Implementation Unit
(IIU)).



                                             11
2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
52.    Environmental Safeguards. Safeguard policies triggered by the Project included only
OP/BP/GP 4.01 – Environmental Assessment. The Project was in Category B for
environmental assessment. The Provisional Environmental Impact Assessment (pEIA) and
an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) were prepared as parts of the technical
assessment report and subsequently disclosed as a free-standing document.

                   Table 4: Arrangements for Results Monitoring at Project Start

Outcome Indicators          Baseline/Cu    Frequency of Monitoring       Frequency    Data             Responsibi
                            rrent Status                                 and          Collection       lity for
                                           2007   2008     2009   2010
                                                                         Reports      Instruments      Data
                                                                                                       Collection
Continued, safe and
reliable service
provision via the target
infrastructure:

a) Access to the Port of    Rapid          X      X        X      X      Annual       Bathymetric      NPA
Monrovia is preserved:      channel                                      Reports      survey
vessels with 10.5 m         silting                                      and end-of
draft or less can enter     threatens                                    Project
port                        closure of                                   Report
                            channel

b) Oil jetty structure is   Oil jetty is   -      X        X      X      End-of       Certificate of   NPA/
strengthened, fully         deteriorated                                 project      works            LPRC
operational and safe:       and can                                      report
tankers up to 30,000        collapse
dwt can discharge

c) Firefighting capacity    Firefighting   -      -        X      X      End-of       Hydrants and     NPA
at the Port of Monrovia:    capacity                                     project      system
established.                does not                                     report       performance
                            exist                                                     tests

d) Efficient and reliable   3 moves/       -      X        X      X      Yearly       As per           NPA
containers handling         hour                                         NPA          Contract
service: Minimum 10                                                      reports      provisions
moves per hour and 10
days dwell time or less

e) Minimum ICAO air
navigation safety           ICAO           X      X        X      X      End-of       ICAO audit       SIU
international standards     standards                                    project      when due
– met.                      not met                                      report


f) Strategic port and       No             -      X        X      X      End-of       Collaboration    SIU
aviation framework          comprehensi                                  project      with IDA
formulated                  ve sector                                    report
                            strategies



                                                      12
53.     The project provided substantial positive environmental impacts. At the airport,
refurbishment and replacement of equipment for navigation, safety and security had a
positive impact on safety for the airport workforce, airline personnel, passengers, and nearby
residents. No adverse impacts were anticipated or reported on investments at the airport.
Within the port, the works to improve access to the harbor contributed to reduced risk of
accidents (including ship groundings) and spills.

54.     The pEIA included in the technical assessment for the port had identified potential
adverse impacts and categorized them as minor, moderate, and major, based on magnitude,
probability of occurrence, and sensitivity of receptor or affected area. An EMP was included
in the assessment, and the impacts were re-rated assuming EMP implementation. Following
that analysis, the only major impact was diversion of land for dredge spoil disposal if a land-
based disposal method were to be chosen. The pEIA recommended a more detailed impact
assessment for dredge spoil disposal prior to selection of a disposal site and method, and this
was carried out in two steps. The first was analysis of the material to be dredged in order to
determine whether it was suitable for sea disposal or would have to be impounded on land.
Samples were collected at three depths at each of 20 locations and analyzed in the
Netherlands at a laboratory certified to conform to European Union standard EN 4500.
Concentrations of metals and other substances potentially harmful to marine life were found
to be within the limits, for safe disposal at sea, promulgated by the Government of the
Netherlands (there being no appropriate standards in effect in Liberia). Two potential sea
disposal sites were then identified; depth and distance from the port were the main criteria
used in their identification.

55.     Both sites were surveyed for depth and contour using side-looking sonar equipment
and then inspected visually and photographically by divers. The survey did not reveal any
sensitive environmental features at either site, such as coral reefs and sea grass beds, shellfish
beds, and fish spawning grounds. Bidding documents for the dredging required the contractor
to conduct a more detailed physical and biological survey of the disposal site and to prepare a
detailed Health, Safety, Environment and Social (HSES) Plan prior to commencement of
work. The HSES Plan was reviewed and approved by the supervising engineer. The
contractor’s selection of one of the two pre-surveyed disposal sites was approved by the
engineer and GOL, the detailed surveys were performed, and the dredging and disposal
proceeded with no significant environmental problems.

56.    Other potentially moderate impacts of work at the port, such as improper solid waste
disposal, disturbance of surrounding commercial activities, water pollution due to fuel spills
and turbidity from dredging or soil erosion, and occupational health and safety hazards to the
workforce were managed well through the contractor’s HSES Plan.

57.    Financial Management. The PFMU was staffed with a combination of competent
MOF staff and selected technical assistance and managed by a competent full-time manager.
The PFMU was responsible for: (a) ensuring that financial and accounting records were
maintained to a satisfactory manner; and (b) ensuring that financial statements and reports




                                               13
were prepared in timely manner for management and audit purposes. There was full
compliance of these requirements throughout the Project.

58.     Procurement. Given the urgent nature of the Project and the need to start construction
works as soon as feasible, some preliminary procurement steps concerning the procurement
of design consultant for the dredging contract commenced prior to the planned approval of
the Project. The Government had very limited capacity to undertake those initial tasks even
though the SIU completed hiring of technical staff from the MPW and selected technical
assistance. As such, the SIU was supported by the task team during the initial process.

59.     Legal Covenants. There were two legal covenants under the Project: (a) the
Government with support from the Bank would tender through a competitive and transparent
process a Container Terminal Contract in the Port of Monrovia no later than by end of April
2007; and (b) the Government would ensure that RIA carries third party liability/aircraft
insurance. Procurement for the benefit of RIA was contingent on the insurance being in
place. Later on, the Bank's Audit identified that there was no evidence in support of the
aircraft liability insurance coverage though the contractor was paid for it (more details in
section 3.3 of this report).

2.5       Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

60.    Lessons learned from LIRP have already been used both in the design of new Bank
transport sector projects and also to further strengthen the capacity of PFMU and the SIU.
The later was transitioned into an IIU in 2009 and will eventually evolve into an autonomous
Roads Authority for Liberia. The AIDP and the URIRP were prepared as Bank Grants with
co-financing by the European Commission (EC) and the Liberia Reconstruction Trust Fund
(LRTF) in 2007 and 2009 respectively, and the Liberia Road Asset Management Project
(LIBRAMP) was prepared and approved in June 2011 as an International Development
Association (IDA) credit co-financed by the LRTF grant. The civil works component for
upgrading the Oil Jetty that could not be delivered under LIRP was subsequently picked up
under the URIRP as new Fuel Unloading Facility2.

3.        Assessment of Outcomes

3.1       Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: High for Overall Relevance

61.    Strategic country relevance of the Project. The project was designed in line with the
Bank's re-engagement strategy articulated in the Country Re-engagement Note for Liberia3,



2
    The contract, based on design and build methodology, was signed on October 29, 2012.
3
    IDA/R2004-0046, Liberia: Country Re-Engagement Note and Additional Activities, March 3, 2004.



                                                14
which outlined a leadership role for the Bank in the infrastructure sector. The project was
also in line with the expressed request of the then newly and democratically elected
Government for Bank’s support in the emergency rehabilitation of critical infrastructure
nodes. The Project further built upon the work financed by the TFLIB – the preparation of
technical feasibility studies which had prioritized emergency works in key infrastructure sub-
sectors – the existence of these studies greatly facilitated the preparation of this operation.

62.     Activities under this Project focused on the most critical emergency works in the port
and aviation sub-sectors in the amount of US$8.5 million. Though small in magnitude, the
Project impact allowed a programmatic approach to take shape in the Bank’s infrastructure
portfolio in Liberia. It was further expected that other partners would come together to
provide financing for the remaining priority infrastructure needs. This was realized through
EC co-financing of Euros 10 million in the next Bank Project under AIDP, and the
establishment of the LRTF, which continues to co-finance major road sector improvements
in Liberia; the LRTF is administered by the World Bank.

63.      Relevance to Bank sector strategies. The Project objectives, design and
implementation proved relevant to current country priorities and the Bank’s sector strategy as
this Project addressed the strategic goal to assist in the process of peaceful economic
recovery, and contributed by rebuilding shattered infrastructure in two high priority transport
sub-sectors for improved facilitation of freight and services. Improving safety of operations
and refurbishing facilities at the Port of Monrovia and airport supported the peace and
stability initiatives, and assisted in attracting private sector operators for business in Liberia.
In principle, the Project triggered the two state owned enterprises namely, National Port
Authority and the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) to advance their potential financial
position and to attract private sector once their technical and commercial performance
improve over time.

64.      The two transport sub-sectors, marine transport and civil aviation, infringe on issues
of safety, security, and stability in a country still characterized as a fragile post-conflict
environment. As such, repair of critical infrastructure at the port and the airport were
declared a top priority of the new Government due to its direct impact on safety (airport),
stability and long-term peace (port). Civil war and international sanctions had severely
disrupted port operations while extensive looting had rendered most of the facilities useless.
Nearly 100 percent of the dry-bulk and containers trade was being handled through the Port
of Monrovia. In addition, the fuel jetty was responsible for 100 percent of fuel (oil, gasoline
and jet fuel) imports. Given the above needs, the Port of Monrovia remains the key supply
/economic life-line of Liberia, handling nearly all imports and exports from the country. In
preparation of the LIRP and as part of the TFLIB-supported Infrastructure TA, the Bank had
financed technical assessment of the Port of Monrovia with the aim of identifying emergency
works and actions to bring operations to acceptable levels. The assessment concluded that
immediate intervention was needed to rehabilitate the infrastructure in order to keep the port
operational. Identified emergency works were in the range of US$40 million, of which this
Project proposed to support critical repairs at a cost of about US$7 million. A long-term Port
Master Plan including an assessment of the different management options to support long




                                                15
term sustainability had been separately developed for review and discussion with the
Government.

65.     The LIRP was designed to engage the Government in a sector policy dialogue. The
objective was to initiate a long-term process of deciding on policy choices for the sector to be
made after reviewing the institutional framework, supporting legal instruments, sources of
funding for capital investments and financing of recurrent costs. The project made an
attempt to draw on lessons learned in recent post-conflict countries, which supported creation
of consolidated PMUs for multiple projects as highly effective means to harness and develop
a concentration of implementation competencies in such countries.

3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives

66.     Despite delays at the beginning of the project and challenges encountered during
implementation, the Project went a long way towards meeting its objective, resulting in an
overall Moderately Satisfactory (MS) rating. The following represents the extent to which
the Trust Fund development objectives have been met.

       A.    Continued, safe and reliable service provision via the target infrastructure:
             Moderately Satisfactory (MS)
             (i) Access to the Port of Monrovia was preserved: vessels with 10.5 meters
                  draft or less could enter port. The port entrance and basin were brought to
                  the required channel width (150 meters) and channel depth (11 meters)
                  without risk of vessels grounding. Rated - Highly Satisfactory (HS).

             (ii)   Oil jetty strengthened, fully operational and safe with vessel discharging
                    capacity of up to 30,000 dwt. Due to the cost overruns, the oil jetty sub-
                    component was dropped. It was stated in Project design that rehabilitation
                    of the oil jetty civil works was of a nature that did not allow any scaling
                    down of inputs to cut costs. Effectively, to ensure a functioning oil jetty,
                    these works needed to take place in their entirety. As such, the sub-
                    component was adopted under two later projects the AIDP, and the
                    URIRP. The Oil Jetty refurbishment was first planned under AIDP and
                    then later under URIRP. The procurement of contract for building new
                    jetty is expected to be signed by end November 2012.

             (iii) Firefighting capacity at the Port of Monrovia established - due to the cost
                   overruns, this sub-component was dropped. It was stated in Project design
                   that in case of overall civil work costs being higher than anticipated, this
                   work would be scaled down – or in extreme case, cut - to fit the budget
                   and funding.

             (iv) Efficient and reliable containers handling service: Minimum 10 moves per
                  hour and 10 days dwell time or less. This activity was directly linked with
                  the Container Terminal Contract award and subsequent changes. As a
                  result of successful completion of dredging works, positive signals went



                                               16
                   out to the international private sector about the new environment evolving
                   in Liberia. The productivity has already increased to 15 moves/hr and it is
                   expected that the productivity might increase to 17 moves/hr or higher
                   once the mobile cranes are installed next year. In April 2012, the Average
                   Dwell Time (ADT) was about 15 days. In the beginning of 2013, the Free
                   Dwell Time (FDT) will be reduced from 7 to 3 days and the storage
                   charges will also increase. Worldwide experience shows that once these
                   planned measures have been taken, the ADT will decrease drastically.
                   Moderately Satisfactory (MS).

             (v)   Minimum ICAO air navigation safety international standards met –
                   Airport; The AGL for runway and taxiway were put in place and the ILS
                   for precision to the approach of the runway was fully calibrated and
                   became operational. Rated - Satisfactory (S).

       B.    Strategic port and aviation framework formulated: Development of strategic
             framework for the two sub-sectors became redundant as the Government, under
             Bank funding of the AIDP, began developing a comprehensive National
             Transport Policy comprising of strategies, action plans and an investment
             framework.

3.3     Efficiency

67.     No directly related financial or economic analyses were carried out during project
preparation and appraisal. However, the trust fund activities have been efficiently
implemented as evidenced by successful and timely accomplishment of key development
objectives. . The dredging was accomplished (almost 2-months ahead of schedule) and the
essential safety equipment was installed at the airport (no adverse impacts were reported).
Hence, the emergency support to restore critical infrastructure in the Port of Monrovia and at
Roberts International Airport (RIA) was delivered. In terms of associated costs, the initial
budgets were under-estimated for which reallocation became necessary. The economic and
financial returns are now being seen under downstream projects.

68.    This section can be best described in terms of analyzing the procurement and
supervision activities delivered under the LIRP. These activities covered three areas: goods,
works, and services as follows:

       (a)   Goods - activities under the project consisted of the supply of computers,
             printers, and accessories. It also included photocopiers, specialized software,
             vehicles, office furniture and furnishing. These may be considered as normal
             goods and equipment requirements to meet the project needs and facilitate
             project start-up. In terms of implementation, these items were procured
             reasonably well using Bank’s shopping procedures and served to strengthen the
             capacity building initiative as envisioned.

       (b)   Works - activities included the emergency investments at the Port of Monrovia
             and the RIA which were considered as critical to the entire economy of Liberia.


                                             17
      These were captured as follows; (i) Dredging of the Monrovia Freeport, (ii)
      Upgrading of the Freeport Oil Jetty, (iii) Firefighting Capacity Works, and (iv)
      Supply and Installation Works for the Roberts Airport Goods and Equipment.

(i)   The Implementation estimate for the Dredging Works on the procurement plan
      was US$1.86 million, and was later revised to US$2.2 million. The procurement
      process started on August 28, 2006 and the contract was signed about nine
      months later on April 9, 2007. Following this, the contract was completed and
      accepted within two months on June 30 and handed-over on July 3, 2007. The
      implementation of this critical contract cost the Project at least three times the
      original estimate, in the amount of US$6,091,127.00, which increased to a final
      cost of US$7,064,787.14 upon acceptance of completed works. The reasons for
      high cost of dredging works and reasons for increased final contract price are
      explained in detail in paragraph 40 and 41. The net final impact on Project cost
      was to the tune of 27 percent.


      (ii) Following this and with funds limited, it was decided to drop, and to restart
           the procurement for the Upgrading of the Free Port Oil Jetty using Limited
           International Bidding process under separate IDA supported AIDP. And
           again this was because two earlier international competitive bidding (ICB)
           processes for the procurement of works for the Upgrading of the Freeport
           Oil Jetty had failed for lack of effective response.

      (iii) Further to above, the works activities for Fire Fighting Capacity were
           dropped from the Project for lack of funds. The Project however allowed for
           a policy dialogue which eventually led to a PPP for a concession in the port
           completed in early 2011, which addressed the requirements of firefighting
           capacities.

      (iv) Supply and Installation Works for the RIA, Goods and Equipment contract
          On April 20, 2007 one single bid was submitted. After evaluation, a seven-
          month duration contract was signed on July 10, 2007 at a contract value of
          US$493,968.64, and completed on May 19, 2008 (delayed by three months).
          Extensive attempts were made to get supervision for this assignment but to
          no avail. After extensive procurement attempts, the Bank team provided SIU
          with names of several individual consultants, but there was no response.
          Given that at the time it was proving exceedingly difficult to get consultants
          (and for that matter contractors) interested in working in Liberia, the project
          was faced with the possibility of protracted delays in installing the
          equipment at the airport at the cost of urgently needed improvements in the
          safety, security and operational reliability of RIA. In light of above, the
          Bank agreed that RIA itself would undertake the supervision, including
          reporting on progress and preparation of final supervision report. However,
          no reports were provided in spite of Bank’s numerous requests as recorded
          in aide memoires. The Bank never received a project completion report from
          the SIU/RIA, and eventually advised SIU that a technical audit would be


                                       18
         undertaken by the Bank. A technical audit of the contract was conducted in
         August 2010, and a final report was prepared. The Audit found that the
         equipment was delivered – but that, base plates for the runway lights, did
         not match specifications. The Bank’s Audit further identified following key
         shortcomings during implementation as a result of the weak supervision:

          There was no evidence in support of the aircraft liability insurance
         coverage though the contractor was paid for it. The relevant insurance
         policy should have been to the benefit of RIA such as to cover RIA’s Base
         Support personnel against any claim for damage to aircraft which might
         have occurred during installation of the runway lighting and taxiway
         markers. It is also important to note that due to the failure of purchasing the
         aircraft liability insurance, the works were carried out in violation of the
         covenants of the Project which stated that “procurement for the benefit of
         RIA is contingent on this insurance being in place?.
          Payments were made for all insurance costs invoiced even though no
         evidence for the purchase of the same (as required by contract
         specifications) was submitted by the contractor.
          The base plates supplied for the runway lights did not match the
         specifications. They were not exchanged for the proper plates and
         consequently the lights have not been installed leading to infructuous
         expenditure.
          All payments except the advance payment were made after long delays.
         The interest payments were not made for any delayed payments nor were
         liquidated damages applied to the completion time overrun. And finally, no
         retention money was withheld from the regular payments for the defects
         liability period.
          The payments for the contract had to be split between the LIRP and the
         AIDP. Source for the advance payment and the first two interim payments –
         US$408,382.60 or some 83 percent of the total contract value – was paid
         through the LIRP, whereas the remainder of US$85,586.40 (17 percent) had
         to be paid from the subsequent AIDP that became effective while LIRP
         funds had been completely exhausted.

(c)   Consulting Services - mainly works supervision proposed to be delivered by
      firms came off well with the supervision of the dredging works. However, the
      proposed works supervision for the upgrading of the Free Port Oil Jetty did not
      materialize as procurement of works failed and was dropped. Several attempts
      were made to engage individual consultants. The Bank team also provided SIU
      with a list of several consultants but to no avail. Perhaps, it was still too close to
      the actual peace agreement to instill general confidence in contracts in post-
      conflict Liberia. Therefore, when consultants received a “yahoo account? emails
      (as government email system did not exist at the time) offering consulting
      opportunities, there was not much interest shown. As such, the proposed
      selection of a port and an environmental engineer also did not materialize.
      These were then deferred to the next Bank supported AIDP in view of funding


                                        19
             shortfall in the project. In addition, the selection of consultant for the supply and
             installation of the RIA works also produced significant delays because of the
             difficulties the Project encountered in accessing the services of a firm with the
             right qualifications to undertake the supervision of the installation works.
             Because of these difficulties, selection of a qualified individual consultant was
             considered; but the two selection processes in this area also failed. As a result of
             this, the supervision of the RIA works was carried out by two RIA staff that had
             some related experience.

3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

69.     The overall rating is Moderately Satisfactory (MS). Despite a slow start, moderately
ambitious project design, and truncated project components, the project has successfully
created an enabling environment in the port and the aviation sectors in very difficult in-
country circumstances. The interventions, especially in port, helped maintain uninterrupted
flow of goods into the country and mitigate the risk of food shortages. Successful
implementation of civil works in the port and airport indirectly helped prevent violence and
added much needed stability to post conflict fragile environment The outcome rating takes
into account the Project’s relevant achievement of each development objective, efficiency in
a post conflict environment, and development impact of the emergency support to restore
priority infrastructure in the Port of Monrovia and the RIA as well as long term development
impact in creating enabling environment for future projects.

70.     The project did succeed in adequately planning for the major cost-overrun scenario
that occurred in the dredging contract. The cost escalation on Component A1- Dredging
works and lack of additional funding limited the initially identified project interventions .
However, as the portfolio followed a programmatic approach, these left out activities were
soon covered under subsequent projects (AIDP and then URIRP).The project outcome
therefore remained overshadowed by one under-estimated Component A1 – Dredging
Works.

71.     Overall rating (MS) is weighted on the basis that, while significant achievement were
made in keeping the critical infrastructure operational in the port and airport, all planned
activities could not be achieved under this project though these activities were subsequently
picked up and successfully realized under other projects.

3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)    Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

72.     The project made significant milestones towards achievement of set targets but did
not collect any empirical data to verify impacts on reducing poverty. It has been
acknowledged however that the dredging of the port resulted in ships being able to call on the
port of Monrovia with imported food and fuel benefitting the people and facilitated the UN
peacekeeping operations. Similarly, there was no evidence of gender mainstreaming in
Project activities because results were not gender sensitive and data collection was not
gender disaggregated. As a result it could not be assessed how the completed infrastructure


                                               20
benefited men, women and children of Liberia other than to record broader benefits to the
country by helping to sustain the port and airport operations safely.

(b)    Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

73.      The project’s objectives, design and implementation proved relevant to current
global/regional/country priorities and the Bank’s sector strategy because this project did
address the emergency needs of Liberia and the Bank’s strategic goals. The strategic goal for
Liberia and the Bank was to assist in the process of peaceful economic recovery, to which
this Project contributed well by improving facilitation of freight and services. Improved
safety of operations at the Port of Monrovia and the RIA ensured safeguarding of peace and
stability and assisted in attracting private sector operators for business in Liberia.

74.     Both interventions subsequently have proven their value to the overall development
of the sector in Liberia. Even though the Component B (Technical Assistance and Capacity
Building) was dropped due to cost overruns, the outcome envisaged assistance to NPA in
bringing about a container terminal/handling concession materialized, with support under
subsequent Bank funded projects (AIDP). In terms of sector reform, the Bank supported
ambitious but successful Government efforts to reform the inefficient port sector and to
create a Landlord Port system. The concessioning of the Monrovia Port, (handed-over on
February 1, 2011) general cargo and container operations, to APM Terminals is a remarkable
achievement for any country much more so for a fragile and post conflict state. The RIA is
also undergoing a test operation under a private firm; this has also resulted in major
operational improvements at the RIA.

4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: “Moderate?

75.    Under the project, two critical subcomponents of the Component A: Infrastructure
Rehabilitation, were successfully delivered (A1 and A2 as defined in Table 1). Dredging
works facilitated to transform Freeport into a landlord port. Successful concessioning of the
Port has helped increase productivity significantly (nearly 80% increase in throughput from
2008).The national government and the MPW leadership at the time of this writing have
continued to be strongly supportive of the concept of rehabilitation, maintenance and
modernization of the core transport infrastructure.

76.    The overall risks to Development Outcome are assessed as follows:

       (a)   The handed-over Container Terminal Concession may collapse during
             implementation;
       (b)   Limited government experience and capacity to prepare and manage the
             projects;
       (c)   Labor resistance at the port; and
       (d)   RIA safety equipment maintenance and upgrading not sustained through future
             investments in the airport.



                                             21
77.   In the light of above risks, the risk to development outcome has been rated as
“moderate?.


5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1     Bank Performance
Overall Rating: Moderately Satisfactory (MS)

(a)    Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

78.     Project design was moderately ambitious and could not succeed fully as designed
given the low level of capacity and post-conflict environment; this being among the first
projects after Bank’s re-engagement in Liberia. While recognizing a potential for cost-
overrun during the design stage and developing a contingency plan in such scenario, the
project could not anticipate the scale of that margin as it happened in reality. Consequently,
the upgrading of the Oil Jetty and Fire-fighting capacity sub-components could not be
implemented as designed. It is also recognized that if the dredging contract had come in at
cost, and if these two sub-components had not been part of the project design, then there
would have been funds available without any identified sub-projects.

79.     The institutional capacity strengthening objectives envisaged under Component B
and C also could not be fully accomplished as defined in project design. Here there were two
considerations: (i) SIU and PFMU capacity building and strengthening were being supported
financially by other IDA projects, thus pre-empting the need to charge any significant
amounts to this smallest IDA project in the transport portfolio, (ii) a more comprehensive
strategic work commenced under the separate AIDP which included the envisioned work
under this Project and thus made it redundant. These issues were reported in the
Implementation Status Reports (ISR) for the project; the ISRs for all the IDA projects
recognized that while each was an individual project, they were being managed as a portfolio
of projects. In the absence of that approach, the Bank team would have had some port
strategic work done solely to fulfill the project design (and thus being redundant on activities
as that port strategic work was already part of a broader Transport Strategy work).

80.     The proposed works supervision for the upgrading of the Free Port Oil Jetty did not
materialize as procurement of works failed. Furthermore, the proposed selection of a port
and an environmental engineer did not materialize because they were deferred to the next
Bank supported AIDP due to shortage of funding. In addition, the selection of consultant for
the supply and installation of the RIA works also produced significant delays because of the
difficulties the Project encountered in accessing the services of a firm with the right
qualifications to undertake the supervision of the installation works. This issue has been
comprehensively explained under Section 3.3, para 68 (b)(iv) and (c) of this Report.

(b)    Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory



                                              22
81.     Nonetheless, Bank interventions during implementation were timely and provided
appropriate – in terms of scale and practicality – advice, with some areas of notable
achievement. Critical risks, such as cost-overruns, were appropriately flagged and addressed
in a timely manner through relevant channels, even if resolution was not always immediately
forthcoming. The Bank team made regular visits to the Project sites and the relevant agency
in the port sector, and followed each visit with detailed Aide-Memoires that flagged actions
for follow-up.

82.   The task team, in general, brought to bear all the relevant skills in a cost-effective
way. The team effectively raised issues affecting the project to management’s attention and
management responded actively and speedily to issues raised.

83.    Fiduciary. The Bank’s financial management (FM) oversight remained weak as
compliance to the Project covenant on the aircraft liability insurance related to RIA contract
was not successful. After initial problems in communications, interaction improved with the
Recipient resulting in: (a) putting in place effective systems that would allow the Project to
disburse efficiently and accurately account for its expenditures; (b) providing training to
build capacity in both procurement and financial management; and (c) making themselves
available in a timely manner to trouble-shoot as questions arose.

5.2     Borrower Performance
Overall Rating: Moderately Satisfactory (MS)

(a)    Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

84.     The Government demonstrated a fair level of commitment and ownership towards the
project design, preparation and its implementation. LIRP initiated policy dialogue to revamp
port management in Monrovia. The Government action in concessioning Monrovia Port and
rightsizing port staff clearly showed its strong resolve to pursue and implement reformist
measures.

85.      The Government was not able to comply with one of the two Project Covenants.
Compliance to the project covenant on the aircraft liability insurance was not successful. Due
to the failure of purchasing the aircraft liability insurance, the works were carried out in
violation of the covenants of the Project which stated "procurement for the benefit of RIA is
contingent on this insurance being in place." There was no evidence in support of the aircraft
liability insurance coverage though the contractor was paid for it. The relevant insurance
policy should have been to the benefit of RIA such as to cover RIA's Base Support personnel
against any claim for damage to aircraft which might have occurred during installation of the
runway lighting and taxiway markers.

(b)    Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

86.     The Recipient team expressed ownership and commitment to achieving development
objectives, and worked diligently and succeeded despite very difficult political, institutional


                                              23
and field conditions. Implementation readiness, arrangements, capacity, and appointment of
key staff remained an ongoing challenge. The SIUs partners, the NPA and the CAA lacked
the experience or systems to buttress SIU’s role, thereby frequently missing opportunities for
coordination and timely resolution of issues. The SIU worked well with the Bank, and
through their Project Manager, sought Bank’s assistance as required to flag issues and
prevent the Project from suffering unnecessary delays, or allowing issues to get out of hand.
The grant was almost fully utilized by the end of the second project year out of the four years
duration.

87.    Procurement and Financial Management. Between years 1 and 2, the project faced
some challenges with delays in funds flow, and accuracy of key procurement documents in
following the Bank’s standard guidelines and procedures.

88.     The Recipient carried out its financial management responsibilities, as it now does for
all infrastructure projects, through the PFMU hosted in MOF. The unit maintained
satisfactory staffing, budgeting, funds flow, disbursement, internal controls, financial
reporting and external auditing arrangements through the implementation of the Project.
Some minor financial management responsibilities such as record keeping of invoices were
carried out within the SIU by an assigned finance officer. The coordination between SIU and
PFMU however, remained an ongoing issue frequently resulting in delayed payments to the
contracted entities. The SIU continued to face challenges in the management of airport
contract due to weak coordination with RIA.

6.     Lessons Learned

89.    Procurement of Works and Services in Post-conflict States. Transport infrastructure
has to be in a satisfactory operational state because it serves as a catalyst for necessary
development and growth. The intervention though small, helped improve Liberia's import
and export potential. The following are very useful procurement lessons learned in the ICB
for works and large value consulting contracts for post-conflict environments:

       (a)   General. Following prolonged war, finding interested contractors and
             consultants with adequate capacity and experience to work in a fragile state is a
             major challenge. Because of security risks, limitations in the availability of
             materials and human capacity, and the unreliable logistics, the costs are
             unpredictable; often end up being significantly higher than estimates.
             Estimating costs can therefore be challenging.

       (b)   Works. Engineering estimates for critical works and installations in post-conflict
             countries, especially those to be bid under ICB, should appreciate, recognize
             and accommodate the influence of potential bidders' perceived risks and
             uncertainties in the post-conflict environment, in order to provide realistic
             working estimates for critical post conflict infrastructure to facilitate effective
             budgeting. This will enable other supplementary works investments to be
             funded as intended in order to achieve the stated project objectives.




                                              24
       (c)   Services. There is need for early identification of qualified firms in the market,
             relative to required specialized and/or critical services and engage their interest.
             The same can be done for the identification of qualified individuals so that
             required consultant competence is sought as a contingency measure, in order to
             avoid or limit the danger of not getting very competent and qualified consultants
             to respond to REOIs.


90.     Replication. Dredging works and safety equipment installation accomplished under
this Project were important to open opportunities that could be assimilated by the
Government for future works in other sub-sectors of transport. The project however was
limited because of financial constraints under the trust fund. Meanwhile, in parallel to this
project another Bank financed project was in preparation (the Emergency Infrastructure
Project, EIP). It may have been prudent to combine the two initiatives though it is recognized
that the pressures to deliver in a post-conflict emergency scenario were intense, and possibly
did not permit such an approach. Keeping this in context and the resulting outcome of the
operational model, any future replication should account for limited financing and, wherever
possible, consider an amalgamation of resources into one sizeable project while still taking a
programmatic approach to infrastructure building.

91.    Project Design.

       (a)   Components. It is important not to design projects that are overambitious in
             scope, since this may lead to critical activities not being implemented by others
             and increasing risks in a fragile situation.

       (b)   Institutional Collaboration and Activity Coordination. The challenge is in
             achieving proper sequencing and coordination of all aspects of project activities
             to assure flow, efficient use of resources and better outcomes. A well laid out
             structure for institutional collaboration in a well-coordinated manner for all
             project activities is fundamental to effective implementation of such projects,
             especially where there are multiple stakeholders. The SIU and the Bank team
             adopted a programmatic approach for the Bank funded infrastructure projects in
             an interactive fashion, to ensure a coordinated support to the Government for
             the implementation of its infrastructure program. This approach has worked
             well.

       (c)   Specialized Assignment Supervision. Even in case of exceptional circumstances,
             supervision of specialist assignments (the RIA equipment installation) should
             not be entrusted to a governmental unit until it has demonstrated previously that
             it is capable of handling the task.

       (d)   Roadshows: to In post-war contexts, extraordinary efforts need to be made to
             attract contractors and consultants to a country during the project preparation
             phase. This can potentially reduce costs at later stages and has positive conflict
             impacts overall. One approach is to hold national and international roadshow(s)



                                              25
             during preparation as well as implementation phase with a view to invoke
             attention of the market and diaspora towards the project components. This was
             successfully practiced in Liberia in October 2009 under a subsequent project
             (URIRP).

       (e)   Improved Oversight Mechanism. Timely oversight mechanism and support is
             extremely necessary in a post-conflict environment where the circumstances are
             fast changing and evolving, particularly, on problems identification and early
             reporting by the technical staff during implementation. Failure to do so may
             result in untimely mitigation and may lead to downstream problems in
             completed projects not providing the value for money as envisioned in design.
             Simple M&E systems can be put in place during the design phase that can make
             it easier to rate the project objectively during execution phase. If the
             government is found not to have the capacity to carry out these activities,
             alternative arrangements (such as hiring a consultant) can be considered.

       (f)   Counterpart Capacity, Knowledge and Skills Development. The project did well
             to build counterpart capacity by discarding a more expedient option of using
             third party executions in a post conflict and fragile environment. The provided
             ample opportunity for national staff to develop skills throughout the project
             implementation phase. However, tt is necessary to ensure that the implementing
             unit identifies and dedicates sufficient resources and attention to the build
             capacity. Effective skills and knowledge transfer is fundamental to
             sustainability of project outputs and outcomes. A systematic and conscious
             effort is needed to this effect in day-to-day capacity transfer to project
             counterparts, and in formalized training settings. Training components should
             be well designed, sufficiently resourced with adequate provisions for
             implementing agency staff to obtain on-the-job training by working with the
             contractors, suppliers and consultants hired on different project components.

92.     Supervision. In view of the fact that the PFMU was located outside the MPW where
the Implementation unit was located, coordination between the two units on financial
management issues was sometimes difficult. For example, payments to some contractors
suffered delays either because invoices could not be brought to the attention of PFMU on a
timely basis or PFMU failed to track the invoices that were submitted by the SIU Finance
Officer. There were also communication bottlenecks in terms of PFMU notifying SIU of
payments made to contractors. The separate homes for PFMU (MOF) and the SIU (MPW)
were agreed on at the insistence and requirement of the Minister of Finance at the time, who
deemed that the budgetary and auditing systems and procedures at the time were too weak to
allow the technical work and FM to sit under same roof. This was an important
consideration given the fact that the Project was being designed in the months immediately
after the first post-conflict elected Government that had taken over after elections from a
transitional Government under which financial management had been unreliable. The
following key recommendations are provided for future improvements:




                                            26
       (a) Project covenants to be included in project agreements should be carefully
           considered. Careful and continuous monitoring by all stakeholders is necessary
           for compliance during implementation.

       (b) Communication between PFMU and IIU needs to be improved through regular
           weekly meetings to discuss outstanding FM issues.

       (c) Steps towards financial management capacity building within the
           Implementation Unit to undertake full financial management responsibilities of
           its projects should be accelerated. This will eliminate the administrative and
           processing bottlenecks inherent in the current arrangement.

7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)    Borrower/implementing agencies
None

(b)    Cofinanciers
None

(c)    Other partners and stakeholders
None




                                           27
                                Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing

(a)    Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                                             Actual/Latest
                                      Appraisal Estimate                          Percentage of
          Components                                           Estimate
                                        (US$ millions)                             Appraisal
                                                             (US$ millions)
Infrastructure Rehabilitation                  7.70                8.2640            107.32%
Technical Assistance                           0.15                0.2156            143.74%
Project Management                             0.65                0.0202             3.1%

             Total Baseline Cost               8.50                 8.4999
Physical Contingencies
                                               0.00                 0.00               0.00
Price Contingencies
                                               0.00                 0.00               0.00
               Total Project Costs             8.50                 8.4999
Front-end fee PPF                              0.00                 0.00                .00
Front-end fee IBRD                             0.00                 0.00                .00
       Total Financing Required                8.50                 8.4999




(b) Financing
                                                          Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                          Type of Co-                                  Percentage of
           Source of Funds                                 Estimate       Estimate
                                           financing                                    Appraisal
                                                        (US$ millions) (US$ millions)
Borrower                                                0.00           0.00           .00
Special Financing                                       8.50           8.4999         100%




                                                 28
                                    Annex 2: Outputs by Component

PDO/Results per           Outcome Indicators as listed in Project Appraisal                 Remarks
Component                 Document/Achievements
                          At Design                                     Actual

Project Development Objective

Provide Government        Continued, safe and reliable service provision via the target infrastructure:
with emergency            i) Access to the Port of Monrovia is preserved: Fully              Major project cost-
support to restore        vessels with 10.5 m draft or less can enter port achieved;         overrun
priority infrastructure                                                      all
in the Port of                                                               activities
Monrovia and at                                                              completed
Roberts International     ii) Oil jetty strengthened, fully operational and Dropped          The activity was later
Airport and assist the    safe with vessel discharging capacity of up to                     planned under Bank
Government in             30,000 dwt                                                         financed AIDP; and
developing medium                                                                            then transferred to
term strategic                                                                               URIRP where it is
framework for                                                                                under implementation
efficient and             iii) Firefighting capacity at the Port of          Dropped
productive port and       Monrovia established
aviation sectors          iv) Efficient and reliable container handling      In-progress Under Concession
                          service: Minimum of10 moves per hour and 10                        Contract
                          days dwell time or less
                          v) Minimum ICAO air navigation safety              Fully
                          international standards: met                       achieved;
                                                                             all
                                                                             activities
                                                                             completed
                          Strategic port and aviation framework formulated
                                                                                             Development of
                                                                                             strategic framework
                                                                                             for the two sub-
                                                                                             sectors became
                                                                                             redundant as the
                                                                                             Government, under
                                                                                             Bank funding through
                                                                                             the Bank supported
                                                                                             AIDP, started
                                                                                             developing a
                                                                                             comprehensive
                                                                                             National Transport
                                                                                             Policy comprising of
                                                                                             strategies, action
                                                                                             plans and an
                                                                                             investment
                                                                                             framework.

Intermediate Results One per Components



                                                      29
Component A: Infrastructure Rehabilitation
Rehabilitate selected Port: i) The port entrance and basin are         Fully        Activity quantum
and prioritized       brought to the required depth for the vessels    achieved;    increased due to
infrastructure        calling without risk of grounding: channel       all          additional dredging
                      width of 150 meters; channel depth of Channel    activities   volumes resulting in
                      Depth of 11 meters                               completed    cost overrun
                      ii) The import of the basic fuel categories      Dropped      Due to project cost
                      (heavy oil, gas oil, gasoline and jet fuel) is                overrun
                      taking place under safe and secure conditions:
                      oil jetty structure refurbished including
                      construction of new off-load station, mooring
                      dolphins, walkways
                      iii) Capacity to combat large fires restored     Dropped      Due to project cost
                                                                                    overrun
                      iv) Container terminal contract in place:         In-         Private concession in
                      Average annual crane productivity of 10          progress     place since Feb 2011
                      TEUs/hour and 10 days dwell time or less
                      Airport: v) Airfield Ground Lighting (AGL)       Fully
                      for runway and taxiway in place and              achieved;
                      Instrumental Landing System (ILS) for            all
                      instrumental and precision approach is fully     activities
                      calibrated and operational                       completed
Component B: Technical Assistance and Capacity Building
Long-term vision for Improved technical capacity by a core of          Partially    Hiring of
the operation and     SIU/MPW, NPA and RIA senior staff and            achieved     Environment and Port
development of the    understanding of principal Bank policies and                  Engineers did not
two sectors and state procedures                                                    materialize
owned entities
(SOEs) – developed
and discussed
Strengthen capacity   Government decision on strategic direction and   Dropped      Undertaken under
at MPW and both       reform of port and aviation sectors                           Bank funded AIDP
SOEs
Component C: Project Management
Project Management    Fully staffed and operational SIU at MPW and     Achieved
                      PFMU at MOF
                      The SIU manages LIRP activities in               Partially    Compliance to
                      conformance with legal and fiduciary             Achieved     project covenant on
                      requirements, as stated in the Grant Agreement                aircraft liability
                                                                                    insurance was not
                                                                                    successful




                                                  30
                         Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis

1.      No directly related financial or economic analyses were carried out during project
preparation and appraisal. However, prior studies had been undertaken for the port and
airport [as well as roads, telecom, power, water and sewage – not subject to direct investment
support under the Liberia Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project (LIRP)] with the aim of
identifying emergency works and actions, prioritized under acceptable approach, to bring the
operations to acceptable levels. Following is a summary of those priorities that were
employed in the preparation and justification of the project.

2.     Port. For identifying prioritized order of works and actions for investments in
seaports, the traditional method is the use of a multi-criteria-analysis applied and leading to
decisions based on the added value of a certain measure to safety and efficiency of port
operations based on a variety of criteria and weighing factors.

3.      The extreme situation in the Port of Monrovia necessitated a different approach to
prioritization. The risk of not implementing a particular measure to port operations and more
broadly the supply line/economic life line of Liberia was used as guideline for prioritizing the
emergency works.

4.     Technical assessment of the port resulted in a long list of 25 works and activities to be
undertaken utilized the following categorization and characteristics to prioritize these.

5.      Based on the categorization, a prioritized short list of eight works and activities was
selected. National Ports Authority (NPA) confirmed both the identified long and short list as
basis for support. The tables below show the short list and comments on the status or actions
of each activity at the time of project preparation.

                                       Table 1: Short list
    Type        Category                                 Characteristics
                               Works absolutely critical for maintaining / assuring current level
                 Critical
   EMERGENCY




                               of economic activity and social / political stability in the country.
     WORKS




                               Works essential for safety of port workers and for maintaining /
                 Highest
                               assuring current level of port activity.

                  High         Works essential for improving port effectiveness and efficiency.


                               Works strongly advisable for improving port effectiveness and
   LONGER




                Medium
   WORKS




                               efficiency.
    TERM




                  Low          Works desirable for improving port effectiveness and efficiency.




                                                31
                    Table 2: Status of Actions for Each Activity for Port

       Priority Emergency Works              Category                   Note
1   Dredging                                 critical   LIRP Planned
2   Tugboat overhaul/marine service          critical   NPA intended to procure a tug
3   Upgrading Oil Jetty                      critical   LIRP Planned
    Providing firefighting capacity at NPA
4                                            critical   LIRP Planned
    yard
    Marking unsafe areas on deck
5                                            highest    NPA Action
    Marginal Quay
    Demolition and Reconstruction                       Not addressed due to unavailability
6                                            highest
    Marginal Wharf                                      of funds
                                                        NPA Immediate Action - many of
7   Port Security                            high       proposed actions can be
                                                        implemented with limited funds
    Improvement container handling                      Capital cost avoided with WB
8   equipment, container yard and            high       support in bringing about
    container operations                                Container Concession


6.      With a combination of NPA actions and support from the Project, seven of the eight
shortlisted priorities were planned to be addressed through the Project.

7.      Priorities 1, 3 and 4 were to benefit from LIRP investment funds. In order to
maximize impact of investment funds, it was agreed that container concession (inherent in
priority 8 be granted for short term period. NPA on its own account and initiative had
implemented priority 5 and agreed to advance on priority 7. On priority 2, (as of July 2012)
NPA is in the process of procuring two tug boats.

8.      The most expensive investment, demolition and reconstruction of Marginal Wharf
(identified as priority 6), was estimated to cost US$20 million at that time, and needed to be
addressed through other means.

9.      Airport. The International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) developed the
principles and techniques of international air navigation and promotes the planning and
development of international air transport (non-military aviation, both private and
commercial) to ensure safe and orderly growth of airports. It provides standards and
recommended practices, amongst others, for safety, security and operational procedures, and
for airport planning and designing. Compliance with ICAO standards is therefore the
international benchmark for three basic requirements: (a) safety; (b) security and (c) aircraft
and passenger handling.

10.    On the basis of ICAO, RIA emergency needs were assessed and prioritized in
following order based on interventions needed to reinstate safe and efficient operation at the
RIA in short-and medium-term. Those were: (a) air safety; (b) ground safety; (c) airside
pavement conditions; (d) security; (e) airside operations; (f) terminal building area and
landside facilities; (g) utilities; and (h) environmental conditions.


                                                32
                     Table 3: Status of actions for each activity for Airport

               Priority Emergency Works                                   Note
                                            air safety/
      Supply and installation of
1                                           ground        LIRP Planned
      navigational equipment, etc.
                                            safety
                                                          First choice for financing if bid
      Refurbishment of RIA R&FF             ground
2                                                         savings realized in agreed LIRP
      trucks, ambulance, etc.               safety
                                                          package
      Supply of materials for airside and                 Not addressed due to current
3                                           terminal
      repairs airport buildings                           unavailability of funds
      Supply and maintenance of airport                   Not addressed due to current
4                                           landside
      equipment                                           unavailability of funds
                                                          Not addressed due to current
5     Improvements of utilities             landside
                                                          unavailability of funds


11.      Only the first priority identified was funded by LIRP.




                                                  33
      Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a)   Task Team members
            Names                                Title                  Unit
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Gylfi Palsson                    Lead Transport Specialist            LCSTR
Baba Imoru Abdulai               Procurement Specialist               AFTPC
Owusu Mensah Agyei               Consultant                           AFTFM
Muhammad Zulfiqar Ahmed          Sr. Transport. Engr.                 AFTTR
Yao Badjo                        Senior Infrastructure Specialist     AFTUW
Samuel Bruce-Smith               Consultant                           AFCW1
Thillainath Chelliah             Senior Highway Specialist            TWITR
Callista Chen                    Consultant                           AFCS1
Robert Wallace DeGraft-Hanson    Financial Management Specialist      AFTFM
Florence Geegbae Dukuly          Team Assistant                       AFMLR
Joseph A. Gadek                  Sr. Sanitary Engineer                TWIEA
Kremena Ionkova                  Urban Specialist                     AFTUW
Christopher Paul Jackson         Senior Economist                     AFTAR
Yitzhak A. Kamhi                 Consultant                           AFTTR
David Hope Kanu                  E T Consultant                       AFTFM
Paul Kriss                       Lead Urban Specialist                EASCS
Cornelis Kruk                    Consultant                           AFTTR
Antoine V. Lema                  Senior Social Development Spec       AFTCS
Anthony Mensa-Bonsu              Consultant                           AFTPC
Ntombie Siwale                   Sr. Program Assistant                AFTTR
Anne Njuguna                     Program Assistant                    AFTTR
Jonathan Nyamukapa               Sr Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
Wycliffe Okoth                   Temporary                            AFTTR
Thomas E. Walton                 Consultant                           EASNS

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending was prepared under TF030807 and no Bank Budget was used.
                           Total:                                          0.00
Supervision/ICR
  FY07 – FY11                                35.48                      273.11

                            Total:            35.48                      273.11




                                            34
Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey Results

               N/A




                35
Annex 6: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

                      N/A




                      36
        Annex 7: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

A.     BASIC TRUST FUND INFORMATION

       Project Name: Liberia Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
       Grant Number: 57072
       TF Number: P101456
       Task Team Leader/TF Managing Unit: Gylfi Palsson and Emmanuel James / IDA
       TF Amount: US$8,500,000.00
       Recipient of TF funds: Recipient is Liberia and Implementing Agencies was Special
       Implementation Unit (SIU), now Infrastructure Implementation Unit (IIU)
       Purpose of TF: The purposes of the Grant are to: (a) provide the Recipient with
       emergency support to Rehabilitate priority infrastructure in the Port of Monrovia and
       at Roberts International Airport; and (b) assist the Recipient in developing a medium
       term strategic framework for efficient and productive port and aviation sectors.

       TF Approval/IBTF Clearance Date: November 10, 2006
       TF Activation Date: December 1, 2006
       TF Closing Date(s): September 30, 2010

       Table 1: Cost and Financing

                                        Original     Reallocation       Actual       Percentage
                                       Allocation     (04/22/08)       Disbursed     of revised
 Category     Category Description        US$            US$             US$         allocation
   (A)      Consultant Services       1,435,000.00     182,000.00       215,618.27    118.5%
   (B)      Training                     40,000.00               0               0
   (C)      Goods                       150,000.00     511,000.00       479,492.08    93.8%
   (D)      Works                     6,700,000.00   7,787,000.00     7,784,571.45    100.0%
   (E)      Operating costs             175,000.00      20,000.00        20,274.72    101.4%
            Cancelled as on Jan
            31,2011                   -            -                        -43.48
            Total                     8,500,000.00 8,500,000.00       8,499,913.04    100.0%


B.     TRUST FUND DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN

1.     Original (and Revised) Trust Fund Development Objectives:

The Development Objective was to provide Government of Liberia with emergency support
to restore priority infrastructure in the Port of Monrovia and at Roberts International Airport
(RIA) and assist the Government in developing a medium-term strategic framework for
rehabilitating the port and aviation sectors. However due to inadequate budgetary allocation
the original components for the restoration of priority infrastructure in the Port of Monrovia




                                              37
and RIA were scaled down with the approval and authorization by the Liberia Government
and World Bank.

2.      Original (and Revised) Trust Fund Activities/Components:
The Grant of US$8.5 million started addressing the prioritized emergency works and
Activities in the Port of Monrovia and at RIA, and started to provide targeted support to
Government in achieving basic organizational capacity for efficient management of the
respective sectors. The project also supported the Government in formulating a strategic
framework for the sectors. Implementation period of four years.

3.     Outcome Indicators:

       a) Access to the Port of Monrovia is preserved: vessels with 10.5 m draft or less can
          enter port;
       b) Oil jetty strengthened, fully operational and safe with vessel discharging capacity
          of up to 30,000 dwt;
       c) Firefighting capacity at the Port of Monrovia established;
       d) Efficient and reliable containers handling service Minimum 10 moves per hour
          and 10 days dwell time or less; and
       e) Minimum ICAO air navigation safety international standards met and Strategic
          port and aviation framework formulated.

4.     Other Significant Change in Trust Fund Design:

An appropriate response is considered from the following perspective:

As per TF-Design: The TFLIB-funded technical assessments underpinning the project have
been carried out during the transitional period that followed the armed conflict. Most
development assistance during the period was designed to allow employment of low-skilled
ex-combatants and Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) with the objective to preserve
stability by keeping former fighters away from their fighting routine. (Refer to B.4, Item 60,
Page 10 of PAD)

Actual Situation: Not achieved as per TF-Design, employment data (basically information
obtained during observation of workforce during site visits & inspections – as no information
on local labor was presented in contractor’s invoices or progress reports) shows that during
the projects implementation the intended impact was not significant or not achieved at all.
(For the Dredging of the Entrance Channel at the Freeport, only expatriates were observed on
the Hopper, during implementation.) (For the RIA Supply & Installation Contract, a minimal,
not significant local labor force was observed during the implementation.)

As per TF-Design: By the same token, longer term sector reforms which would have
inevitably involved down-sizing of the SOEs, were left outside of the immediate
Development agenda. (Refer to Minutes of site Meeting participation of NPA Management
and Staff)




                                             38
Actual Situation: The above is not entirely the case. For the Freeport of Monrovia, the
Dredging of the Entrance Channel. The National Port Authority (NPA) – consultations and
Interaction with the NPA Technical Staff and Management, during the project’s execution
did take place – which again, to sound the note, were essentially in the realm of a very
immediate development agenda.

Actual Situation: For the Roberts International Airport (RIA), (in contrast to the NPA, RIA
 has not been incorporated and technically, it is public budgetary entity, functioning as a State
 Owned Enterprise (SOE), again this was not entirely the case, the entity was not left out of
 the immediate development agenda, RIA Management, under exceptional circumstances, was
 given the task to provide supervision during the implementation of the Supply and
 Installation Contract for the Navigational, Meteorological and Security Equipment.

Not as per TF-Design: (Extraneous Circumstances) A significant variance between the
Rough Order Magnitude (ROM) for estimates of the Dredging of the Entrance Channel of the
Freeport of Monrovia (US$2.2million) (Refer to (i) Line Item 49, page 9, of the PAD) as
against actual cost of works (US$7.7million). (Refer to Actual Expenditures from IIU’s
Financial Managementt Division)

(1)     A cost Over-run, which essentially was allowed due to the very rapid narrowing of
the entrance Channel and reduction of the Port basin draft, due to littoral drift and siltation of
the single major Port in Liberia, for all imports and exports. A situation, which left
unaddressed, was tantamount to a catastrophe, meaning a complete blockage/closure to the
Freeport of Monrovia- no shipping vessel would be able to enter or leave the Freeport of
Monrovia.

(2)    A cost over-run which, given the extreme urgency, coupled with the fact a very low
response to the Bidding process, sole eligible Bidder at the time of Bid Opening – with time
not being on the side of the GOL & World Bank (WB), to have the option to re-launch the
procurement process or go to next ineligible Bidder, barred/rejected as a result of
procurement rules – all late bids are to be received and Noted “LATE?, remained un-opened
and returned to bidder subsequently. The particular late bid was marked with the following
scenario and to capture the circumstances an extract is culled from the minutes prepared at
the time.

OFFICIAL WITHDRAWALS (Refer to Minutes of Bid Opening)

Messrs. Boskalis and JAN DE NUL procured tender documents, but officially withdrew from
making offer.

RESPONSES
Only two firms tendered for the dredging works:
Dredging International of Belgium; and
VAN OORD of the Netherlands

REMARKS AND RESPONSES



                                               39
Dredging International submitted their bid in five (5) copies and one (1) original. A bid
security of US$50,000.00, and a bid form were included in their bid. Bid was received fully
sealed, at the price of US$ 6,091,127.00

VAN OORD’s bid came unsealed and in one copy. However, SIU was informed, that the
Sealed bid was DHLed on December 8, but that DHL was encountering customs difficulties
at RIA. Bid opening was December 13th, while the sealed bid reached SIU on the 14th.
Neither bid security, nor bid form was included; but there was a bid price indication of
US$5,850,890.00 in the unsealed bid.?

The GOL & WB therefore permitted the cost over-run with the initial acceptance of the sole
eligible Bidder, Dredging International of Belgium, Bid Price and a further cost over-run
when it was established, during implementation that the total material required to be dredged
exceeded, the planned 500,000m3.

(3)     As a result of the above cost over-run re-allocation of funds ensued. This is also
captured in the face of the fact that project(s) were dropped, in the case of the provision of
Fire Fighting Facilities and also because procurement efforts were unsuccessful after several
attempts, i.e. in the procurement of works for the Oil Jetty Rehabilitation at the NPA.

C.     OUTCOME (Note: Source is Annex 2 of PAD)

1.     Relevance of TF Objectives, Design and Implementation:

The Trust Fund objectives, design and implementation proved relevant to current
global/regional/country priorities and the Bank’s sector strategy because this project did
address the emergency needs of Liberia and the Bank strategic goal. The strategic goal for
Liberia and Bank to assist in the process of peaceful economic recovery, to which this project
contributes by rebuilding shattered infrastructure in two high priority transport sub-sectors
for improved facilitation of freight and services globally. Improved safety of operations and
refurbished facilities at the Port of Monrovia and Roberts International Airport will safeguard
peace and stability, and assist in attracting private operators for business. In fact, being two
of the revenue-generating agencies in Liberia, the State Owned Enterprise has the potential to
advance their financial position and attract private sector involvement should their technical
and commercial performance improve.

2.     Achievement of TF Development Objective:

The following represents the extent to which the Trust Fund development objectives have
been met:

Port: i) The port entrance and basin have been brought to the required channel width (150 m)
and channel depth (11 m) without risk of vessels grounding.




                                              40
Airport: ii) Airfield Ground Lighting (AGL) for runway and taxiway is in place. Also
Instrumental Landing System (ILS) for precision to the approach of the runway is fully
calibrated and operational.

3.     Efficiency

To correctly describe the degree to which the Trust Fund activities have been efficiently
implemented, in terms of their associated costs, implementation times and economic and
financial returns, we must accept that these sectors were with dilapidated infrastructure since
Liberia was emerging from 15 years of civil war. The Trust Fund activities have been
efficiently implemented due to the fact that the critical Development Objectives were met, in
terms of their associated costs, the initial goal was under estimated for which reallocation
was necessary, and with regards to efficient implementation times, implementation was
completed before the closing date of the Project therefore implementation times were
efficient; and economic and financial returns are now higher than before.

While it is understood for projects of this nature that there are unintended/unrelated
developmental impacts, there is no available data to show positive and/or negative
unintended/unrelated impacts during the implementation of this project.

4.     Overall TF Outcome:

The overall TF outcome is Satisfactory (S). The justification for the overall outcome rating,
takes into account the Trust Fund’s relevant achievement of each TF development objective,
efficiency and development impact of the emergency support to restore priority infrastructure
in the Port of Monrovia and the Roberts International Airport. However, the following were
not achieved:

1.     Oil jetty strengthened, fully operational and safe with vessel discharging capacity of
up to 30,000 dwt;
2.     Firefighting capacity at the Port of Monrovia established;

D.     PERFORMANCE

1.      Bank
The performance of the bank is rated as Highly Satisfactory (HS), and that assertion is
justified by the fact that the Bank did assist as a partner to drive the process of financing and
implementation. One instant is that when it was realized that cost estimates was too
optimistic and/or private sector interest in civil works limited except at high premium, the
Bank assisted by funds reallocation to address critical components.

2.     Government of Liberia (GOL)

The performance of the Recipient is rated as Satisfactory (S), and the justification is that the
Recipient did all of that which was expected to drive the process of implementation. The




                                               41
grant was fully utilized by the closing date of the Project. The quality of both civil works and
services contracts funded under by the grant were satisfactory

E.     LESSONS LEARNED / RECOMMENDATIONS

           Conduct of detailed assessment should form the basis for budgetary allocation
           Contract packaging should be sufficient to attract serious competitors
           Enhance local capability for efficient contract management/administration




                                              42
Annex 8: Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

                               N/A




                               43
                   Annex 9: List of Supporting Documents on File

          LIBERIA INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT

1.    Detailed Assessment of Emergency and Longer-term Actions required to Re-establish
      Efficient Port Operations in the Port of Monrovia – January 31, 2006 (Royal
      Haskoning)
2.    Emergency Works Report – March 2006 (NACO Airport Consultants/Steward Scott)
3.    Assessment of Emergency Repairs and Feasibility and Design Studies for Urban
      Supply, Sanitation, Storm-water Drainage and Solid Waste Management in Liberia –
      February 2006
4.    Report of the Underwater Inspection at the Freetown of Monrovia, Liberia – The Oil
      Jetty - June-July 2005 (Royal Haskoning)
5.    Pavement Assessment – November 2005 (NACO Airport Consultants/Steward Scott)
6.    Environmental Scan of the Port of Monrovia – July 2005 (Royal Haskoning)
7.    Draft Airport Master Plan Report – September 2005 (NACO Airport
      Consultants/Steward Scott)
8.    Detailed Assessment of Emergency and Longer-term Actions required to Re-establish
      Efficient Port Operations Draft Master Plan Report – August 31, 2005 (Royal
      Haskoning)
9.    Inception Report: Robert International Airport – July 2005 (NACO Airport
      Consultants/Steward Scott)
10.   World Bank, LIRP, Emergency Project Paper, November 07, 2006.
11.   Detailed Assessment of Emergency and Longer-term Actions required to Re-establish
      Efficient Port Operations in the Port of Monrovia: Technical Report – Final, March
      20, 2006 (Royal Haskoning). The Provisional Environmental Impact Assessment and
      the Environmental Management Plan are contained in Chapter 7 and Annexes D, E
      and F of this report.
12.   Provisional Environmental Assessment and Environmental Management Plan –
      undated (Royal Haskoning). This is a free-standing compilation of the pEIA and
      EMP as presented in the Technical Report, prepared for public disclosure.
13.   Report on the Environmental Inspection/Survey of the Two Proposed Dredged
      Material Disposal Sites Located Outside the Free Port of Monrovia, Liberia – May
      2007 (West Atlantic Geomatics).
14.   Environmental Soil Investigation, Port of Monrovia, Final Report, March 24, 2006
      (Royal Haskoning).
15.   Dredging of the Entrance Channel of the Port of Monrovia, Works Completion
      Report, July 2007 (Royal Haskoning)



                                        MAP




                                          44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 34852
                            11°W                                                              10°W                                                           9°W                                                       8°W


        This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
        Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

9°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9°N




                                                                                                                                                                                                             LIBERIA
                                                                                                                                             GUINEA
       SIERRA                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                Irié
       LEONE                                                   To                             Voinjama
                                                              Buedu
                                                                                              Kolahun

                                            To                                       Mt. Wuteve




                                                                                                                                 .
                                         Pendembu                                     (1,380 m)




                                                                                                                                ts
                                                                                                                        M
8°N                                                      Vahun                                                                                                                                                                                              8°N
                                                                                                                            i


                                                                                               e
                                                                                                                       iz

                                                                                              ng
                                                                                                                   g
                                          To
                                        Kenema                                        Ra  i                 o   no
                                                                Gelahun
                                                                                 g   iz                 W                       Zorzor                                                    To
                                                                         o    lo                                                                                                         Lola
                                                         a




                                                                                                                                                                                                          .
                                                      ey             W




                                                                                                                                                                                                        ts
                                                    Gb                                                                                                                          Yekepa                   M




                                                                                                                                             nda
                                                                fa                   L O FA                      Via
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ba




                                                                                                                                         Nia
                                                             of                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                            im
                                                                                                                                                              Nzérékoré                 N
                                                       L




                           Kongo                                                                                Gabalatuai                                                        Saniquellie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                                        Kahnple               Danané
          To                                                                                                                                                        Gahnpa
        Zimmi    GRAND                         Bopolu
                BoCAPE                                                                                            Gbarnga
7°N                                                                             l                                                                  Palala                                                                                                   7°N
                                                                         P   au
                 MOUNT                                               St.                                 Zienzu             BONG                            Yopie
                                                                                                                                                                          Sagleipie
                                           Tubmanburg
                                                                                                Totota
                                                                       Bong Town                                                                                   NIMBA
 Robertsport
                                   BOMI                                                                                                                                                                                        CÔTE
                                                                                                                                                                                               n
                                Klay
                                                                                                                                 Botata
                                                                                                                                                                             Gloie
                                                                                                                                                                                        Nu
                                                                                                                                                                                           o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D’IVOIRE
                                        Careysburg                   MARGIBI                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                             hn                Tapeta                         Toulépleu
                                                                      Katkata                                                              Jo
                                                                                                                                       St.
                                                                                                                                                                                         Tobli
                     MONROVIA                                                        GRAND
                                                                         Harbel
                                                                                     BASSA                                                   Guata                                   Poabli                     Kola Town

               MONTSERRADO                                                                                  Gaamodebi
                                                                                Hartford
6°N                                                                                                                                                                                                     Babu      Zwedru                                    6°N

                                                                      Buchanan                           Trade              RIVERCESS
                                                                                                         Town
                                                                                                                                Gonglee
                                                                                                                                                                                        GRAND GEDEH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Dube
                                                                                                                                                                                         Pyne
                                                                                                                                       tos
                                                                                                                                   Ce s       Bokoa
                                                                                                                                                             SINOE
                                                                                                     River Cess                                                                                                         Pelokehn

                                                                                                                                                       Kopo           Juazohn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Kahnwia
                 AT L A N TI C OC EAN                                                                                       Sehnkwehn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Tawake
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Tawlokehn
5°N                                                                                                                                           Greenville                                                                                                    5°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                    M
                                                                                                                                                                                        GRAND          A Nyaake
                                   LIBERIA                                                                                                                                                                 R
                                                                                                                                                                      Nana Kru
                                                                                                                                                                                         K R U Barclayville Y
I N F RAS T RUC TU R E R EH AB I LI TATI ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LA




                                                                                                                                                                                   Sasstown
                PR OJ EC T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N




                                                                                                                                                                                                        Grand Cess                 Plibo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                               INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT                                                                                                                                                                                                Tabou

                               MAJOR PORTS                                                                                                                                                                                   Harper

                               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                               COUNTY CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4°N
                               NATIONAL CAPITAL

                               RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                               0        20        40        60           80     100 Kilometers
                               MAIN ROADS

                               RAILROADS                                                                                                                       0             20                40               60 Miles

                               COUNTY BOUNDARIES

                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                       10°W                                                           9°W                                                       8°W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     JUNE 2006
