E-453
A SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL
ANALYSIS
FOR THE WATER AND SEWERAGE
SECTOR OF ST LUCIA
PREPARED BY:
TI HE NICHOLSON INSTITUTE
Villa 7, Bronsbury Villas
Alyce Glen, Trinidad
Tel: 868-683-6805
Fax:868-667-0074
e.mail: caribuildwaol.com   FILE  COPY



THE NICHOLSON INSTITUTE,
Villa 7, Bronsbury Villas
Alyce Glen, Trinidad
Tel: 868-683-6805
Fax:868-667-0074
e.mail: caribuild*aol.com
The Managing Director
Water and Sewerage Company (WASCO)
L'Anse Road
Castries
Dear Sir:
Please find attached the report entitled 'A Sectoral Environmental Analysis For The
Water and Sewerage Sector of St. Lucia'.   We trust that the analysis and
recommendations made meet with the satisfaction of WASCO and the Government of St.
Lucia.
We wish to thank officials of WASCO and the Government of St. Lucia for the kind
courtesies extended to us during the preparation of the report. We stand ready to offer
any further advice as needed.
Yours truly,
The Nicholson Institute






EXECUIIVE SUMMARY



EXECUlTIVEE SUMMARY
The Government of St. Lucia (GOSL) has applied to the Worldj Bank (WB) and the
Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) for financial assistance for a project to improve the
institutional performance of the water and sewerage sector. The project aims to:
(a)   strengthen the legal and regulatory framework of the water and sewerage
sector:
(b)   strengthen the Water and Sewerage Company's (WASCO's) human
resource capacity and operating systems;
(c)   assess the long term investment needs of the sector and develop a sector
investment programme and an appropriate structure for PSP;
(d)   develop an urgently needed investment and asset rehabilitation programme
and implementation of the consultants' recommendations; and
(d)   provide for project management and public iniormation dissemnioation
campaigns.
A preliminary review of these components indicates the project could be classified as a
Category 'B' project in accordance with both the WB's and CDB's environmental
classification systems. The major environmental issues for this project are centred around
the rationalisation and organisation of the environmental management functions in the
water and sewerage sector in St. Lucia. Therefore, a Sectoral Environmental Analysis
has been proposed.
The objectives of this consultancy assignment are defined as follows:



ii
(a)   to review the status of environmental management in St. Lucia particularly
as it relates to the water and sewerage sector;
(b)   to define measures to strengthen the water and sewerage sector capacity
for environmental management.
Variations in altitude, rainfall and soil characteristics have contributed to the wide variety
of vegetation cover of St. Lucia which is matched by great heterogeneity of habitats and
ecosystems.
St. Lucia has benefited from a number of studies related to issues identified for this
assignment.  However, GOSL has been slow  in implementating of many of the
recommendations of these studies but has, nevertheless, has taken steps towards:
(a)   strengthening of its institutional framework;
(b)   financing a number of projects and programmes; and
(c)   participating in a number of regional projects.
St. Lucia has adopted the prudent approach of allocating administrative responsibilities to
areas of Govemment according to training, experience and complementary functions of
the staff its agencies. This has led to some duplication of functions, however, this
negative effect is far outweighed by the benefit of having a manageable sized public
sector. Few changes in administrative responsibilities are recommended. These include:
(a)   The establishment of a proposed Water Resources Management Unit
within the Ministry of Planning, Development, Environment and Housing
(MPDEH);



lil
(b)   The establishment of a water quality testing and conltrol capability within
the National Water and Sewerage Colmmission to relieve the Ministry of
Health of that responsibility and the construction and equipping of a water
quality testing laboratory as part of a Central Laboratorv Complex.
There is much work to be done particularly in rationalising the environmental legislative
framework. In particular:
(a)   Amendments to the Physical Planning and Development Bill have been
proposed in the areas of specifying the referral agencies in the land
development approval process; specifically indicating that agencies of
GOSL are not exempt from seeking planning approval: and including
water and sewerage type projects in the schedule of projects requiring
Environmental  Impact  Assessments  (ElAs i.  In  addition,  a
recommendation has been made for the engagement of consultants for the
preparation of EIA Regulations to accompany the Blill.
(b)   Amendments to the Land Acquisition Ordance Cap 109 has been
suggested to allow for more innovative mechanisms for property
acquisition.
(c)    Provision  for a structure  approach to community participation  in
Environmental Management has been proposed for new Environmental
Legislation which should also provide the legis;lative framework under
which the Environment arm of MPDEH would operate as the overseeing
body for Environmental Management in St. Lucia.
The negative environmental impacts of physical developtnent in St. Lucia have
themselves impacted negatively on WASCO's ability to provide a cheap and efficient
water supply to its customers. Therefore, it is essential that projects in the sector do not
contribute to the pollution overload on St. Lucia's environment A number of temporary



lv
environmental impacts have been identified for sucht projects. Mvlitigation measures
proposed fall under the categories of public consultation, project design considerations
and adoption of best construction practices. Mitigation measures for identified permanent
impacts may require clhanges in Government policy
PSP in the water and sewerage sector will be achieved eitlher through the granting of
operator licences by NWASC or sub-licences by WASCO. In the case of the former
method of licensing, the operator could be licensed to carry out some or all of WASCO's
current functions as prescribed in The Water and Sewerage Act. In the case of the sub-
licences granted by WASCO, the functions of the sub-licensee will only be in respect of
providing water and sewerage services and services incidental to water supply and the
disposal of sewage.
The environmental legislative and administrative framework within which an operator
must act in carrying out its functions either as a licensee of WASC or a sub-licensee of
WASCO include elements of
(a)   Water resources management including a licensing, arrangement for the
winning of water;
(b)   Water quality management;
(c)   Project planning and development; and
(c)   Environmental impact assessment of projects including procedures for
classifying projects, ElAs, environmental audits, relocation of affected
residents and community participation in the EIA process.






LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS



LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
CEHI        Caribbean Environmental Healtlh Institute
CDB         Caribbean Development Bank
CIDA        Canadian International Development Agency
DFID        Department for International Development. United Kingdomn
ECDP        Environment Capacity Development Project
ENRMIRR   Environment and Natural Resource Management Institutional
Recommendations Report
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GIS         Geographic Information System
GOSL        Government of St. Lucia
EIA         Environmental Impact Assessment
MAFF        Ministry of Agriculture. Forestry and Fisheries
MCWTPU    Ministry of Communications, Works, Transport and Public Utilities
MHFAHSW   Ministry of Health
MPDEH       Ministry of Planning, Development, Environment and Housing
NCCP        National Coastal Conservation Project
NEAP        National Environmental Action Plan
NEC         National Environment Commission
NEMO        National Emergency Management Organisation
ODP         Office of Disaster Preparedness
OECS        Organisation of East Caribbean States
PPDB        Physical Planning and Development Bill
PSP         Private Sector Participation
SLNT        St. Lucia National Trust
SDC         Sustainable Development Council
SDEU        Sustainable Development and Environment Unit of IMPDEH
TOR         Terms of Reference
WB          World Bank
WASC        Water and Sewerage Commission
WASCO       Water and Sewerage Company
WEMP         Watershed and Environment Management Project
WHO         World Health Organisation



TABLE OF CONTENTS



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Executive Summary
List of Abbreviations
Chapter 1.0 Background
1.1   The Project
1.2   Environmental Considerations
1.3   Objectives
1.4   Methodology
Chapter 2.0  Physical, Demographic and Environmental Features of St. Lucia
2.1   Location
2.2   Population
2.3   Topography
2.4   Climate
2.5   Geology
2.6   Economic Conditions
2.7   Environmental Features
Chapter 3.0 Activities In Environmental Management
3.1   General
3.2   National Environmental Action Plan
3.3   Watershed and Environmental Management Project
3.4   Environmental Capacity Development Project
3.5   Northwest Coastal Conservation Project
3.6   OECS Solid and Ship Generated Waste Management Project
Chapter 4.0 National Administrative and Legislative Framevwork
4.1   Institutional Arrangements
4.2   International Cooperation
Chapter 5.0  Water and Sewerage Sector Environmental Issues
5.1   Sector Organisation
5.2   Sector Performance
5.3   Sector Issues
Chapter 6.0 Environmental Assessment
6. 1   National Issues



6.2   Sector Issues
6.3   Environmental Impact Assessment Of Projects In the Sector
6.4   Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures
6.5   Environmental Monitoring
Chapter 7.0 Environmental Sectoral Plan
7.1   General
7.2   Water Resources Management
7.3   Water Quality Management
7.4   Project Planning and Development
Appendicies
2.1   Endemic Fauna and Flora For St. Lucia
4.1    GOSL Agencies With Responsibility For The Environment
4.2   St. Lucia Principal Environmental Laws






CHAPTER ONE
A SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS FOR
THE WATER AND SEWERAGE SECTOR OF ST
LUCIA



A SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
FOR THE WATER AND SEWERAGE SECTOR OF ST. LUCIA
1.0 BACKGROUND
1.1   The Project
The Government of St. Lucia (GOSL) has applied to the World B3ank (WB) and the
Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) for financial assistance for a project to improve the
institutional performance of the water and sewerage sector. Components of the project
are:
(a)    Techniical Assistanice to strenigtheni the legal anid regulatory framework of
the water and sewerage sector - This component of the project will assist
the Government of St. Lucia (GOSL) in strengthening the legal and
regulatory framework of the water and sewerage sector to facilitate private
sector participation (PSP), while protecting the interests of customers.
(b)   Technical Assistance to strenigthent the Water and Sewerage Companiy's
(WASCO's) humani resource capacity anid operatinig systems - This
component of the project comprises three elements:
(i)   an assessment of WASCO's human resources and the suitability
of existing staff to undertake proposed job functions,
(ii)  the definition and implementation of short-term and on-the-job
training courses; and
(iii)  the review and development of a system  for managerial and
operational information.



(c)    Techtnical Assistanice to assess the lonig term  investment nieeds of the
sector an7d develop a sector investment programime anzd ani appropriate
structure for PSP - Under this component of the pro.ject consultants will
be engaged to:
(i)   review the status of water and sewerage services in St. Lucia;
(ii)   develop options for meeting St. Lucia's demand for water and
sewerage services over a 25 year planning horizon;
(iii)   develop a financial, model including scenario and sensitivity
analyses, to provide a basis for PSP;
(iv)   prepare procedures for the transaction process including bidding
documents; and
(v)    advise GOSL in the transaction process.
(d)    Technical Assistance for the enigagemenit of conisultanits to develop ant
urgetntly needed itnvestmenit anid asset rehabilitation programme atnd
implemenitationi of the conisultatnts' recommenidationis - The consultancy
component has already been completed and has recommended:
(i)   improvements to several water and sewerage systems including
intakes, water treatment plants and sewage lift stations;
(ii)   rehabilitation of sections of the transmission system;
(iii)   purchase and installation of bulk and micrc, meters and air valves;
and



3
(iv)  serviceability assessment and repair of water mains to reduce the
level of unaccounted-for-water.
CDB is currently considering a loan to finance the implementation of the
consultants' recommendations
(d)   Technical Assistanzce for project matagemenit anda' public iniformationt
disseminationi campaigns - This component will finance the salary of
members of a Project Implementation Unit and the Managing Director
who will be responsible for the implementation of the project and the
management of WASCO respectively during a 3-year transition period. In
addition, a public information dissemination campaign, which will include
public hearings and workshops to foster consensus on the PSP process,
will also be financed.
1.2   Environmental Considerations
A preliminary review of the project components indicates that only the implementation of
component (c) could have significant adverse environmental irapacts on the human
population of St. Lucia or environmentally important areas such as wetlands, forests and
other natural habitats.  The sub-projects for component (c) are not known at this time.
However, the environmental impacts are likely to be site-specific, few are expected to be
irreversible, and mitigation measures can be readily designed and implemented.
Therefore, the project has been classified as a Category 'B' project in accordance with
both the WB's and CDB's environmental classification systems.
GOSL has been very conscious of its responsibility to be the primary focal point for
environmental management in St. Lucia. In pursuance of this responsibility, GOSL has
undertaken a number of activities including the preparation of a National Environmental
Action Plan (NEAP). In addition, GOSL has developed its institutional capacity through
revisions and/or enactment of a number of laws and regulations, improvement in its



4
organisational structure and exposure of its staff to a wide spectrum of environmental
training and development. However, GOSL has been slow in implementing a number of
key recommendations made by consultants over the years. Thereforn, there is still much
to be done to improve GOSL's environmental management services. In particular, if
WASCO is to have a private operator, there must be a clear definition of the requirements
and environmental responsibilities of both the private operator, on the one hand, and the
regulatory agencies on the other.
The major environmental issues for this project are centred around the rationalisation and
organisation of the environmental management functions in the water and sewerage
sector in St. Lucia. Therefore, a Sectoral Environmental Analysis is being proposed. The
components of this analysis will comprise:
(a)   an assessment of the institutional capacity of environmental agencies in
the country focusing, in particular, on those which impact on the water and
sewerage sector and the definition of capacity building measures;
(b)   a determination of the laws that must be observed and regulations and
procedures that must be followed in:
(i)   carrying out environmental management functions, including those
required for effective water resources and quality management;
(ii)   conducting Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) for water
and sewerage projects; and
(iii)  the continuous monitoring  and evaluation of environmental
management functions and mitigation measures.
1.3   Objectives



5
The objectives of this consultancy assignment are defined as follows:
(a)   to review  the status of environmental management in St Lucia
particularly as it relates to the water and sewerage sector;
(b)   to define measures to strengthen the water and sewerage sector
capacity for environmental management.
1.4   Methodology
In carrying out the assignment, meetings were held with officials of WASCO; the
Ministries of Planning, Development, Environment and Housing (hlPDEH); Agriculture,
Lands, Forestry and Fisheries (MAFF); Health, Family Affairs, Human Services and
Women (Ministry of Health); and Communications, Works, T ransport and Public
Utilities (MCWTPU) and the St. Lucia National Trust (SLNT). These officials not only
gave valuable insights into the day-to-day function of environmeni al management in St.
Lucia but gave freely, their own recommendations for changes that would be necessary
for the proper functioning of this important aspect of GOSL's operations. In addition, a
number of reports from previous studies and internal (Government) reports were
reviewed. Information recorded from these reports are referenced within the body of this
report. A number of WB and CDB staff reports and publications were also reviewed. In
particular extensive use was made of WB's Environmental Assessment Sourcebook
Updates 'Sectoral Environmental Assessment' and 'Environmental Management Plan' to
clear up areas of uncertainty in the Terms of Reference (TOR) provided.






CHAPTER TWO
PHYSICAL, DEMOGRAPHIC AND
ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES OF ST LUCIA



6
2.0   PHYSICAL, DEMOGRAPHIC AND ENVIRONMENTAlL, FEATURES
OF ST. LUCIA
2.1   Location
St. Lucia has an area of approximately 616 square Kilometres, r1aking it one of the
largest islands in the Or ganisation of East Caribbean States (OEC'S). The island lies
between latitude 130 43'N and 140 07'N and longitude 600 53'W to 610 05'W and is
approximately 43 km long by 22 km wide. The Atlantic Ocean washes the windward or
eastern coast and the Caribbean Sea, the leeward or western coast of the island.
Therefore, many of the sheltered bays and bathing beaches lie on the western coast of the
island. The northwestern coast of the island, in particular, has been developed for
communication and commerce at the Castries harbour and recreational activity (yacht
anchorage and bathing) at the many bays stretching from the La Toc bay south of
Castries to Rodney Bay and beyond in the North.
2.2   Population
The Government Statistics Department estimates the current population at 156,260 with a
growth rate at 1.21% per annum. The capital city, Castries, with a population density of
710 persons per sq. km is the most densely populated area in St. Lucia. Other areas of
high to moderately high population densities are Gros Islet in the riorthwest, also the area
of highest tourism infrastructure; and Vieux Fort in the south of the island.
2.3   Topography
The topography of the island could be described as mountainous.  It has a central
mountain ridge, known as the Barre de L'lsle, running parallel to the West Coast rising to
a maximum elevation of 950 m at Mt. Gimie. All of the other mountain ridges rise to
elevations below 400m.



7
Many rivers and streams cut the mountain ridges forming steep sided gullies and narrow
valleys. Over half the island has slopes greater than 200 and more than 70% of the island
has slopes over 10°. The island could be divided into 37 main watersheds. One such
watershed in the upper reaches of the Roseau valley has been dammed to form the John
Compton Dam and impounding reservoir that feeds the Theobalds Water Treatment
Plant, forming the largest water supply system on the island. The slopes of cuts are often
unstable and when exposed are susceptible to landslides. On the coast, the rivers flow
into narrow alluvial flood plains often forming small alluvial deltas.
2.4    Climate
St. Lucia enjoys a tropical climate with little annual or diurnal variation in temperature.
Maximum daily temperatures range between 300 to 330 C with minimum of 160 to 210 C.
Rainfall distribution across the island varies considerably. The total annual rainfall is
approximately 1,200 mm at the northern and southern ends of the island but rises to over
3500 mm near Mt. Gimie.
Although the distribution of rainfall across the island is large, the pattern of rainfall
across the island is the same. There is a dry season that runs from January to June and a
wet season from June to December.
2.5    Geology
Almost all of St. Lucia is composed of volcanic rocks of Tertiary to Quaternary age.
Radiocarbon dating gives the last volcanic eruptive phase at some 30,000 to 40,000 years
ago although, at present, there are signs of volcanic activity at the sulphur springs at
Soufriere on the West Coast.
The oldest rocks are found mainly in the region north of an imaginary line joining the Cul
de Sac Valley to Grand Anse Bay. A central series of younger rocks forms the main
mountain mass with a third younger series in the south and southwest centered on



8
Soufriere. In the south, around Vieux Fort, the rocks are older, and comparable to the
northern series.
The rocks of the northern series, north of the Barre de L'isle systern, are mainly basaltic
and comprise lava flows, agglomerates and mudflows. Andesites also occur in this area.
Agglomerates formed by explosive eruption of volcanoes and consisting of a mixture of
boulders, cobbles and ash are also found in the northern area. Where there are no gravel-
sized particles, the deposit is an ash. If the ash is consolidated, a luff is formed. Tuffs
are not widespread in the northern part of the Island. Mudflows are found resembling
agglomerates, but consisting of boulders in a matrix. These boulders are sometimes
large.
The central area, corresponding to the Barre de L'lsle land system contains hard
columnar andesites. Towards the East Coast, the rock consists mainly of andesitic
agglomerates and ashes and are similar to those found in Anse La Raye on the West
Coast.
At the southern border of the central series, basaltic rocks occur in the Mt. Gimie and
Piton St. Esprit systems. Andesitic agglomerates are also found north of Soufriere but,
also occur further south. To the south and east of Soufriere the main deposit is a pumice
flow, consisting of a loose light-colored porous sandy deposit.
2.6    Economic Conditions
Notwithstanding its small land area, exacerbated by its rugged terrain; its small
population; and limited natural resource base; St. Lucia's economy could be regarded as
having performed well over the last two decades fueled by activity in the agricultural and
tourism sectors.



9
The country's fertile volcanic soil has provided the resource base for a vibrant
agricultural sector. This sector which is dominated by banana production, has, between
1995 to 1999, contributed an annual average of 8.5% of GDP. However a combination
of:
(a)   recent changes in the European Union's import preference regime and
increased competition from Latin American bananas;
(b)   weakening of European currencies;
(c)   unfavourable weather conditions: and
(d)   efforts by GOSL for crop diversification;
have contributed to a steady decline in banana output and farmers leaving the industry.
Another of the islands natural resources, its natural beauty and long expanses of white
sandy beaches washed by calm waters, has been exploited in support of tourism. The
tourism sector (as measured by the hotel and restaurant sub-sector) has. between 1995 to
1999. contributed an average of 18.5% of GDP. Total visitor arrivals continue to grow at
an average rate of 3.5% per annum.
In 1999, St. Lucia recorded a modest rate of inflation of 3.5%, the highest for the period
1996 to 1999. In keeping with worldwide trends, the country could be expected to
maintain low rates of inflation in the short to medium term. Its average exchange rate,
which is set by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank and has been fixed since 1976, is
pegged at EC$2.7 per US$.



l0
2.7    Environmental Features
Variations in altitude, rainfall and soil characteristics have contributed to the wide variety
of vegetation cover of St. Lucia that ranges from tropical wet forest, tropical dry forest;
tropical moist forest, sub-tropical moist forest to sub-tropical rain forest and wetlands.
Approximately 43% of the island's coverage falls under the category of tropical wet
forest. It is estimated that the rate of deforestation is approximately 1.9% per annum. Up
to 1988 St. Lucia had lost up to 40% of its wetlands through reclamation and other forms
of physical land transformation.
The variation in vegetation cover is matched by great heterogeneity of habitats and
ecosystems. In the coastal zone areas, the ecosystems comprise mangroves, sea grass
beds, coral reefs and sandy beaches.   According to Devaux, Rj.,3 in the terrestrial
environment, the diversity continues with wetlands; varying vegetation zones; riverine
ecosystems and ecosystems created by micro-climatic, edaphic and other factors in
valleys, canyons and on mountains. The foregoing accounts for St. Lucia's wide variety
of fauna and flora. Appendix 2.1 presents endemic fauna and flora of St. Lucia. Of
particular note is the plight of the endangered Jacquot (St. Lucia Parrot) which has its
habitat in the mountainous tropical wet forest areas. The John Compton Dam was built
within the natural habitat of Jacquot. As part of the environmental mitigation measures
for that project, a plan was successfully put in place for the protection of this natural
treasure of St. Lucia. There is no evidence to suggest that the construction of the dam
significantly affected the population of the bird.
St. Lucia has designated a number of sites across the island as protected areas. These
protected areas have been put under special management status to ensure that the
resources they contain are maintained and made accessible for sustainable uses
compatible with conservation requirements. The first protected area in St. Lucia dates
back to 1916 when the Castries Waterworks Reserve was set up. This reserve now forms
3 Ecological and Historical Overview Devaux, R.J. in A System of Protected Areas for St. Lucia SLNT,
1992



11
part of the St. Lucia Forest Reserve. Since that time, other protected areas comprising
archaeological and historic sites; and marine, nature and forest reserves have been
established. A full listing together with annotated maps of St. Lucia", protected areas can
be found in the publication 'A System of Protected Areas for St. Lucia' put out by the
SLNT in 1992.






CHAPTER THREE
ACTIVITIES IN ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT



12
3.    ACTIVITIES IN ENVIORNMENTAL MANAGEMENT
3.1    General
St. Lucia has benefited from a number of studies related to issues identified for this
assignment. Within recent times, notwithstanding its reluctance to follow through with
the implementation of many of the recommendations of these studies, GOSL has taken
steps towards:
(a)   strengthening of its institutional framework;
(b)   financing a number of projects and programmes; and
(c)   participating in a number of regional projects.
3.2    National Environmental Action Plan
In 1994, the World Bank assisted GOSL in the formulation of a NE,kP. NEAP took three
years to be completed. Implementation of NEAP was, at that time, the major thrust by
GOSL to deal with the major environmental issues facing the islarid. The Plan gave the
strategies to be adopted to deal with St. Lucia's major environmeni:al issues and outlined
a plan of action for implementation. Environmental issues identified in the Plan included,
initer alia:
(a)   The impact of St. Lucia's physical development on the biodiversity of the
island's ecosystems;
(b)   The effects of agricultural practices on the environment, in particular, its
contribution to the rate of deforestation and the pollution of water courses
by agro-chemicals:



13
(c)    The continued pollution of coastal waters by sewerage and other effluents;
(d)    Land based pollution by solid and liquid wastes generated by human
activity;
(e)    Unacceptable coastal zone management practices including illegal sand
mining; and
(f)   Inadequacies  in  the  institutional  framework  for  environmental
management.
NEAP had been adopted as Government Policy by the administration of the day. The
Sustainable Development, Science and Technology Unit of the then Ministry of Finance,
Planning, Development and Environment had been given tthe responsibility for
monitoring and implementing the Action Plan. Subsequent to the elections of 1997, there
was a shift in administrative responsibilities with the environment portfolio being placed
under MAFF. A shift in focus followed and implementation of measures outlined in the
plan ceased. A major element of NEAP, the establishment of a 'National Environment
Commission (NEC) did not materialise.
3.3    Watershed and Environmental Management Project
In 1995. as part of the Watershed and Environment Management Project (WEMlP)
financed by the World Bank and the Department for International Development, United
Kingdom (DFID) after the passage of Tropical Storm Debbie4 consultants, financed by
DFID, were engaged to prepare a strategy for the sustainable management of St. Lucia's
37 watersheds.   Under that assignment the consultants performed. itifer alia, a
comprehensive review of environmental related legislation and institutions, paying
4Tropical Storm Debbie deposited up to 370 mm of rainfall in some areas ov er n10 hour period resulting
in massive landslides an7dfloodin7g. Thefloods caused 4 deaths. destro,:ed hom5s, and disrupted electneiit
and water supplies. Damage to infrastructure was estimated at between EC950-60nmn and losses to the
agr2cultural sector some EC$150mn.



14
particular attention to those related to watershed management.. Recommendations
were made for institutional rationalisation and strengthening, the strengthening of the
environmental legislative framework and the further involvement of community based
organisations in environmental management. Little if any of the recommendations of the
WEMP study has been implemented.
3.4   Environmental Capacity Development Project
The Canadian Intemational Development Agency (CIDA) is currently financing the
regional Environmental Capacity Development Project (ECDP).  Under ECDP a
comprehensive review of all environmental related legislation and institutions is
currently being undertaken. At the time of writing this assignrment, the consultants
were engaged in the preparation of a report on the project to be entitled 'Environment and
Natural Resource Management Institutional Recommendations Report' (ENRMIRR).
It is expected that ENRMIRR will, inter alia, present a draft strategic plan for the
estabLishment of a coordinated and integrated legal and institutional framework for
environmental management and sustainable development in St. Lucia. Specifically the
report should identify the following:
(a)   institutional  and  legal  changes  that would  facilitate  improved
environmental management with emphasis placed on the streamlining of
activities, maximising the use of existing resources and minimising
duplication of roles and responsibilities. Particular attention will be given
to the identification of opportunities for private sector and community
participation and involvement in environment management:
(b)   critical limiting factors, including regulatory, insti.tutional, human and/or
financial and the most cost-effective solutions to these limitations;



15
(c)   appropriate mechanisms to facilitate improved inter-sectoral coordination
administration and infonnation dissemination;
(d)   training needs in the short, medium and long term;
(e)   environmental issues requiring further analysis; and
(f)   mechanisms for linkages to the Integrated Development Planning Process
currently being executed by GOSL.
ECDP is being coordinated by the Sustainable Development and Environment Unit
(SDEU) of MPDEH. If the objectives of ECDP are met, implementation of its outputs
should result in the full functioning of SDEU, with the capacity to administer and oversee
all aspects of environmental management in St. Lucia. In addition the NEC, to be
renamed the National Sustainable Development Council (SDC), will be established. It is
expected that the mandate of SDC will be to:
(a)   provide guidance and advice to GOSL and to quasi-governmental and
non-govemmental organisations (NGOs) on environmental matters;
(b)   coordinate the inputs of Govemmental and NGOs, as well as private sector
organisations and interests in environmental management in St. Lucia; and
(c)   assist with the design and delivery of training in environmental matters.
3.5   Northwest Coastal Conservation Project
The Govemment of St. Lucia has embarked on a coastal conservation project, the
Northwest Coastal Conservation Project (NCCP). The objective of NCCP is to develop
an integrated planning and management programme that will address not only the current
environmental and development pressures along St. Lucia's North-West coastline, but



16
also the long-term restoration, protection, maintenance and sustainability of the natural,
cultural and economic coastal resources. The major output from the project will be a
Coastal Zone Management Plan for the project area. Having completed pre- and full
feasibility studies, the project is in its implementation phase.
3.6   OECS Solid and Ship-Generated Waste Management Project
St. Lucia is one of the six countries of OECS benefiting from a project aimed at reducing
the amount of solid waste generated by residential and business activity on-land and
improve the collection and disposal of such waste and that generated by ships plying the
Caribbean waters. A grant from the Global Environmental Trust Fund and loans and
grants from the CDB and the WB are financing the project.






CHAPTER FOUR
NATIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE AND l EGISLATIVE
FRAMEWORK



17
4.0 NATIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE AND LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORK
4.1   Institutional Arrangements
4.1.1 Adrministration
Appendix 4.1 summarises in a matrix Government Departments and, Agencies with their
respective environmental responsibilities. The information presented in the matrix is
essentially taken from the National Environmental Action Plan. However, the Appendix
and the following narrative, reflects changes in the names of Ministries and
responsibilities since the preparation of the Plan. The roles and re.sponsibilities of the
various Ministries, Departments and Statutory Authorities are clearly defined either
through assignments by the Prime Minister as head of Government or through relevant
legislation.
While the number of Ministries and Govemment Agencies involved in environmental
management might appear to be large and unwieldy, it reflects the realities of a small
state attempts to grapple with the different sectoral interests involved in environmental
management. St. Lucia has taken the prudent approach of allocating environmental
responsibilities to the various agencies of Government according to the skills and
experience of, and complementary duties being performed by staff an agency. This has
led to some duplication of finctions, however, this negative effeci. is far outweighed by
the benefit of having a manageable sized public sector. In very few instances, this report
recommends changes to existing arrangements.
Responsibility for the environment is shared between:
(a)   The Ministries of.
(i)    Prime Minister's Office and Cabinet



18
(ii)   Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries
(iii)  Health, Family Affairs, Human Services and Women
(iv)   Planning, Development, Environment and Housing;
(v)   Community Development, Culture, Local Government and Co-
Operatives;
(vi)   Communications, Works, Transport and Public Utilities;
(vii)  Legal Affairs, Home Affairs and Labour; and
(viii) Tourism and Civil Aviation
(b)   Solid Waste Management Authority;
(c)   St. Lucia Air and Sea Ports Authority;
(d)   National Water and Sewerage Commission (NWASC);
(e)   WASCO; and
(f)   SLNT.
4.1.2  Legislation
Like other countries in the region St. Lucia has a plethora of environmental related
legislation. Appendix 4.2 summarises the full listing of the 32 pieces of environmental
related legislation together with the issues covered by each piece of legislation compiled



19
by the MPDEH as at February, 2000. No environmental legislation has been tabled in
Parliament since that time.
A Caribbean Law Institute report dated 1991 stated that the legislative provision for
environmental control, at that time, appeared to be inadequate in terms of primary
legislation, implementing regulations and enforcement provisions. Further, much of the
legislation was outdated and did not reflect modern approaches to environmental
regulation and management. Since that time, efforts have been mide at improving the
institutional framework for environmental management through the enactment of
(a)   St. Lucia Solid Waste Management Act, 1996
(d)   Water and Sewerage Act, 1999; and
(e)   National Conservation Authority Act, 1999.
In addition, the regulation mechanisms have been strengthened through the enactment of
the:
(a)   Land Conservation and Improvement Act, 1992;
(b)   Fisheries Regulations, 1994 (under the Fisheries Acd., 1984);
(c)   Merchant Shipping (Oil Pollution) Act, 1996;
(d)   Land Development Control Act, 1990 and 1998 as amended; and
(c)   Environmental Protection Levy Act, 1999.
4.1.3  The Administrative Matrix



20
The Prime Minister's Office has responsibility for the Office of Disaster Preparedness
(ODP), the agency that carries out GOSL's policies with respect to dlisaster management.
ODP is supported by the National Emergency Management Organisation (NEMO) which
itself is divided into 6 smaller committees responsible for Information, Transportation,
Telecommunications, Management of Supplies, Health and Welfare and Emergency
Works.  Whereas the disaster preparedness and response aspects of disaster
management in St. Lucia appear to be adequate, the same cannot be said for
disaster mitigation. There is still need for improvement in the areas of hazard
mapping and in establishing building regulations and standards. These two matters
must, however, be addressed by the MPDEH which has the resources and authority to
take action.
MAFF is responsible for carrying out GOSL's policies for agriculture and matters
pertaining to lands, forestry and fisheries. MAFF administers a nu nber of Acts relevant
to environmental management including the Forest, Soil and Water Conservation
Ordinance, 1946 as amended in 1983; the Crown Lands Ordinance, the Beach Protection
Act, 1967; the Pesticides Control Act, 1975 and its Regulations; the Wild Life Protection
Act, 1980; the Agricultural Small Tenancies Act, 1983; the Animals (Disease and
Importation) Ordinance as amended in 1994; Fisheries Act, l 984; and the Land
Conservation and Improvement Act, 1992.
Of these acts, MAFF has accepted the recommendations of the WEMP consultants that
the Agricultural Small Tenancies Act is no longer needed and should be repealed,
however no action has been taken. Deficiencies in the Wild Life Protection Act related to
the protection of flora have been identified, however, officials in the Ministry believe that
provisions of the Forest, Soil and Water Conservation Ordinance adequately cover this
matter so that gaps in that legislation have been filled. Issues related to amendments to
the Forestry, Soil and Water Conservation Ordinance, Beach Protection Act, 1967 as
amended in 1984 and/or the Water and Sewerage Act, 1999 as they relate to an integrated
water resources management approach will be dealt with in Chapter 5.



21
The Ministry of Health has responsibility for public and environmental health and
administers the Litter Act, 1971 as amended in 1984, 1990 and 1998 and the Public
Health Act, 1975. Under the Public Health Act, 1975, The Ministry of Health also has
responsibility for the control of the quality of water supply and wastewater disposal.
However, that Ministry:
(a)   has not published standards for potable water quality or effluent discharge
standards; and
(b)   does not possess the laboratory equipment to carry out its functions.
Issues relating to amendments to the Public Health Act and/or the Water and Sewerage
Act as they relates to the control of water quality will be dealt with in Chapter 5.
MPDEH has under its portfolio both physical and development planning in addition to
environmental and housing matters. For matters pertaining to physical development,
MPDEH administers the Land Development (Interim Control) Act as amended in 1984,
1990 and 1998. Recognising the Limitations of the Land Development (Interim Control)
Act Act, MPDEH has drafted the Physical Planning and Development Bill (PPDB) that is
scheduled to be tabled in Parliament in the near future.
Salient features and recommended amendments to PPDB are:
(a)   The streamlining of the land development approval process by requiring
the Head of the Physical Planning and Development Division of MPDEH
to formulate an administrative scheme for coorclination between that
division and the referral agencies. The referral agencies in question have
not been spelt out in the Bill, but it is recommended that such agencies
should include MCWTPU, WASCO, the Ministry of Health and
SDEU.



22
(b)   Procedures for the preparation of physical development plans for St. Lucia
as a whole or for any specific parl of St. Lucia.
(c)   Provision that no development of any land should take place without the
permission of the Head of the Physical Planning Division. The thorny
issue of whether Government Departments and Statutory Authorities
are excluded has not been specifically addressed by the Bill.
(d)   PPDB will see, for the first time, the undertaking of Environmental Impact
Assessments on the statute books of St. Lucia.  A list of types of
developments for which an EIA will be mandatory has been published as a
schedule to the PPDB. PPDB also makes provision for the Head of the
Physical Planning and Development Division to make regulations for
the undertaking of ElAs. MPDEH should immediately seek funding to
engage consultants to draw-up such regulations so that there is no
time-lag between the passage of the Bill and bringing into force,
regulations governing the conduct of ElAs.
After meetings with several officials of MPDEH, there is still no clear picture of GOSL's
intentions with regards to a Geographic Information System (GIS) for St. Lucia. A GIS
is regarded as essential for effective and efficient economic, physical and environmental
development planning. GOSL should therefore seek funding for the engagement of
consultants to review the status of implementation and make recommendations for the
completion of a comprehensive GIS in the shortest period of time.
MPDEH also has responsibility for the National Solid Waste Management Authority
which was set up and operates under the St. Lucia Solid Waste Management Act, 1996 as
amended in 1997. With respect to housing, MPDEH administers the Housing and Urban
Corporation Act, 1992 under which the Urban Development Corporation was set up; and
the Slum Clearance and Housing Ordinance.



23
MPDEH administers the St. Lucia National Trust Act, 1975 under which the SLNT5
operates and the National Conservation Authority Act, 1999 under which the National
Conservation Authority (NCA)6 operates. SLNT is regarded as the principal Community
Based Organisation in St. Lucia. However, because it relies, to a large extent, on grants
from Government its effectiveness in dealing with environmentally sensitive issues
involving Government Agencies is somewhat stymied.
SLNT has coordinated the preparation of a systems plan for parks and protected areas for
St. Lucia. The purpose of the system is to establish a broad network of marine and
terrestrial areas which would allow for protecting, conserving and managing the
country's biological and cultural diversity, while also providing for sustainable utilisation
to meet socio-economic development objectives.7
NEAP had adopted several of the measures recommended in the SLNT's protected areas
system. These include the development of a broad national policy on cultural heritage
including, inter alia:
(a)    preservation and management guidelines (particularly for the benefit of
areas in private ownership);
(b)    a framework  for institutional collaboration  including  public-private
partnerships; and
(c)   innovative mechanisms for property acquisition by the state.
While some of these measures have been included in the National Conservation
Authority Act, 1999 and others are to be addressed under the PDl'B, recommendations
5 The mandateof the SLNT is to protect and preserve the natural and cultural environment of St. Lucia
SLNT works in close collaboration with the Caribbean Natural Resource lnstitule and other organisations
involved in resource conservation.
6 The National Conservation Authority provides for the care and management of public parks and beaches.
Taken from the National Environmental Action Plan



24
with respect to the thorny issue of property acquisition need to be implemented
through appropriate amendments to the Land Acquisition Ordiniance Cap 109.
The Ministry of Community Development, Culture, Local Government and Co-Operatives
role in environmental management, is in respect of administering grants and coordinating
the activities of village and town councils. Currently, these organisations play an ad hoc
role in environmental management and have been involved, on a few occasions, in
organising public consultations on environmental matters. Environmental legislation
proposed under ECDP must spell out a specific role for these and other community
based organisations in environmental management. Specifically, to enhance the role
that these organisations can play in environmental management, EIA Regulations,
to be developed, must also set out a framework for public consultations in the EIA
process.
MCWTPU is the department of Government with responsibility for the NWASC and
WASCO which were both set up under the Water and Sewerage Act, 1999. That
Ministry is also responsible for the Air and Sea Ports Authority which was set up under
the St. Lucia Air and Sea Ports Authority Act, 1983 and its Regulations. The Ministry is
also responsible for the Maritime Areas Act, 1984 which has incoiporated into local law,
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Seas (UNCLOS Lll).
The Ministry of Tourism and Civil Aviation has the responsibility for administering the
National Conservation Authority Act, 1999 under which the National Conservation
Authority was set up. This agency carries out the maintenance and beautification of the
islands national parks and beaches.
4.2  International Cooperation
St. Lucia actively participates in the activities of a number of international and regional
environmental organisations including, inzter alia:   OECS  (Natural Resources
Management Unit), CEHI and United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural



25
Organisation. St. Lucia has also ratified international agreements in the areas of
biodiversity, climate change, desertification, endangered species, environmental
modification, hazardous wastes, law of the sea, marine dumping of ship generated waste,
ozone layer protection and whaling. One of the role to be played by SDEU when the
ENRMIRR is implemented is to ensure that St. Lucia's environmental management effort
in is line with these international agreements.






CHAPTER FIVE
WATER AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUE.S



26
5.  WATER AND SEWERAGE SECTOR ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
5.1   Sector Organisation
NWASC was established in accordance with the provisions of the Water and Sewerage
Act, to carry out GOSL's policy with respect to matters pertaining, initer alia, to the use
of water resources and the collection and disposal of sewage. Under provisions of the
same Act, NWASC has granted WASCO, as the First Company, the first licence for 25
years:
(a)   to provide the people of St. Lucia with an adequate water service and any
other incidental service or facilities; and
(b)   to provide the service for the removal of sewage by rneans of the sewerage
system.
WASCO has been granted powers under the Act to itself grant sub-licences to operators
but, only in respect of the provision of water and sewerage services.
5.2   Sector Performance
WASCO's records show that 98% of the population of St. Lucia have access to a piped
water supply. Seventy-five percent of those with access to a piped supply of water have
private connections while the remainder use standpipes. All WASCO's treatment plants
are fed raw water form surface sources. Current monthly production from WASCO's 32
production systems is 2,416 million gallons. Apart from the Theobalds Water Treatment
Plant in Ciceron, the water production systems are generally old and in need of repair.
Currently 6.5% of the population is connected to central sewerage systems. Of this, 4.8%
is located in Castries where there is no treatment system. The other major sewerage
system in the Rodney Bay area is relatively new and provides secondary treatment of



27
sewage utiising a stabilisation pond system. Forty-nine percent of the population utilise
pit latrines, 29.3% septic tanks, 4.3% other methods (including communal facilities).
Eleven percent of the population has no access to excreta disposal facilities.
The expansion in the tourism industry has led to an increase in the number of hotel rooms
and a corresponding increase in the number of privately operated. sewage treatment
plants. For the most part these plants do not meet minimum criteria for effluent
discharge8, and discharge partially and untreated effluents into the nearshore waters.
5.3   Sector Issues
The most significant water and sewerage sector environmental issues relate to:
(a)   water resources management; and
(b)   management of the quality of water supply and effluents.
5.3.1  Water Resources Management
There are many areas of overlap in administrative responsibility in the management of
water resources in St. Lucia. There are, also, inadequacies in the existing legislation.
NWASC, WASCO and MAFF all share responsibility for water resources management.
The Water and Sewerage Act, 1999 makes WASCO, as the First C(ompany licensed by
NWASC, responsible to 'take such action as may be necessary or expedient for the
purpose of conserving, redistributing or otherwise augmenting vvater resources in St.
Lucia'. Further, the Act mandates WASCO's to:
(a)   prepare and thereafter keep under review  a hydrometric scheme for
obtaining, recording and analysing particulars of rainfall, evaporation of
water and the flow level or volume of inland waters,
1993 PAHO Study "Assessment of Operational Status of Waste Water Treatment Plants in the Caribbean"



28
(b)   carry out periodical surveys of water consumption patterns in St. Lucia
and prepare reports on them;
(c)   prepare estimates of the future demand for the use of water;
(d)   prepare plans for the purpose of securing the more efficient management
of water in St. Lucia, including the meeting of future demands for water
and the use of water; and
(e)   carry out such engineering or other operations as it considers necessary or
expedient for the purpose of implementing any plan prepared under
paragraph (d).
The Water and Sewerage Act, 1999, therefore, appears to give WASCO the prime
responsibility for water resources management with a mandate to consult NWASC and
any other Ministry or statutory authority likely to be affected by its actions, in this regard.
In practice, however, possibly because the major water resources management issue in St.
Lucia, deforestation, is closely linked to agricultural production, MAFF has assumed fill
responsibility for water resources management. In pursuance of this responsibility, that
Ministry carries out hydrological data collection and establishes and maintains and
collects data from a system of 33 rain gauging stations.
The situation is further compounded by the provision in the Water and Sewerage Act,
1999 which require WASCO, in situations where the storage capacity or sanitation of a
gathering ground is seriously threatened, to seek action from MAFF under the Forest,
Soil and Water Conservation Ordinance, in declaring that that gathering ground is a
forest reserve or a protected forest.



29
A similar situation exists for threats to water quality brought abowt by the presence of
animals. In this instance WASCO must seek action from the Minister of Health, under
the Public Health Act, 1975 in declaring that that gathering ground is a controlled area.
Only upon the failure of either Minister to take action does WASC'() have the authority
itself to take action, but only so far as to dispose of the animals that pose the threat to the
storage capacity or sanitation of the gathering ground.
5.3.2 Water Resources Management In WASCO
WASCO is in no position to carry out its water resources management functions. The
situation as it exists presents WASCO with:
(a)   no clear policy direction from Government; and
(b)   lack of authority to carry out the responsibilities as the principal water
resources agency.
In addition, the following issues are apparent in WASCO's operations:
(a)   low priority given to water resources management vis-a-vis water supply
and sewerage;
(b)   non-assignment of staff with specialist training to carry out water
resources management functions; and
(c)    a dearth of facilities for water resources related infonmation management.



30
5.3.3 Integrated Water Resources Management
MAFF for its part, is currently implementing a Water Resources Management Project
with financial assistance from The European Union. This project is aimed at improving
the management of St. Lucia's water resources. In particular, issues related to the use of
water for water supply purposes by the WASCO and irrigation by farmers are to be
addressed. The project will also see the drafting of Regulations and the setting up of a
Water Resources Management Unit. Staff at MAFF with responsibility for implementing
the project intend to recommend the adoption of an Integrated Water Resources
Management approach to water resources management.
Integrated Water Resources Management is intended to:
(a)   cover all types of freshwater bodies, including surface and ground waters
and coastal waters:
(b)   consider both quality and quantity aspects;
(c)   recognise the multi-sectoral nature of water resources management in the
context of sustainable economic development and keep the vital links
between poverty, growth and the environment; and
(d)   recognise the multi-interest utilisation of water resources for, inter alia,
water supply and sanitation, agriculture, industry, urban development,
recreation and land management.
This wider mandate is clearly outside the capacity and primary interest of WASCO
and/or the NWASC.
A Water Resources Management Unit is being proposed with the mandate to:



31
(a)   establish and keep inventories of all water resources in St. Lucia;
(b)   issue, record and administer licenses and permits for water use;
(c)   regulate the use of water;
(d)   protect water from depletion and contamination; and
(e)   advise GOSL on policies and legislation on water related issues.
Staff at MAFF have taken the lead in the establishment of the Water Resources
Management Unit and naturally expect that the Unit will form rnart of that Ministry.
However, there are several organisational models under which the Water Resources
Management Unit could operate. These include:
(a)   an inidepenzdent body - This has the advantage of having an organisation
focused solely on water resources management and unbiased management
of its responsibilities. However, such a unit would result in a further
expansion of St. Lucia's already burgeoning public sector.
(b)   attached to an agenicy already partiall/ carrving out the functions, i.e., the
MAFF or WASCO - This has the advantage of using infrastructure and
personnel already in place. However it suffers from the major
disadvantage of the function not being the primary focus of the agency. In
addition, that agency could be put in the uncomfortable position of having
to police itself thereby affording no checks and balances in the systern
(c)   attached to the Environment Unit of the MPDEII, the Ministry with
responsibility for the Environment - While this option would have the
advantage of agency focus and attention and unbiased management of its
responsibilities, it has the disadvantage of that Ministry having to acquire



32
the needed infrastructure and personnel. This latter problem could be
mitigated by drawing the infrastructure and personnel from those agencies
that currently partially carry out the functions. Therefore, expansion to the
public sector could be minimised.
Option (c) would appear to offer the most effective and efficient administrative
framework for the operation of the Unit. It is therefore recommended that a proposal
be made to GOSL for the establishment of a Water Resources Management Unit
within  MPDEH.   Further, consultants should be engaged to develop the
organisational structure and operational procedures of the Unit and to advise on its
start-up.
5.3.4 Water Quality Status
Water quality management is one element of water resources management, however, for
the purposes of this report, it is dealt with as a separate issue. A 2000 report prepared as
part of the Global Water Supply and Sanitation Assessment 2000, which is being
conducted jointly by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and UNICEF, indicates that
all public water systems in St. Lucia utilise disinfection by chlorine. St. Lucia strives to
adhere to the WHO Water Quality Guidelines. In 1998, 3.680%D of the total annual
microbiology test results violated WHO Guidelines. In that same year 99% of the
samples reported an NTU for turbidity of less than 5 and 83% of' samples tested had a
free chlorine residual above 0.3 mg/l.
The inadequate treatment and disposal of domestic and industrial wastewater constitute
the most significant contributor to pollution of coastal waters and generally to the liquid
waste problem on the island. There is a high concentration of septic tank and soakaway
systems in some densely populated areas and this coupled with unfavourable soil
conditions results in high levels of septic tank effluent reaching the coastal waters- In
addition, inadequate operation and maintenance of sewage treatment plants result in
partially treated effluents leaving these systems to be disposed of in the nearshore waters.



33
The situation at the Castries Harbour is cause for concern. Here, the sewage outfall line
is ruptured near to the coastline. All the sewage collected from the Castries Sewerage
system enters the sea at this point untreated. WASCO has to take immediate steps to
stop this health nuisance and pollutant of the marine environment.
5.3.5 Administration
Measures for the control of the quality of water supplied to consumers in St. Lucia are to
be found under the provisions of two Acts; the Public Health Ordinance, 1975 and the
Water and Sewerage Act, 1999 with the latter taking precedence over the former in areas
of conflict or inconsistency. The Water and Sewerage Act, 1999 ma:kes both the Ministry
of Health and NWASC responsible for the control of water quality with the Ministry
having the responsibility for the setting of regulations and standards as provided for
under the Public Health Act, 1975.
With regards to the regulation of discharge from wastewater disposal systems, the Water
and Sewerage Act, 1999 contains no specific provisions for the setting of regulations and
standards. Therefore, responsibility falls only to the Ministry of Health as provided for
under the Public Health Act, 1975 and the 1978 Public Health Regulations for Sewage
and Disposal of Sewage and Liquid Industrial Wastes.
In practice, the Ministry of Health is currently the agency that carries out all the functions
for the control of the quality of water supply and wastewater dsposal. However, as
stated previously, that Ministry:
(a)   has not published standards for potable water quality or effluent discharge
standards; and
(b)   does not possess the laboratory equipment to carry c,ut that function.



34
With respect to item (a) above, GOSL, has on the advice of the CEHI '9 adopted the
World Health Organisation (WHO's) Drinking Water Quality Guidelines as its reference
for controlling the quality of potable water. CEHI is still in the process of developing
effluent discharge standards for the Caribbean (which will be adopted by St. Lucia). No
timetable has been set for the development of such standards but it is one of the items on
the agenda of that institution earmarked for early action.
At present, the Ministry of Health must depend on CEHI's laboratory to perform its
testing. In this regard, GOSL is proposing, to include in its 2001-2002 budget, plans for
the construction of a Central Laboratory Complex to include a water quality testing
laboratory and laboratories for the Standards Bureau and Forensic Unit of the Police
Services. At the time of writing this report, GOSL was still seeking finding for the
project. This project could be implemented within three years and should be regarded as
a prority for NWASC (see item a below).
For an efficient functioning of the water sector, especially one which could have more
that one operator, it is necessary that:
(a)   One agency is made responsible for water supply and wastewater
disposal quality regulations, standards and the control of such
standards and regulations. It is recommended ithat NWASC be that
agency. Amendments to the Water and Sewerage and Public Health
Acts will have to be made in respect of the powers of the Minister of
Health for day-to-day monitoring vis a vis emergencies, in order that
NWASC assume this responsibility.
(b)   NWASC must take immediate steps to declare the WHO Guidelines
as the standard for potable water quality in St. Lucia and take the
9 CEH1 is a regional organisation which provides Member Countries of CARICOM with technical and
advisory services in all areas of environmental management, focusing specifically on environmental health
matters



35
necessary steps to have CEHI complete its work in the development of
effluent quality standards.
(c)   Funding must be sought for:
(i)   completion of the laboratory complex;
(ii)   NWASC to hire and train the staff requilred to operate the
water quality testing laboratory;
(iii) purchase the necessary equipment for the new Water Quality
Testing and Control Unit; and
(iv)  WASCO to construct central sewerage systems in a number of
areas with high population densities with the priority being the
rehabilitation of the central Castries Sewerage System and its
expansion into the Greater Castries Area.






CHAPTER SIX
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT



36
6.  ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
6.1    National Issues
The environment in St. Lucia is under siege from development activities which have
resulted in:
(a)   the relentless clearing of forests to accommodate agricultural production.
As previously stated, up to 1992, the MAFF hLad put the rate of
deforestation at 1.9 percent per annum. With the decline in banana
production, the rate of deforestation has declined and marginal lands,
previously under banana cultivation, are reverting to forest. However, this
re-forestation will be a long process;
(b)   the widespread denuding of hillsides for residential houses;
(c)   the dramatic reduction of beach areas due to sand mining to feed the
burgeoning construction industry. A conservative estimate of illegal sand
mining is placed at 23, 313 m3 per year 10; and
(d)   the pollution of inland and coastal waters as a result of poor land use
practices and ineffective liquid and solid waste management. While
studies carried out by CEHI have indicated negligible pollution of inland
waters by organics and pesticides, several studies have indicated that
coastal areas including the Castries Harbour are receiving heavy loads of
organic waste from inadequately treated wastewater.
'0 Source NEAP



37
6.2   Sector Issues
A number of these environmental impacts have themselves impacted negatively on
WASCO's operations.
(a)   Because of deforestation, at times of heavy rainfall, high tubidity of raw
waters at river intakes cause WASCO to incur high treatment costs. In
times of dry weather, flows at the intakes are much reduced resulting in
WASCO being unable to meet its customer demand. In addition, over the
years, WASCO's predecessor the Water and Sewerage Authority, had
cause to move its intakes further and further up-steam to obtain better raw
water quality, but at the same time, reducing the catchment areas and the
resulting flows at the intakes. In the case of the Roseau water systen,
after several relocation of intakes, WASA had to incur the high capital
cost of constructing a damr
(b)   WASCO has to incur high power consumption costs of pumping water to
customers at high elevations.
High treatment and power costs are factors which contribute to WASCO being a high
cost producer of water when compared to other countries in the region.
6.3   Environmental Impact Assessment of Projects in the Sector
In order to avoid water and sewerage sector projects from adding to St. Lucia's
environmental pollution problems, all significant projects in the sector should have ELAs,
mitigation measures identified and the environmental performance monitored. If the
recommendations of this report are accepted, the PPDB will make it mandatory for
all significant projects in the sector to have EtAs.



38
The procedures for carrying out ElAs are well documented" and will not be repeated in
this report. However, typical impacts and mitigation measures for water supply and
sewerage projects are to be identified and a framework for introcducing environmental
monitoring into the system of environmental management developed.
6.4    Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures
Several types of environmental impacts are likely to occur during the construction and
operation phases. These environmental impacts are classified as termporary or permanent.
6.4.1  Temporary Impacts
Temporary environmental impacts can be anticipated during the construction phase of
projects. These impacts could be for the most part mitigated through environmentally
sensitive designs, public consultations, and good construction practices supported by
pertinent provisions in construction specifications. The types of environmental impacts
(in italics) and mitigation measures (in normal font) are as follows:
(a)   Disruption of recreational, commercial and industrial activities includitng
the destruction of crops in the path of pipelinies -
(i)    Minimise impacts by Coordinating construction schedules with
relevant stakeholders including local cormnunity leaders through
public consultation meetings; and
(ii)   Include a provision in the Bidding Document for the contractor to
provide temporary access to relevant facilities.
(b)   Disruption to traffic (vehicu lar and pedestrian) from street works -
" Environmental Assessment Source Book - World Bank and Manual of Environmental Appraisal - DFID



39
(i)    Hold public consultation meetings to develop detour routes with
the assistance of the police and local community groups;
(ii)   Limit construction in the north of the island during the peak tourist
season which is from November to March and one week in early
May the time of St. Lucia's world famous Jazz Festival;
(iii)   Restrict times when heavy goods vehicles employed in the
construction make deliveries and identify specific routes to be used
by such vehicles;
(iv)  lnclude a provision in the Bidding Documeni. for the contractor to
undertake measures to protect walkways and safeguard trenches;
and
(v)   Include a provision in the Bidding Document for the contractor to
ensure that all surface damage to roads is repaired expeditiously
and that the roads are maintained throughout the duration of the
contract.
(c)   Noise pollution and vibration -
(i)    Ensure that all mechanical equipment is well maintained; and
(ii)   Include a provision in the Bidding Document for the contractor to
avoid construction at night and weekends especially in residential
and tourist areas.
(d)    Dust and silt on properties adjacent to the construction -



40
(i)   Include a provision in the Bidding Document for the contractor, in
dry conditions, to damp down construction areas; and
(ii)   Provide the means for and enforce the use of wheel cleaners for
construction vehicles.
(e)   Atmospheric pollution from cotnstruction machinery -
(i)    Provide proper maintenance of construction vehicles; and
(ii)   Minimise the movement of construction vehicles.
(f)    Loss of vegetative cover where pipelines are routed outside road
carriageways -
(i)   Include a provision in the Bidding Document for the contractor to
rapidly reinstate cleared land;
(ii)    Maintain vegetative cover on reinstated land.
(g)   Accidental destnrction of archaeological sites durinig conistnrctioni
(i)   the  design  engineering  team  should  refer to  the  SLNT's
publication 'A System of Protected Areas for St. Lucia' for the
general location of archaeological sites and where work sites are
located in the vicinity of known archaeological sites, the option of
relocating the facility should be examined.  In any event, the
advice of SLNT should be sought and that organisation provided
with the exact location, depth and spatial distribution of planned
excavation; and



41
(ii)    Cease work immediately if archaeological remains are found to
allow research to take place.
(h)    Disposal of spoil an7d other waste from the construction site -
(i)    Ensure  proper  maintenance  and  operation  of construction
equipment to reduce the incidents of oil spills and leaks.  In
addition, spills and leaks should be expeditiously cleaned and
clean-up materials disposed in a landfill;
(ii)   Include a provision in the Bidding Document for the contractor to
dispose of excess fill material in areas specified by the engineering
specifications, and
(iii)   Include a provision in the Bidding Document for the contractor to
collect other material in a skip/truck and disposed of in a landfill.
(i)    Disturbance of wildlife especially the endemic species, the St. Lucia parrot
(Jacquot, Senmper 's warbler, St. Lucia wren, whii'e breasted thresher atid
marinie turtles- hawksbill, green, leatherback an7d loggerhead -
(i)    Careful field reconnaissance must take place to identify whether
endemic species are likely to be disturbed: and
(ii)    Where such disturbance is possible. locating the facility at a new
site should be the first option considered.
(j)    Exposure to natural hazards -



42
Natural hazards that affect St. Lucia include hurricanes,, storms, earthquakes and
land and rock slides. Therefore:
(i)    The design team should consult available hazard maps;
(ii)   Public consultation meetings should be held to indicate areas of
previous landslides, flooding and other potential disaster areas; and
(iii)   A provision in the Bidding Document should be included for the
contractor to prevent debris from the site blocking drains and other
water courses.
6.4.2 Permanent Imnpacts
Mitigation measures for identified permanent impacts may require changes in
Government policy andlor action on the part of the project team as follows:
(a)    Relocation  of residential, recreational, comrn;ercial and  industrial
activities that are in the way of pipelinies or on the site of proposed
structures
The relocation of residential, recreational, commercial or industrial
activities to make way for new development is always a highly sensitive
cultural, social and political issue. Historical evidence would suggest that
St. Lucia has been successful in accomplishing relocation exercises
without undue public upheaval. For instance, for the Roseau Basin Water
Project financed by the WB, CIDA and CDB over 40 families and farmers
had to be relocated to accommodate the construction of the dam and
impounding reservoir.  In this instance, GOSL  arranged  for the
construction of replacement' homes served with public amenities, such as
water, roads, electricity and adequate drainage, elsewhere in St. Lucia. In



43
addition, farmers who occupied marginal hillside farming plots were given
replacement plots of land in one of the most fertile and accessible farming
areas of St. Lucia.
As identified in the Water and Sewerage Act, the Cabinet of St. Lucia
may, under the provisions of the Land Acquisition Ordinance, acquire
lands for the purpose of siting water and sewerage structures. In the
instance sited above, GOSL did not invoke the powers of the Land
Acquisition Ordinance but rather undertook a process of public
consultations and negotiations.  Notwithstanding this, planned EIA
Regulations must include provisions and clear procedures for the
relocation of affected persons where such action is deemed necessary.
(b)   Reduction ini stream flow to users downtstream of a river iritake
St. Lucians have a long history of using rivers and streams mainly for
recreation and to a lesser extent irrigation of crops. River intakes must be
designed taking these traditions into consi(deration. The disease
schistosomiasis is endemic in St. Lucia. hIpour,ded water provides the
medium for multiplication of the snail host of the flatworm parasite which
causes the disease. The Ministry of Health should be contacted for advice
whenever the construction of a river intake is being considered
(c)   Scarinig of the landscape to accommodate structures and due to minin2g of
constructiotI aggregates
(i)    Provide rapid reinstatement of exposed land;
(ii)   Maintain vegetative cover on reinstated land; and
(iii) Ensure that the structure blends in with the natural landscape.



44
(d)   Noise pollution and vibratiotn for residents located' close to systems usinig
mechanzical equipmenti
Where mechanical equipment must be sited close to residents, designs
must ensure that such equipment has the optimum size for the duty it must
perform.   In addition, operators must ensure that the mechanical
equipment is well maintained.
(e)    The risk faced by residential, commercial and inidustrial structures and
economzic infrastructure located at elevations below reservoirs and
pipelines
Depending on their location, water structures could be susceptible to
natural hazards such that residential, commercial and industrial structures
and economic infrastructure at elevations lower than the structures are at
risk. It is therefore necessary that
(i)    WASCO should enter into discussions with ODP to prepare
adequate hazard maps for St. Lucia In the absence of such
hazard maps, design engineers should undertake risk
analyses, supported by local knowledge, when the location
of a water structure is being planned; and
(ii)   building standards (e.g. Caribbean Uniform Building Code)
be developed and/or adopted for the design of buildings.
For other types of structures, internationally accepted
design and construction practices should be observed.



45
6.5   Environmental Monitoring
All environmental management institutions in St. Lucia have been involved in the
preparation of or are aware of the procedures for carrying out E`lAs. The practice of
environmental performance monitoring is, however, new.  Environmental performance
monitoring should be designed to ensure that mitigation measures are implemented, have
the intended result, and that remedial measures are undertaken if mintigation measures are
inadequate or the impacts have been underestimated. It should also assess compliance
with national standards.
The monitoring programme should clearly indicate the linkages between identified
impacts; indicators to be measured; methods to be used; sampling locations; frequency of
measurements; where appropriate, detection limits; and thresho lds that will signal the
need for corrective actions.
Given the limited knowledge of the practice of environmental monitoring in St.
Lucia's institutions with responsibility for environmental management, it is
recommended that funding be sought for seminars/workshops on the issue. Arising
from these seminars/workshops would be recommendations for strengthening the
institutional capacity in this regard, of project executing agencies and those charged
with the responsibility for overseeing environmental management practices.
The agenda for the seminars/workshops should comprise:
(a)   The Practice of Environmental Analysis
(i)    Procedure for conducting an ELA;
(ii)   Public Consultation Practice; and



46
(iii)  Incorporating Mitigation Measures in the Project Design.
(b)    Information Management
(i)    Principles of data collection;
(ii)    Data storage and retrieval mechanisms;
(iii)   Fundamentals of Statistical Analysis; and
(iv)   Environmental Benchmarking.
(c)    Reporting






CHAPTER SEVEN
ENVIRONMENTAL SECTORAL. PLAN



47
7.  ENVIRONMENTAL SECTORAL PLAN
7.1    General
This Chapter sets out the administrative and legislative framework within which a private
sector operator in the water and sewerage sector in St. Lucia will operate. Because of the
nature of a environmental sector plan, some of the issues raised in previous sections of
this report will be repeated.
PSP in the water and sewerage sector will be achieved either through the granting of
operator licences by NWASC or sub-licences by WASCO. In the case of the former
method of licensing, the operator could be licensed to carry out some or all of WASCO's
current functions as prescribed in The Water and Sewerage Act. In the case of the sub-
licences granted by WASCO, the functions of the sub-licensee will only be in respect of
providing water and sewerage services and services incidental to water supply and the
disposal of sewage.
To avoid contractual conflicts, particularly in the start-up of ]'SP, the environmental
legislative and administrative framework within which an operator must act in carrying
out its functions either as a licensee of WASC or a sub-licensee of WASCO should be
clearly defined. Elements of this framework must include criteria and procedures for:
(a)   Water resources management;
(b)   Water quality management;
(c)   Project planning and development; and
(c)   Environmental impact assessment of projects.



48
7.2   Water Resources Management
As previously stated, WASCO currently carries out few oi its water resources
management functions as prescribed under the Water and Sewerage Act. This report has
recommended that GOSL adopt an Integrated Water Resources Management approach.
The MAFF, the other agency of GOSL, which shares with WASCO and WASC
responsibility for water resources management, has taken the lead in the establishment of
a Water Resources Management Unit. This report has recommernded that such a Water
Resources Management Unit be attached to SDEU. The water resources management
functions currently granted to WASC and/or WASCO must therefore be repealed and
must not be passed on for PSP.
In abstracting raw water for purification and distribution to consumers, an operator will
have to function within a framework established by a licence from the proposed Water
Resources Management Unit. Such a licence should prescribe:
(a)   the location of the point of abstraction;
(b)   measures to be pursued to protect the catchment area of the source (the
gathering ground);
(c)   the quantities of water to be abstracted (this being dependent on, ititer alia,
the available water resources and the claims of other users),
(d)   the quality, quantity and point of entry of water to be returned to the
environment; and
(e)   reporting requirements.



49
7.3   Water Quality Management
Generally a water operator will be expected to supply St. Lucia consumers with water of
good and wholesome quality and dispose of sewage in a manneir that will not cause a
public health nuisance or be harmful to the ecology of the receiving waters. Currently,
under the Water and Sewerage Act, 1 999, the Ministry of Health and the NWASC share
responsible for setting standards and controlling the quality of water distributed to
WASCO's customers.
With regard to the regulation of discharge from sewage disposal systems, the Water and
Sewerage Act, 1999 contains no specific provisions for the setting of regulations and
standards. Therefore, responsibility falls only to the Ministry of liealth as provided for
under the Public Health Act, 1975 and the 1978 Public Health Regulations for Sewage
and Disposal of Sewage and Liquid Industrial Wastes.
In practice, the Ministry of Health is currently the agency that canies out all the functions
for the control of the quality of water supply and wastewater disposal. Even so, the
Ministry of Health is stymied in its efforts because it:
(a)   has not published standards for potable water quality or effluent discharge
standards; and
(b)   does not possess the laboratory equipment to carry out its function.
The assistance the Ministry of Health receives from CEHI in respect of water quality
testing cannot remain as a permanent arrangement. This has been recognised by GOSL
and plans are being put in place for the construction of a Central Laboratory Complex to
include a water quality testing laboratory.
This report has recommended that the NWASC  be made the agency with sole
responsibi4y for water supply and wastewater disposal quality regulations, standards and



50
the control of such standards and regulations. Appropriate amendrnents to the Water and
Sewerage and Public Health Acts will have to be made in order that the Comimission
assume this responsibility. In addition staff will have to be recruited and trained to
operate the laboratory.
In accordance with current practice, an operator will be required tc, produce and distribute
water that meets WV-HO's Drinking Water Quality Guidelines. This will remain so until
NWASC formally declares WHO's Guidelines as St. Lucia's standard. Currently, there
are no effluent discharge standards for St. Lucia.  However, this report has made
recommendations that NWASC take immediate steps in urging CEHI complete its
formulation of such standards for the Caribbean which will then be adopted by St. Lucia.
7.4   Project Planning and Development
7.4.1 Physical Planning
GOSL has drafted PPDB. It could be reasonably expected that any new operator in the
water and sewerage sector will have to undertake its projects under the provisions of this
Bill. PPDB requires that no development of any land should take place without the
permission of the Head of the Physical Planning Division. The thorny issue of whether
Government Departments and Statutory Authorities are excluded has not been
specifically addressed by the Bill. However, the Water and Sewerage Act, makes it
mandatory for an operator to seek planning permission from the relevant agency of
GOSL for any physical development projects which exclude such activities as the
repair and maintenance of water and sewerage facilities.
7.4.2 Environmental Impact Assessment
Passage of PPDB will see, for the first time, the undertaking of l_As on the statute books
of St. Lucia. As previously stated, a list of types of developments for which an EIA will
be mandatory has been published as a schedule to the PPDB. This list does not include



51
the construction of wastewater treatment plants and water an(I sewerage pipelines.
This omission has been drawn to the attention of MPDE,H officials and an
appropriate amendment to PPDB is to be made.
PPDB also makes provision for the Head of the Physical Plannilg and Development
Division to make regulations for the undertaking of ElAs. This report has made the
recommendation that MiPDEH should immediately seek funding to draw-up such
regulations so that there is no time-lag between the passage of the Bill and bringing into
force, regulations governing the conduct of ELAs.
With particular reference to water and sewerage projects, WASC should develop
guidelines for the undertaking of ElAs. These guidelines should contain procedures for:
(a)   Classfying projects - CDB and WB have published general guidelines for
the classification of projects after an initial screening process.  The
guidelines published could be used as the basis for a classification of
projects in the water and sewerage sector.
(b)   EIAs - If initial screening indicates that an activity could be classified as
having significant impacts on the environment, then fiurther investigation
through a detailed EIA must be undertaken. Typical environmental
impacts and mitigation measures applicable to water and sewerage
projects have been outlined in Chapter 6 of this report.
(c)   Envirotnmental audits - ELAs are applied to proposed new projects at the
planning stage. Where a project involves the improvement of an existing
facility, e.g. upgrading a water treatment plant, an environmental audit
would be undertaken rather than an EIA. Initial Screening must be
undertaken in all cases.



52
(d)   Relocationi - Clear procedures must be prescribed for the relocation of
affected persons where such action is deemed necessary.
(e)   Community Participatioti - A  framework for public consultations
involving community based organisations in the EIA process must be
established.
(f)    Disaster Matagement - Guidelines for disaster management must include
measures for disaster preparedness, mitigation and response. Disaster
preparedness and response measures must be in line with procedures
established by OD? and NEMO respectively. Owing to the paucity of
hazard maps and building regulations, international construction practices
must be strictly adhered to.
(f)   Environmental Management Plan - An environmental management plan
must be prepared, indicating how environmental impacts will be
mitigated, managed and monitored during implementation.






APPEN DICES



Page 1
Endemic Fauna and Flora For St. Lucia    Appendbx 2 1
1 ~MC PLJ4B OE 3T . Luc IC
SCIENTIFIC            FiAILY        COMM"         DI TNIrIWN/lo
"Pic                              NAPE             BTA1'T
Tillandsia
fasciCulata     Bromeliaceae          _         IS
Aiphanes
luciana         Aracwa.          GNi-G"         Rare/IS
Juniperus
barbodensis     Cypressecuaw    Pencil cedar  Rare/endangered
Si panuna
saneta.-luciae  Manieiaceae      Dwa  okoa      Rare/endangered
Chrysocthlays
caribaea        Clusiacese       Boa Mang       RarefIS
Licania
oligantha       Rosac-sa             _          Is
Calliandra
slanema         hisosoicleac    Minizeye        Rare/endlangered
Polygala
saxctae-luciae  PolVgalaceae         _          IS
Acalypha
elizabethae     Euphor-biaceme        _         IS
Beenardia
laurentii       Euphorbimceae   Joao            Rare/enJangered
Daphnopsis
*arcrocarpa     Thymelaeaceae   Maho pinau    Rare/IS
Passiflora
luciensis      Passifloraceaw        _          IS
Cyphea crudyana  Lythraceae       Swan bwan      IS
Eugenia dussii   myrtaceac              _        Rare/IS
M4iconta luciana Mclastomataceae  Swa senn       Rare/ IEi
Niconia s ecunda Hlastowataceae        _        Rare/I1l
Cont ' d
Source: A System of Protecied Areas for St Lucia - St Lucia National Trust



Page 2
Appendix 2.1
SCEVrIFIC            F USILY                     DIOTRIDMUT lOMlI
J.   P__e(111
B.lu*lra itatm   6.u,viac.            _         RavmIIS
Label ta
*ata-1uct1a     L-b I,uwe.            _        Rre/IS
IS - 1nsuffuietntIy studied
Etourc       Proctor ( t991l



Page 3
Appendlx 2 1
I.[Q EMWIC E0. _ HTI LCIAK
SCIENTIFIC            F9UxILY       Comm"         DiSTRxmIBTINJ
NAME                              N1vc             STATUS
Birdr-
Amazona                           Jacquot
VerSiCD1or      Paittacida-      (St. Lucian   Rare/endangered
Par-rot)
Treg odyt es
aedon                            RossigIol
mesoloucus                        (St. Lucia
tsub-spec i.s)   TroglIodyt ides    wren)       Rare/enclangered
Leucupeza                         Pied Slanc    Entresely rare/
semperi         Pauulidae        (Beper' s    probably e'tinct
warbler)
Icterus           Icteridae       Cerouge        Uncom-on/NIT
laudebilis                      tSt.Lucia       (under review)
oriole)
mI;anospiza       Fringillidac    Moisson Pied  Rare/NIT
rich.rdsoni                      Blanc
(St. Lucia
Black Finch)
Capri.ulgus                      Jacque pas-    Rare/endangered
otiosus         Capri-ulgidea  papa-au
(St. Lucia
Night-jar)
Rauphounclus
brachyorus *    Nisidaw          Gorge blanc   Rare/endangered
(White
breasted
thrasher)
Megalonym                         Pilori         Probably
lucia.                          (St. Lucia      extinct
muskrat)
Cnemidophorus    Teiida-           Zandoli       Rarefendangered
vanzai                           Terre (Maria
Is"s Wround
lizard)
Gymnopthalnus    Teiidaw          Zondoli Terre  Rate/IrS
pleci nesydrian                   (Mari Is )
(sub speci as)
C Regional Endemic
Cont' d



Page 4
Appendix 2 1
SCIENTIFIC            FAMILY         COMON         DISTRIBUTION/
NAMENME                                             STATUS
ReDt i 1 es
Anolis luciae    lgQanidae         Zandoli        Commaon
(St. Lucia
tree lizard)
Sphaerodactylus   Gekkoniday       Mabouya        Cooson
*icrolepis                        (St. Lucia
*icrolepis                        Pygmy  ecko )
(sub species)
Liophis ornatus  Colubridae        Couresse       Very rare
(grass snake)
Bothrops          Viperidae        Fer-de-Lance  Common in
caribbaeus                                       certain parts
Constrictor -    Boidae            Tete Chien    Common in
constrictor                                      certain parts
orphxas                                        (area specific)
(sub species)
NIT = No Immediate Threat
IS  = Insufficiently Studied
Source: 1. Long (1975)
2. Wildlife Protection Act No. 9 1980
3. Corke (31987)
4. ICBP (1968)
5. Butler (1991)
6. CCA (1991)
7. Devaux (1978)



GOSL AGENCIES WITH RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT                       Appendix 4.1
Agency             Departments                   Responsibilities
Ministry of        *Development Control          *Review Development applications, regulate
Planning,           Authonrty                     building construction and prepare and
Development,                                     implement land use and physical development
Environment and                                   plans
Housing            *National Development        *Formulate comprehensive National
Corporation                   Development Plans and FPolicy
*Housing and Urban           *Implement GOSL's policy with respect to
Development Corporation      housing and urban devel'opment
*National Population Unit    *Formulate GOSL's policy with respect to
population matters
*Environment, Science and    *Coordinate the implemenLttion of programmes
Technology Section           and projects in environmental management and
sustainable development
*Solid Waste Management      *Provide coordinated and integrated systems for
Authority                    solid waste management
Prime Minister's    *Disaster Preparedness Office   *Formulate and implement GOSL's policy with
Office and Cabinet                              respect to disaster management
Ministry of Health,  *Environmental Health Branch   *Regulate effluent discharge from public sewers
Family Affairs,                                  *Monitor Water Quality including WASCO's
Human Services                                   supplies, rnvers and coastal waters
and Women                                        *Establishes Public Health standards
*Bureau of Education         *Promote public education and awareness on
matters pertaining to public health and the
environment
Ministr-y of Com.  ;*City and Village Councils   *Sanitation and Solid Waste Management at the
Dev., Culture,                                    local community level
Local Gov. and Co-
Operatives                                                                                  I
Ministry of Legal    *Labour Department          *Occupational Health anc Safety
Affairs, Home
Affairs and Labour                                                                          l
Ministry of        *National Water and Sewerage   *Coordinates the development and use of St.
Communications,    Commission                     Lucia's water resources
Works Transpor                                   *Issue licences for public water supply and
and Public Utilities                               sewerage
*Regulates the operations of licensees including
tariffs 
*Water and Se'werage          *Provide St. Lucia with a safe and reliable supply
Company                      of water and the operation of safe and reliable
sewerage systems
._______________ .*Air and Sea Ports Authority    *Control of Pollution from ships
Ministry of        *Department of Forestry       *Manage the forest resources of St. Lucia
Agriculture, Lands,  *Soil Conservation and      *Manage St. Lucia's water resources
Forestry and        Drainage Unit
Fisheries          *Pesticides Control Board     *Control the importation of agricultural chemicals i
*Land Conservation Board     *Coordinate land and drainage conservation
St. Lucia National   *Statutory Body             *Preserve buildings and objects of historic and
Trust                                              architectural value
*Promote, conserve and manage land and manne
areas of natural or histonc interest
*Formulate by-laws regulating activity in
protected areas                           i



Appendix 4.2
Page 1
A' Lucia ITIAh 4Vl  ironmetW Lam (as at February 25, 26*
LEGISLATION                              JURISDICTION
(1) Agriautual Small Tenances Act 198          enforcement of reguations requiring
(No. 22 of 1983)                            sound sofl and water conseration
practices on small land holdings
(1) Q) St Lucia Air and Seaports Authority    *  development and m2ngement of the
Act 1983 (No. 10 of 1983)                 nation's air and seaports
(ii) St. Luia Air and Seaports Authority
Regulations 1985 (No. 92 of 1985)
(3) (i) Ais seases and Importation)             contols the importation of animals
Ordinance Cap. 41                         and reglates the treatm   and
disposal of animals which are suflaing
(ii) Animals (Diseases and Importation)      or are suspected to be suffering firm
Ordinance (         ) Act No. 15         any disease
of 1994
(4) Beach Protction Act 1967 (No. 2of           protection of beaches through permit
1967) (Amenment) No. 9 of 1984    .         system for beac sand  ini
(5) Control of Advertisements Ordinace          reglates the display of advas
1960 (No. 25 of 1960)                       in public plas
(6) Crown Lands Ordinance Cap. 108              consolidate the law relating to the
sney and dispma,of crown lands
and of vacat lands
(7) Employers (Occupational Health and          ses new and improned aandards of
Safety) Act 1985 (No. 10 of 1985)           occupatonal health and safety m
places of employment incuding the
effective disposal of wastes and
effluents
(8) Environmental Protection Levy Act 1999      provides for the imposition and
(No. 10 of 1999)                            coilection of an er     h
protection levy on ;ods impd
into St. Lucia-



Appendix 4.2
Page 2
LEGISLATION                              JURISDICrION
(9) (i) Fisheries Act 1984 (No. 10 of 1984)    *  management of fisheries and marine
reserves
(ii) Fisheries Regulations SI (No. 9 of
1994)
(10) (i) Forest, Soil and Water Conservation    *  management of forests
Ordinance Cap. 25 of (1946)        *     establishment of forest reserves and
protected forests
(ii) Forest, Soil and Water Conservation   *  soil and water conservation
Ordinance (Amendment) Act 1983           programmes to protect forested areas
(No. 11 of 1983)
(11) Housing and Urban Development       *      planning and development of housing
Corporation Act (1971) (No. 14 of          projects
1971)
(12) Land Conservation and Improvement Act *    provision for better land drainage
1992 (No. 10 of 1992)                       conservation
(13) Land Development (Interim Control) Act  *  Land use planning and development
1971 (No. 8 of 1971) Amendment Acts         control
No. 8 of 1984; No.11 of 1990; and No.
18 of 1998)                          _
(14) Litter Act 1983 (No. 24 of 1983)    *      control of litter in public and private
(Amendment) Act (No. 18 of 1985) and        places
(No. 14 of 1993)
(15) Maritime Areas Act 1984 (No. 6 of          to make provision for the territorial
1984)                                       sea, continental shelf, establish
contiguous zone, economic zone and
other related purposes. Implements
various provisions of the Untied
Nations Convention on the Law of the
Sea
(16) Merchant Shipping (Oil Pollution) Act    *  an act to introduce in St. Lucia the
1996 No. 11 of 1996                         Law of England with regard to
Merchant Shipping and matters
connected therewith including marine
pollution.
(17) National Conservation Authority Act  *     provides for the establishment of a
(1999) (No. 16 of 1999)                     National Conservation Authority to
provide for the care and management
of public parks and beaches.



Appendix 4.2
Page 3
I (18) National Development Corporation Act      promotion of economic;
1971 (No. 9 of 1971)                       growthrmdustial development
19) Oil in Navigable Waters Act Cap. 91  *     provision against the dLscharge or
escape of oil into the territorial waters
of the State.
(20) (i) Pesticides Control Act 1975 (No. 7    -  establishes the Pdsticide Control
of 1975) (Amendment) No. 27 of          Board
1988
(ii) Pesticide Control (Labelling of  a    control of import, use, labelling and
Pesticides) Regulations SI No. 70 of    storage of pesticides
1987
(iii) Pesticide Control (Registraion and   e  provides for registration of and
Licencing) Regulations SI No. 71      licences for the use and storage of
of 1987                                pesticides
(21) Public Health Act 1975 (No. 8 f 1975)      regulatory oversight fir sewage
industrial and solid waste disposal
removal of nuisance and unsanitary
conditions on premises (rubbish, night
soil etc.)
(22) (i) Plant Protection Act 1988 (No. 21 of  *  control of pests and diseases injurious
1988) SI No. 66 of 1995                 to plants and to prevent the
introduction of exotic species of the
(ii) Regulations SI No. 71 of 1995         same
(23) Radioactive Minerals Act Cap. 188   *      authorises the explornion for or
miining of radioactive niinerals
(24) Rodney Bay Development Act 1970 (No.  *    authorisation of land improvement
8 of 1970)                                 works at Rodney Bay.
(25) Slum Clearance and Housing Ordinance   *   housing of persons - acquisition/
Cap. 174                                    management of slum areas -
redevelopment and irnprovement of
unhealthy areas; demolition of
unsanitary areas
(26) St. Lucia National Trust Act 1975 (No.   *  provides for the presrvation of
16 of 1975)                                buildings and objects of historic and
architectural value and areas of
natural or scenic importance.



Appendix 4.2
Page 4
LEGISLATION                              JURISDICrION
(27) St. Lucia Solid Waste Management Act      establishes the National Solid Waste
1996 (No. 20 of 1996) (Amendment No.       Management Authonity with overall
2 of 1997)                                 responsibility for solid waste disposal
(28) Timber Industry Development Board         development of timber industry
Ordinance 1963 (No. 24 of 1963)            promotion of timber production
(Amendment No. 12 of 1983)
(29) Tourist Industry Development Act 1981   *  promotion and development of tourist
(No. 4 of 1981) (Amendment No. 6 of        industry
1993 & No. 6 of 1996)
(30)(i) Town and Country Planning Ordinance    physical planning and building control
Cap. 175.
Cii) Regulations Vol. 7 p. 921 Laws of St.
Lucia (1957)
(31) Water and Sewage Authority Act 1999       management of water supply and
(No. 13 of 1999)                           resources
*     development and control of sewage
systems
*     protection of surface water supply
intakes
(32) Wildlife Protection Act 1980 (No. 9 of    *  provides for conserration of wildlife
1980)                                      and recommendations for designation
of wildlife reserves
*     enforcement of hunting regulations



