Report No. PID10050
Project Name                     ST. Lucia-Technical Assistance Water ...
Reform Project
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Urban Water Supply; WW-Water Supply &
Sanitation Adjustment
Project ID                       LCPE70244
Borrower(s)                      Government Of ST. Lucia
Implementing Agency
Ministry of Planning , Development,
Environment and Housing
Address: Government Office Complex,
P.O.Box 709, Castries
Contact Person: Allison King Joseph,
Permanent Secretary,
Tel: 758-458-4421
Fax: 758-451-6958
Email:directorofplanning@candw.lc
Water and Sewerage Corporation (WASCO)
Address: L'Anse Road, P.O. Box 1481,
Castries, St. Lucia, West Indies
Contact Person: John Joseph, Managing
Director and Martin Satney, General Manager
Tel: 758-452-6181
Email: wasco@candw.lc
Ministry of Finance
Address:
Contact Person: Mr. Bernard La Corbiniere,
Permanent Secretary
Tel: 758-452-1354
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                October 19, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date           October 6, 2001
Projected Board Date             December 6, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Despite years of efforts to improve the performance of the public water
company through conventional institutional strengthening programs and
twinning arrangements, the water company continues to perform poorly (low
O&M efficiency and inability to internally generate investment funds),
with unreliable supply of water, low coverage of sewerage, poor financial
performance, and low levels of capital investment. On the other hand, the



GoSL is facing stringent fiscal constraints. The Government has since
1998 initiated a series of reforms to put the water company on a path that
will ensure long-term reliability. Among the actions taken so far: the
transformation of the water utility from a state agency (WASA) to a
government-owned corporation (WASCO), formally announced during a ceremony
on December 6th, 1999;the replacement of WASCO's board of directors with
private sector representatives;the appointment of a new General Manager
and a Managing Director who are expected to bring a greater business-like
culture to the utility;a down-sizing effort, supported largely through
voluntary retirements, that has decreased the permanent payroll from about
320 staff to about 260 staff over the last several months;a 100t increase
in the average water tariff-the first increase in nearly a decade
(implemented since February 2000); andthe creation of a National Water and
Sewerage Commission (NWSC) to regulate the sector (as defined in the Act
passed in March 1999) as well as the actual appointment of seven
commissioners.However, many institutional and legal issues remain to be
solved, complemented and/or strengthened:The regulatory office (NWSC) is
in charge of sector-wide policy making: While the new Water and Sewerage
Act establishes the NWSC as a regulator, it also grants the NWSC an
unusual and undesirable authority to set sector-wide policies. Policy
functions needed for full sector and corporate development need to be
allocated among the NWSC, the Ministry of Public Utilities, and other
relevant government bodies, and this clarified in     the Water and Sewerage
Act and other legislation in St. Lucia.The regulatory office should be
independent of the Ministry of Public Utilities. Under the current Act the
Ministry of Public Utilities is responsible for the nomination of the 7
Commissioners on terms co-terminus with the Government. Moreover, the
Commissioners are selected to represent the various stakeholders and
relevant Ministries. Efforts should be made to make the Commission as
independent as possible from the Ministry and minimize the political
interference in its activities by extending and staggering the mandates of
the Commissioners.Lack of clarity about responsibilities in introducing
private sector: The Act can be interpreted as allocating decision-making
authority to the NWSC with regards to the introduction of private sector
participation in water supply and sewerage services, but this needs to be
clarified specifying NWSC's roles in initiating private sector
participation. It also needs to be clarified with respect to WASCO's
ability of involving PSP in the form of sub-concessioning, sub-licensing,
and other forms of PSP.Lack of clarity regarding responsibilities in
formulating and implementing tariff schemes: Specific rules and
allocation of responsibilities for tariff setting, implementation and
monitoring still need to be defined. A regulatory regime for tariff
setting that includes appropriate incentives for improving operating
efficiency of WASCO (tariff setting regimes tied to specific performance
targets) and for promoting consumption efficiency still needs to be
developed.Conflict of interest in NWSC's mandate of water resource
management: Under the current arrangement, the NWSC faces conflict of
interest between its mandate to regulate potable water supply and to
manage water resources for all water users.The roles and responsibilities
of the operator (WASCO) are not well defined in the Water and Sewerage
Act. Specifically it is not clear what are the responsibilities of WASCO
regarding the scope of service provision; water conservation; and tariff
setting.The project is to be based on the following key strategic
elements: (i) strengthening the legal and regulatory framework and
capacity of the Commission to regulate the private provision of water and
-2 -



sewerage services and to ensure the protection of the interests of St.
Lucia's consumers; (ii) provide assistance to invest in urgently needed
works in the transition period so that the supply system continue to
provide service at the current or marginally improved level and (iii)
orchestrate PSP with the specific objectives of:Improving operating and
financial efficiency in the provision of water and sewerage services, so
that WASCO can sustain growth of service provision, up to achieving full
coverage in their areas of service;Ensuring an adequate return on
financing channeled to the sector to finance investment projects for the
provision of water and sanitation services, so WASCO can effectively raise
funds in capital markets or its private operator can justify the financing
of capital expenditures;Reducing the fiscal burden on the government, so
that the government can allocate scarce funds to the production of other
public services that are unable to provide full cost recovery or targeted
subsidies in the water sector.
2. Objectives
The development objective of the project is to prepare and transit the
water company to private sector management within a sound legal and
regulatory framework. The project will be financed by the World Bank and
the Caribbean Development Bank on parallel financing basis. The specific
objective of the Bank-financed components of the project is to help the
transition of WASCO from a publicly-managed utility to a
privately-operated company under a well-functioning regulatory framework.
The objectives of the CDB-financed components are to ensure that the
operational reliability of the water supply and sewerage networks does not
deteriorate any further and that WASCO's staff skills are improved in the
transition period for better integration in the new operational
environment.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Government of St. Lucia values the Bank's involvement in this process
for the following reasons:The Bank's participation would bring to bear the
lessons learned from its international experience from many transactions
that were carried out in the water sector. The Bank's presence would lend
credibility and transparency to the process of introducing private sector
participation in the operations of WASCO which in turn would foster an
efficient delivery of services.
4. Description
Technical assistance for the strengthening of the regulatory and
environmental framework. This component will finance consulting services
to: 1) establish the regulatory framework; a) review the Water Act and
other key legislation and suggest ways of improving it; b) draft
regulations; c) recommend institutional set-up for the commission and its
secretariat; d) outline the new operating license; e) define training
needs and organize workshops, 2) strengthen the environmental framework
including guidelines for environmental licensing and impact assessment and
3) train NWSC staff. Estimated Costs: US$0.58 million.Technical
assistance for the strengthening of WASCO's internal systems. This
component will finance: a) a diagnostic of specific functional areas and
internal systems, e.g. management information systems, financial
management and accounting, customer service and operations, b)
implementation of selected proposals for improved internal procedures and
systems. The expected outputs are: improved customer service, increased
-3 -



revenues, identification of training programs, a public relations program
for consensus building within WASCO for private sector participation.
Costs: US$0.60 million.Technical assistance for carrying out the private
sector transaction (concession). This component will be implemented in two
parts: a) a feasibility study for the private sector participation (PSP)
transaction carried out after the regulatory work described above; and b)
implementation of the concession transaction. Under the first part, the
study will cover: (i) demand estimates, (ii) expansion and rehabilitation
investment needs assessment, (iii) financial modeling; (iv) PSP structure
(debt treatment, tariff levels and structure, ownership); (v) investor
survey. Under the second part of this component, investment bankers and
legal services will be hired to prepare legal documents (concession
contract) and supervise the transaction for the concession of WASCO assets
and its operations. Costs: US$0.88 million.Urgently needed investments and
asset rehabilitation. Under this component, four activities are proposed:
a) a meter purchase and installation program (including equipment for leak
detection), b) intake upgrade and new treatment plant at Woodlands/Grace
(Vieux Fort system) , c) replacement of the raw water supply pipeline for
Hill 20 water treatment plant, and d) replacement of the sewage pumps in
Castries. These priority items were identified by a pre-feasibility study
carried out by a consulting firm (Stantec) and discussed during the
preparation missions. Total estimated costs: US$3.66 million. The detailed
design of these four sub-components will be initiated by early 2002; the
costs of design and supervision will be borne by the Borrower.Project
management and public information and dissemination campaign. This
component will finance part of the project management unit and a public
information campaign, which will include public consultations and
workshops to disseminate and foster consensus on the PSP process,
including a website. This component will also finance the financial audits
of the project accounts and any individual consultants required for
project implementation. Costs: US$0.85 million
1. Strengthening of the sector regulatory and environmental framework
2. TA to strengthen WASCO human resources and internal systems
3. TA to carry out studies and support PSP transaction
4. Urgently needed investments and asset rehabilitation
5. Project management and public information and dissemination campaign
Unallocated
Physical contingencies
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government 1.20
IBRD 1.30
IDA 1.30
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK 4.56
Total Project Cost 8.36
6. Implementation
Implementation Period and Phasing. The Project is expected to be
implemented in about four years. The Project will initiate work on the
regulatory framework first. It is important that, in a first instance, the
regulatory framework be strengthened to give comfort to private sector
investors; likewise, the investments planned under the Project are those
urgently needed that would a) enhance the reliability of the system to
ensure adequate operation and b) generate basic data that is currently
- 4 -



lacking and that would be needed for fuller asset evaluation. It is
expected that the investment component would be completed in the first two
and half years of the project. The feasibility and transaction work will
follow the regulatory work once the latter has been approved by the
political instances. It is also expected that the project will provide
technical assistance to the regulators in the conduct of its activities
and its contacts with the private operator in the first year and half of
the concession.PMU. A Project Management Unit will be formed under a
Project Coordinator reporting to the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry
of Planning , Development, Environment and Housing. The PMU will also
include an engineer, an accountant and administrative assistant. The main
responsibilities of the PMU will be to initiate the implementation of the
various components, supervise their execution and prepare progress reports
to the Banks on the status of implementation. The project will finance the
Project coordinator's salary and the other professionals will be seconded
from WASCO.Project Coordination and oversight. A Project Steering
Committee, including representatives of the key ministries (Finance,
Planning, Public Utilities), WASCO and civil society will be formed to: a)
represent the Borrower, b) discuss broad implementation strategies, c)
provide a forum for discussing the PSP strategy, d) ensure coordination
with relevant ministries and e) resolve major bottlenecks. It is expected
that the PC would act as the secretary of the Steering Committee, setting
up its agenda and implementing its decisions. The frequency of these
meetings will initially be biweekly (for the first six months) and then
monthly for the remainder of the project life. The minutes of the meetings
will be made available to the Bank on a timely basis.Implementation and
Procurement. The PMU will be responsible of the procurement of the goods
and services. During project preparation, a procurement plan was prepared
and procurement capacity has been evaluated (Annex 6). Although WASCO had
implemented a Bank project which had parallel financing from 3 other
sources (CDB, OPEC and CIDA), the work was done by external consultants
and little experience with Bank guidelines might have remained within the
institution; therefore, it is planned to that the PMU staff be enrolled in
a Bank procurement training program prior to effectiveness.Accounting and
auditing. Project financial management will be carried out by the Project
Accountant, reporting to the Project Coordinator. The financial management
arrangements for the project, the results of the FM assessment carried out
by the Bank, and the Action Plan to be completed prior to loan
effectiveness, are detailed in Annex 6. The Project's and WASCO's
accounts will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
7. Sustainability
In St. Lucia and elsewhere, experience has shown that improved performance
of public utilities is not sustained due to a number of factor, key among
them: political interference in management, lack of competition for the
market, lack of economic incentives in terms of contractual agreements
and clear regulatory framework. This Project will help ensure WASCO's
performance sustainability through: a) a long-term private sector
involvement in the sector operations where the gains would be irreversible
for a long-time, b) the de-linking of WASCO's operations from political
interference and c) economic incentives for increased efficiency and
customer responsiveness.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The design of this project draws on lessons learned in the implementation
- 5-



of Bank investment projects in different countries, including the
Caribbean region, as well as technical assistance projects in support of
private sector participation in this sector. In summary, they
are:investments in managerial and operational improvement programs in
public water companies have not provided lasting benefits. Under the
proposed project, basic operational and managerial improvements will be
carried out to increase the attractiveness of the company to the private
operator and to avoid possible serious interruptions of service provision
due to the collapse of parts of the system.Strong political commitment
from top levels of Government and wide support at the base are important
for the success of a PSP transaction. The Project will finance a public
education campaign and a consultation process to inform and seek support
for the PSP proposal from various stakeholders;PSP without a clear
regulatory framework and competent regulators can frustrate efforts to
attract serious private investors. The Project will review the legal and
regulatory framework and develop best practice regulations and identify
the training needs to the Commission and the permanent secretariat that
would be installed.Limited local human resources can make it difficult to
adequately address implementation issues in a timely and cost effective
manner. The creation of a strong project implementation unit and the use
of experienced international experts, when necessary, will contribute to
the project success.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        A sectoral environmental assessment (SEA) was
completed during project preparation which identified a number of
legislative, institutional and environmental issues related to the water
sector that would be addressed in the project.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Alexander E. Bakalian
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-5319
Fax: 202-676-1821
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:(202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop druing the week ending October 12,2001
- 6 -



