Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22912 - SLU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN AND CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$1.3 MILLION AND SDR 1.1 MILLION
(US$1.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
SAINT LUCIA
FOR A
WATER SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
November 26, 2001
Finance, Private Sector, and Infrastructure Department
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



ClURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 25, 2001)
Currency Unit = East Caribbean Dollars (XCD)
1 XCD = US$2.67
US$1.00 = 0.37 XCD
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
13 DA                Board of Directors
C AS                 Country Assistance Strategy
C1DB                 Caribbean Development Bank
CFAA                 Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CIDA                 Canadian International Development Agency
CP'AR                Comprenhensive Country Procurement Assessment Report
f M                  Financial Management
G(SL                 Government of Saint Lucia
IACI                 The Loan Administration Change Initiative
QCBS                 Quality Cost Based Selection
NWSC                 National Water & Sewerage Commission
O:ECS                Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
GkM                  Operation & Maintenance
OPEC                 Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
E'IU                 Project Implementation Unit
PilvU                Project Management Unit
PMR                  Project Management Report
PSP                  Private Sector Privatization
RMB13T               Royal Merchant Bank of Trinidad & Tobago
SE,A                 Sectoral Environmental Assessment
SOE                  Statement of Expenditures
TA                   Technical Assistance
UFW                  Unaccounted for Water
iUAWI                Institute of Business in Trinidad
WASA                 Water & Sewerage Authority
WASCO                Water & Sewerage Company Inc.
WB                   World Bank
Vice President:    David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager/Director:    Danny Leipziger
,__    _   Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Alexander Bakalian'  ___



ST. LUCIA
WATER SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       3
2. Key performance indicators                                                           3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        7
3. Benefits and target population                                                       7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        7
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                            8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                 10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         11
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            12
2. Financial                                                                           12
3. Technical                                                                           13
4. Institutional                                                                       13
5. Environmental                                                                       14
6. Social                                                                              15
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  17
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      17



2. Critical risks                                                                      17
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     18
(J. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            18
2. Other                                                                               18
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          19
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          19
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          20
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    24
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         30
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           31
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    42
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       51
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     59
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    60
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  61
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            63
Annex 11: Social Assessment                                                              65
Annex 12: Policy Letter                                                                   71
MAP(S)



ST. LUCIA
Water Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSFW
Date: November 26, 2001                             Team Leader: Alexander E. Bakalian
Country Manager/Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos    Sector Manager/Director: Danny M. Leipziger
Project ID: P070244                                 Sector(s): WU - Urban Water Supply, WW - Water
Supply & Sanitation Adjustment
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)   Theme(s): Water
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[X] Loan     [X] Credit    [1 Grant      [1 Guarantee      [ J Other:
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$1.3 million/US$1.3 rnillion equivalent
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                            Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%                              Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                           Years to maturity: 35
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):     Source                             Local         Foreign          Total
BORROWER                                                          1.11           0.09           1.20
IBRD                                                             0.25            1.05           1.30
IDA                                                              0.25            1.05           1.30
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK                                        1.67           2.89           4.56
Total:                                                           3.28            5.08           8.36
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF ST. LUCIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF PLANNING, DEVELOPMENT, ENVIRONMENT AND HOUSING
Ministry of Planning, Development, Environment and Housing
Address: Government Office Complex, P.O.Box 709, Castries
Contact Person: Allison King Joseph, Permanent Secretary,
Tel: 758-458-4421            Fax: 758-451-6958              Email: directorofplanning®candw.lc
Other Agency(ies):
Water and Sewerage Corporation (WASCO)
Address: L'Anse Road, P.O. Box 1481, Castries, St. Lucia, West Indies
Contact Person: John Joseph, Managing Director and Martin Satney, General Manager
Tel: 758-452-6181            Fax:               Email: wasco@candw.lc
Ministry of Finance
Contact Person: Mr. Bernard La Corbiniere, Permanent Secretary
Tel: 758-452-1354            Fax:               Email:



Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUSSm):
FY         2002      2003        2004      2005      2006
Annual    0.10        0.70      1.10       0.50      0.20
Cumulative    0.10       0.80       1.90      2.40      2.60
Project implementation period: 2002- 2005
Expected effectiveness date: 02/01/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
OCS PAC F- R. M.dh 2000
-2-



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the project is to prepare and transit the water company to private sector
management within a sound legal and regulatory framework.
The project will be financed by the World Bank and the Caribbean Development Bank on parallel financing
basis. The specific objective of the Bank-financed components of the project is to help the transition of
WASCO from a publicly-managed utility to a privately-operated company under a well-functioning
regulatory framework. The objectives of the CDB-financed components are to ensure that the operational
reliability of the water supply and sewerage networks does not deteriorate any further and that WASCO's
staff skills are improved in the transition period for better integration in the new operational environment.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The achievement of the development objective will be monitored through the following performance
indicators:
3   the timely passage and promulgation of regulations;
*   the assessment from investment bank and financial consultants on WASCO;
-   the outcome of the concession transaction;
_   the timely decision making of the regulatory agency with respect to service regulation.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 22205-LAC Date of latest CAS discussion: 06/28/2001
The over-arching objective of the CAS is to support poverty reduction in the OECS region through human
and institutional development and reduced income insecurity. Within that framework, the sector-related
goal is the creation of an enabling environment including improved environmental and infrastructure
regulation/management for continued or increased private investment in utilities (water, telecom and
power).
While the proposed project is focused on St. Lucia, it is intended to serve as a pilot for the water sector
reform in the OECS region. It is also intended to provide a platform for the possible preparation of a
regional regulatory framework which could, over time, form the basis for folding many of the
country-specific regulatory functions into a multi-sector and possibly a multi-country regulatory entity.
Many of the OECS countries face similar issues with regard to the performance of their water utilities. The
proposed model for the water sector reform in St. Lucia could be adapted and replicated in the neighboring
OECS countries, some of which ha-e already expressed an interest.
- 3 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Despite years of efforts to improve the performance of the public water company through conventional
institutional strengthening programs and twinning arrangements, the water company continues to perform
poorly (low O&M efficiency and inability to internally generate investment funds), with unreliable supply
of water, low coverage of sewerage, poor financial performance, and low levels of capital investment. On
the other hand, the GoSL is facing stringent fiscal constraints. The Government has since 1998 initiated a
series of reforms to put the water company on a path that will ensure long-term reliability. Among the
actions taken so far:
*   the transformation of the water utility from a state agency (WASA) to a government-owned
corporation (WASCO), formally announced during a ceremony on December 6th, 1999;
* the replacement of WASCO's board of directors with private sector representatives;
*   the appointment of a new General Manager and a Managing Director who are expected to bring a
greater business-like culture to the utility;
* a down-sizing effort, supported largely through voluntary retirements, that has decreased the permanent
payroll from about 320 staff to about 260 staff over the last several months;
e   a 100% increase in the average water tariff-the first increase in nearly a decade (implemented since
February 2000); and
*   the creation of a National Water and Sewerage Commission (NWSC) to regulate the sector (as de:5ned
in the Act passed in March 1999) as well as the actual appointment of seven commissioners.
However, many institutional and legal issues remain to be solved, complemented and/or strengthened:
*   The regulatory office (NWSC) is in charge of sector-wide policy making: While the new Water and
Sewerage Act establishes the NWSC as a regulator, it also grants the NWSC an unusual and
undesirable authority to set sector-wide policies. Policy functions needed for full sector and corporate
development need to be allocated among the NWSC, the Ministry of Public Utilities, and other relevant
government bodies, and this clarified in the Water and Sewerage Act and other legislation in St.
Lucia.
* The regulatory office should be independent of the Ministry of Public Utilities. Under the current Act
the Ministry of Public Utilities is responsible for the nomination of the 7 Commissioners on terms
co-terminus with the Government. Moreover, the Commissioners are selected to represent the various
stakeholders and relevant Ministries. Efforts should be made to make the Commission as indepencent
as possible from the Ministry and minimize the political interference in its activities by extending and
staggering the mandates of the Commissioners.
*   Lack of clarity about responsibilities in introducing private sector: The Act can be interpreted as
allocating decision-making authority to the NWSC with regards to the introduction of private sector
participation in water supply and sewerage services, but this needs to be clarified specifying NWSC's
roles in initiating private sector participation. It also needs to be clarified with respect to WASCOC's
ability of involving PSP in the form of sub-concessioning, sub-licensing, and other forms of PSP.
* Lack of clarity regarding responsibilities in formulating and implementing tarif schemes: Specific
rules and allocation of responsibilities for tariff setting, implementation and monitoring still need to be
defined. A regulatory regime for tariff setting that includes appropriate incentives for improving
operating efficiency of WASCO (tariff setting regimes tied to specific performance targets) and for
- 4 -



promoting consumption efficiency still needs to be developed.
*   Conflict of interest in NWSC's mandate of water resource management: Under the current
arrangement, the NWSC faces conflict of interest between its mandate to regulate potable water supply
and to manage water resources for all water users.
*   The roles and responsibilities of the operator (WASCO) are not well defined in the Water and
Sewerage Act. Specifically it is not clear what are the responsibilities of WASCO regarding the scope
of service provision; water conservation; and tariff setting.
The project is to be based on the following key strategic elements: (i) strengthening the legal and regulatory
framework and capacity of the Commission to regulate the private provision of water and sewerage
services and to ensure the protection of the interests of St. Lucia's consumers; (ii) provide assistance to
invest in urgently needed works in the transition period so that the supply system continue to provide
service at the current or marginally improved level and (iii) orchestrate PSP with the specific objectives of.
*   Improving operating and financial efficiency in the provision of water and sewerage services, so that
WASCO can sustain growth of service provision, up to achieving full coverage in their areas of
service;
*   Ensuring an adequate return on financing channeled to the sector to finance investment projects for the
provision of water and sanitation services, so WASCO can effectively raise funds in capital markets or
its private operator can justify the financing of capital expenditures;
3 Reducing the fiscal burden on the government, so that the government can allocate scarce funds to the
production of other public services that are unable to provide full cost recovery or targeted subsidies in
the water sector.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Since 1998, the current Government has recognized the need for reforms in the water sector and as result
has instituted a series of actions leading to the separation of regulation and operations while granting the
newly corporatized company WASCO some autonomy in its day to day management. However the
Government has also transferred all the liabilities of WASA to the newly created WASCO burdening it
with a huge debt service that is sapping its ability to cover its O&M costs. During the identification mission
agreement was reached with the GoSL and WASCO management that a new project based on public
enterprise reform would not lead to any significant efficiency gains and would not address the pressing
issues of debt management and investments needs. Moreover, the failure of a 10-year twining arrangement
in the 1980's - with a British operator - to impart any lasting gains on WASA and the failure of the Bank's
proper Water Supply Project in the 1990s to strengthen the managerial and operational performance of
WASA have led support to base the proposed project design on furthering the reforms initiated so far.
Beside providing funds for urgently needed investments and improving the marketability of WASCO
employees (under the CDB-financed components) the proposed project (WB components) will essentially
help to: a) strengthen the institutional framework and b) support the transition from public to private sector
management of WASCO.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
*   Technical assistance for the strengthening of the regulatory and environmentalframework. This
- 5 -



component will finance consulting services to: 1) establish the regulatory framework; a) review the
Water Act and other key legislation and suggest ways of improving it; b) draft regulations; c)
recommend institutional set-up for the commission and its secretariat; d) outline the new operating
license; e) define training needs and organize workshops, 2) strengthen the environmental framework
including guidelines for environmrental licensing and impact assessment and 3) train the NWSC staff.
* Technical assistance for the strengthening of WASCO 's internal systems. This component will
finance: a) a diagnostic of specific functional areas and internal systems, e.g. management information
systems, financial management and accounting, customer service and operations, b) implementatio:n of
selected proposals for improved internal procedures and systems. The expected outputs are: improved
customer service, increased revenues, identification of training programs, a public relations programn
for consensus building within WASCO for private sector participation.
*   Technical assistance for carrying out the private sector transaction. This component will be
implemented in two parts: a) a feasibility study for the private sector participation (PSP) transaction
carried out after the regulatory work described above; and b) implementation of the private sector
participation transaction. Under the first part, the study will cover: (i) demand estimates, (ii) expansion
and rehabilitation investment needs assessment, (iii) financial modeling; (iv) PSP structure (debt
treatment, tariff levels and structure, ownership); (v) investor survey. Under the second part of this
component, investment bankers and legal services will be hired to prepare legal documents (contract)
and supervise the transaction for the concession of WASCO assets and its operations.
o   Urgently needed investments and asset rehabilitation. Under this component, four activities are
proposed: a) a meter purchase and installation program (including equipment for leak detection), b)
intake upgrade and new treatment plant at Woodlands/Grace (Vieux Fort system), c) replacement of
the raw water supply pipeline for Hill 20 water treatment plant, and d) replacement of the sewage
pumps in Castries. These priority items were identified by a pre-feasibility study carried out by a
consulting firm (Stantec) and discussed during the preparation missions. The detailed design of these
four sub-components will be initiated by early 2002; the costs of design and supervision will be borne
by the Borrower and are estimated to be US$0.16 million.
*   Project management and public information and dissemination campaign. This component will
finance part of the project management unit and a public information campaign, which will include
public consultations and workshops to disseminate and foster consensus on the PSP process, inclucding
a website. This component will also finance the financial audits of the project accounts and any
individual consultants required for project implementation.
Indicative             Bank-       % Of
Component                    Sector         Costs      /o %of    financing    Bank-
(US$M)    Total      (US$M)  financing
1. Strengthening of the sector                            0.58        6.9       0.57      21.9
regulatory and environmental
framework
2. TA to strengthen WASCO human                           0.60        7.2       0.00        0.0
resources and internal systems
3. TA to carry out studies and support                    0.88       10.5       0.87       33.5
PSP transaction
4. Urgently needed investments and                        3.66       43.8       0.00        0.0
asset rehabilitation
-6 -



5. Project management and public                         0.85      10.2       0.56      21.5
information and dissemination
campaign
Unallocated                                              0.25       3.0       0.25       9.6
Physical contingencies                                   0.86      10.3       0.22       8.5
Price contingencies                                      0.50       6.0       0.12       4.6
Total Project Costs                    8.18      97.8       2.59       99.6
Interest during construction                  0.12        1.4      0.00        0.0
Front-end fee                     0.06        0.7      0.01        0.4
Total Financing Required                      8.36     100.0       2.60      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Government has already initiated a series of reforms to put the sector on a course to bring private
sector participation in the sector. The proposed project will help to continue the reforms through the
transfer of WASCO's operations to the private sector. As mentioned above, some clarifications need to be
brought to the Water and Sewerage Act to provide clearer guidelines and policy framework for private
sector participation in the sector and give basis for the development of sector regulations.
3. Benefits and target population:
The expected benefits of the project are:
3   to ensure the continued and possibly improved water supply service in the transition phase (through the
investment component);
*   improved operating efficiency, quality and quantity of the water supply in the country once the private
operator is involved in the operations (reduced UFW, reduced rationing, lower O&M costs, etc.);
*   a larger percentage of those who are not connected to the water network or are heavily rationed are the
poor segments of the country and will be benefiting from any extension or improved operation of the
distribution system;
*  private sector capital mobilized to fund the expansion of the water supply and sewerage networks; and
*   increased availability of water that will encourage hotel construction and lead to an increase in tourism
revenues.
-7-



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period and Phasing. The Project is expected to be implemented in about four years. The
Project will initiate work on the regulatory framework first. It is important that, in a first instance, the
regulatory framework be strengthened to give comfort to private sector investors; likewise, the investments
planned under the Project are those urgently needed that would a) enhance the reliability of the system to
ensure adequate operation and b) generate basic data that is currently lacking and that would be needed for
fuller asset evaluation. It is expected that the investment component would be completed in the first tw o and
half years of the project. The feasibility and transaction work will follow the regulatory work once the latter
has been approved by the political instances. It is also expected that the project will provide technical
assistance to the regulators in the conduct of its activities and its contacts with the private operator in the
first year and half of the concession.
PMU. A Project Management Unit will be formed under a Project Coordinator reporting to the Permanent
Secretary in the Ministry of Planning, Development, Environment and Housing. The PM[U will also
include an engineer (also responsible for procurement), an accountant and an administrative assistant. The
main responsibilities of the PMU will be to initiate the implementation of the various components,
supervise their execution and prepare progress reports to the Banks on the status of implementation. T he
project will finance the Project coordinator's salary and the other professionals will be seconded from
WASCO.
Project Coordination and oversight. A Project Steering Committee, including representatives of the key
ministries (Finance, Planning, Public Utilities), WASCO and civil society will be formed to: a) represenlt
the Borrower, b) discuss broad implementation strategies, c) provide a forum for discussing the PSP
strategy, d) ensure coordination with relevant ministries and e) resolve major bottlenecks. It is expected that
the PC would act as the secretary of the Steering Committee, setting up its agenda and implementing its
decisions. The frequency of these meetings will be bimonthly. The minutes of the meetings will be made
available to the Bank on a timely basis.
Implementation and Procurement. The PMU will be responsible of the procurement of the goods and
services. During project preparation, a procurement plan was prepared and procurement capacity has been
evaluated (Annex 6). Although WASCO had implemented a Bank project which had parallel financing
from 3 other sources (CDB, OPEC and CIDA), the work was done by external consultants and little
experience with Bank guidelines might have remained within the institution; therefore, it is planned that the
PMU staff attend a Bank procurement training program early on in the project implementation phase.
Accounting and auditing. Project financial management will be carried out by the Project Accountanri,
reporting to the Project Coordinator. The financial management arrangements for the project, the results of
the FM assessment carried out by the Bank are detailed in Annex 6. The Project's and WASCO's acco-ants
will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Four alternatives were considered in the conceptualization of the project:
*   An investment project to improve the water distribution infrastructure. The water supply system is
- 8 -



in dire need of major capital investments to improve the efficiency of current operations and extend the
network to unserviced areas. However, under the current financial problems and the overall weak
management of the company, this option was rejected as it is believed that investmnents would not
necessarily lead to improved operations.
*   A TA project to improve the operational and managerial capacity of WASCO. Under the previous
loan, one of the main lessons learned was that, despite sizable investments in institutional
strengthening, there was little to show in terms of operational and managerial improvements at the end
of the project. This option was also rejected.
*   A TA project for a management contract and financing for short term investment needs. While
the Govemment understands the need to move towards a new paradigm and has already taken a number
of steps in the direction of separating operations from regulation and providing autonomy to the
company, consideration was given to private sector participation in the form of a management contract.
However, this option was also deemed unacceptable as it would not address the issue of capital
investments needs. Moreover, the Government of St. Lucia is not too keen for this type of PSP for the
lack of successful examples in the region. Finally, even if the model proved successful, the risk of
reverting to the old ways of doing things was seen too high, given the failed twinning experience in the
1980s.
*   Selected alternative: A TA project for a deeper form of PSP than management contract and
financing of urgently needed investments. After comparing the various altematives and weighing
them against the needs of WASCO, agreement was reached that a deeper form of PSP which would
bring irreversible changes to the company was the best way to go. The project will finance the technical
assistance required to make this happen and would in parallel provide funds to finance urgently needed
works over the next 2-3 years. The investment component is justified in light of the fact that many
parts of the water supply network are heavily unreliable and the goal is to prevent a partial or a total
collapse of a network component while working towards a more sustainable arrangement.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
atest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
To improve reliability of water supply  St Lucia - Water Supply Project  S         U
in the North and strengthen WASA's   - Closed March 1997
managerial, operational and financial
performance
To protect the islands coastal zones and OECS Waste Management -     S             S
the surrounding water from further    Closes Dec. 2001
degradation by focusing on waste
management, including investment solid
waste and Technical assistance for
-9-



liquid waste (TA component has a U
rating);
a) To develop the framework for a  St. Lucia Poverty Reduction       S             S
social fund model and to pilot the  Fund - Closes Dec. 2002
model's ability to increase access to and
quality of basic services among the
poor and b) to contribute to the
sustainability of the infrastructure;
a) to rehabilitate the hydraulic   Watershed & Environment           S              S
infrastructure following the Tropical   Management - Closed in Dec.
storm Debbie, b) to address the medium 1997
and long term requirements for
sustainable water shed development by
preparing a water shed development
plan and c) to strengthen the
Government capacities in environmental
management and flood preparedness;
Other development agencies
European Union                     Windward Islands Banana -
Water Resource Management
Component
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The design of this project draws on lessons learned in the implementation of Bank investment projects in
different countries, including the Caribbean region, as well as technical assistance projects in support of
private sector participation in this sector. In summary, they are:
*   investments in managerial and operational improvement programs in public water companies have not
provided lasting benefits. Under the proposed project, basic operational and managerial improvements
will be carried out to increase the attractiveness of the company to the private operator and to avoid
possible serious interruptions of service provision due to the collapse of parts of the system.
*   Strong political commitment from top levels of Government and wide support at the base are important
for the success of a PSP transaction. The Project will finance a public education campaign and a
consultation process to inform and seek support for the PSP proposal from various stakeholders;
*   PSP without a clear regulatory framework and competent regulators can frustrate efforts to attract
serious private investors. The Project will review the legal and regulatory framework and develop best
practice regulations and identify the training needs to the Commission and the permanent secretariat
that would be installed.
*   Limited local human resources can make it difficult to adequately address implementation issues in a
timely and cost effective manner. The creation of a strong project implementation unit and the use of
experienced intemational experts, when necessary, will contribute to the project success.
- 10-



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government's commitment to improve the sector performance by introducing private sector
participation is evidenced by the actions taken so far:
* In March 1999, the Government of St. Lucia passed into law The Water & Sewerage Act which
redefines the roles and responsibilities of governmental agencies and prescribes a regulatory and
operating framework for the development of St. Lucia's water sector. The Government has begun to
implement certain elements of the Act which include:
1. the transformation of the water utility from a state agency (WASA) to a government owned
corporation (WASCO), formally announced during a ceremony on December 6th 1999;
2. a down-sizing effort, supported largely through voluntary retirements, that has decreased the
permanent payroll from about 320 staff to about 260 staff over the last several months;
3. a 100% increase in the average water tariff-the first increase in nearly a decade (implemented in
February 2000); and
4. the creation of a National Water and Sewerage Commission to regulate the sector (as defined in the
Act passed in March, 1999) as well as the actual appointment of the eight commissioners.
e The Government and WASCO have funded the preparation of a pre-feasibility report "Distribution
Network Assessment and Project Prioritization Pre-lmplementation Studies";
e   WASCO, with the assistance of the Bank, has prepared the terms of reference of the various
consultancies to be funded under the TA component.
e   In June 2001, the Prime Minister sent a policy note endorsing the project's objectives and the sector
reform initiatives, in particular the private sector participation in WASCO's operations;
* During project preparation the Government and WASCO have initiated and competed the auditing of
the WASCO's financial statements for years 1997 to 1999; and
_  The Government agreed to cancel about EC$40 million of WASCO's debt to strengthen WASCO's
finances and to render the future PSP transaction viable.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Government of St. Lucia values the Bank's involvement in this process for the following reasons:
* The Bank's participation would bring to bear the lessons learned from its international experience from
many transactions that were carried out in the water sector.
*   The Bank's presence would lend credibility and transparency to the process of introducing private
sector participation in the operations of WASCO which in turn would foster an efficient delivery of
services.
- 11 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$34.5 million; ERR = 57 % (see Annex 4)
D Cost effectiveness
(X Other (specify)
The water sector reform technical assistance project is financially and economically viable as
demonstrated by the detailed financial, economic and distributive analysis carried out on all the
project components to be financed under this loan. As shown in Annex 4, these analyses were
complemented by appropriate sensitivity and risk assessments.
"With" and "without" project scenarios were built to identify the incremental costs and benefits
associated with the rehabilitation investments, the improvement of WASCO's human resources
and internal systems, and the strengthening of the sector regulatory framework. In the "with"
project scenario, the project is implemented and its associated targets in coverage, UFW reduction,
and quality service improvement are attained In the "without" project scenario, the current
performance as well as the commercial and operational indicators are kept constant.
The main benefits of the project considered in the analysis include: decrease in current rationing of
water, unaccounted for water reduction, and efficiency gains in the company.
The distributive analysis shows a net total benefit of US$ 34 million for society. Customers will be
the biggest winners (NPV of net benefits = US$ 17 million). The government will have a benefit of
US$ 11 million and the operator of the project US$ 6 million.
Sensitivity and risk assessment confirms the robustness of the project. The risk assessment of the
economic analysis shows that the likelihood of a negative economic output is 5%.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 16.6 million; FRR = 43 % (see Annex 4)
Financial Viability of Project. The financial viability of the project was appraised from an
investment point of view, i.e. excluding the cost of financing, which allows a more accurate
assessment of the intrinsic financial return of the project. Costs and benefits were measured at
market prices expressed in constant prices of June 2000. A 30 years lifetime horizon was used and
cash flows were discounted at an annual rate of 12% which is assumed to be a proxy of the St.
Lucia's opportunity cost of capital. All calculations are based on the assumptions presented in
Annex 4.
The risk assessment of the financial analysis shows that the likelihood of a negative financial output
is 1%.
- 12-



Financial Assessment of WASCO: Financial analysis was carried out to assess the historical and
current financial situation of WASCO, the public water company of St. Lucia, and to project its
future financial situation under with and without private sector participation scenarios. Financial
situation of WASCO improved substantially since 1999, when the new management increased the
tariff, negotiated reduction of debts with GoSL, and reduced the number of employees.
Nonetheless, as of the end of 2000, WASCO remained insolvent with more than EC$ 100 million
long-term debts on its books. If WASCO continues as "business as usual" with only modest
efficiency gains, it is projected that it would remain insolvent, and that the GoSL would eventually
need to assume a large portion of WASCO's outstanding debts. At the same time, WASCO can
only afford to invest at most EC$5 million annually, not sufficient to recover its deteriorating assets.
On the other hand, if WASCO is privatized (in the form of long-term concession), with the private
operator assuming a part of WASCO's outstanding debt, then the GoSL's fiscal expenditures would
be minimized, while WASCO would be able to invest on average EC$14 million annually in the
next several years.
Fiscal Impact:
Net fiscal impact of PSP was estimated under the most likely scenario B, in which the concessionaire
assumes a part of WASCO's outstanding debts.
Scenarios                            Net Impact to GoSL
(EC$ million)
With PSP (Base scenario - concessionaire assumes 65% WASCO debt)     6.4
Fiscal savings from PSP (Without PSP scenario)                       43.7
Net Fiscal Benefit from PSP                                          50.1
3. Technical:
The investment needs of WASCO are very large. This Project, however, will only finance a) those works
that are urgently needed to avoid any significant system failure in the next 2-3 years or b) the components
of the systems whose unreliability has been a source of frustration to the beneficiaries and WASCO. An
international consulting firm was hired by WASCO to assess the entire asset base and has presented a
ranking of the various priority works subprojects that would require immediate attention using criteria such
as the impact of failure and lack of reliability. There is widespread agreement between the consultants
conclusions, WASCO's engineering staff and the technical assessment of the preparation team. The design
of the selected subcomponents will be carried out by WASCO-financed consultants acceptable to CDB.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Borrower will be the Government of St. Lucia. The Ministry of Planning, Development, Environment
- 13 -



and Housing will be in charge of coordinating the project implementation through a PMU under the dlirect
supervision of the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry. WASCO will be carrying out the day-to-day
implementation of the works component and the strengthening of its intemal systems. The NWSC will be
the counterpart and beneficiary of the technical assistance to strengthen the regulatory framework.
4.2 Project management:
The Project Management Unit will be headed by a Project Coordinator who will report to the Permanent
Secretary of the Ministry of Planning. During project preparation, discussions were held to define the
members and roles of a Project Steering Committee which would include seniors levels of Government and
the civil society. It is expected that the PMU will include, beside the PC, an engineer, an accountant and
administrative assistant. The PMU will be based in offices on WASCO's premises.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A comprehensive country procurement assessment report (CPAR) for the OECS countries completed in
March 2001 has identified a number of differences between the existing procurement legislation and ]Bank
guidelines. The Bank will work with the GoSL on an action plan to improve overall procurement legal and
regulatory framework. A procurement plan has been prepared (for all components) and agreed with the
Bank (included in the operational manual). While the recruitment of the consultant services under the
Bank-financed components will follow Bank guidelines, experience with these guidelines needs to be
reinforced through training of the PMU team before the project is made effective. A training program is
being coordinated for January 2002.
4.4 Financial management issues:
During project preparation, the Bank was in the process of drafting a Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA) for St. Lucia and five other Eastern Caribbean countries. The preliminary findings of
this assessment were taken into consideration when designing the FM arrangements for the project. P'roject
financial management in St. Lucia has been generally adequate, and has seen improvements in recent years.
The Bank has worked with the Borrower so that this project can replicate some of the best practices of
other projects in St. Lucia. Staff from other projects, as well as Bank staff, have worked directly with the
project unit to build their financial management capacity and readiness to implement the project. Project
personnel are also expected to attend a seminar in key project management processes that is tentatively
planned for late 2001. During project preparation, WASCO undertook, through external private auditors,
the preparation of audited financial statements for years 1997, 1998, 1999 and 2000.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
A sectoral environmental assessment (SEA) was completed during project preparation which identified a
number of legislative, institutional and environmental issues related to the water sector that would be
addressed in the project.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Some recommendations of the SEA for improving environmental management will be implemented. These
include:
* assigning responsibility for national water resource management;
*   improving water resource management and enforcement capacity
- 14 -



*   defining roles and responsibilities in environmental licensing and enforcement of drinking water and
effluent standards;
*   ratifying the environmental assessment legislation, assigning responsibility and building capacity;
*   environmental audit by the transaction consultants which would look at any environmental liabilities
and present recommendations and cost estimates for achieving industry standards; and,
*   developing environmental guidelines for the design, construction and operation of water and sanitation
projects.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: February 26, 2001
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Stakeholders were consulted: a) during project preparation as part of general discussion of the project to
solicit views and seek support to the project concept and to define the environmental issues to be addressed
by the project; and b) in workshops during the discussions of the privatization strategy and private
operator's roles and responsibilities, i.e. before the transaction. Prior to appraisal, the SEA was sent to the
Bank's Infoshop and also electronically to numerous stakeholders in St. Lucia, including environmental
NGOs. Records of to whom the SEA was sent, and all feedback will be kept in project files.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Most development initiatives in the country require a license. The request for a license gets sent to various
Ministries for comment, at which point requirements are generated for granting of the license. New
legislation is under consideration for requiring Environmental Impact Assessments for development
projects. The EIA would have to be approved in order for a license to be granted. All recommendations of
the EIA would then be made part of the license.
The project will help update the national Water Resource Management (WRM) Plan in order to give the
designated unit solid baseline data for granting of licenses based on sound WRM. The update will focus on
current and future water abstraction and effluent discharge sites.
The environmental guidelines and impact assessment procedures will be written into the private sector
operation contract and will be monitored by the appropriate environmental agencies (functions will be
clearly identified in the contract). A monitoring scheme will be developed for ambient water quality,
including location, frequency, tests and reporting requirements. The operator will be required to monitor
and report on its performance in meeting standards, and the Ministry of Health will be charged with
enforcing (and randomly checking the accuracy of) these parameters.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The key social issues relevant to the project objectives are:
a) The key issue that would affect the poor segments of society is the impact of PSP on tariffs. In St.
- 15 -



Lucia, tariffs were doubled in February 2000, the first increase in 10 years and so far no clear major
impact was detected by the social assessment. The impact to date might not be too severe given that 'lvater
is not metered to any significant extent and rationing is still high. The poor management information system
in WASCO renders difficult any analysis at this juncture. The Hotel Association has challenged this
measure and has complained that the price of water in St. Lucia is now among the highest in the Cari bbean
islands.
b) The low level of sewage collection in a country where is soil is mainly made of impermeable volcanic
materials, the impact on health should be a matter of concem as well as the impact on tourism, a ma- n
source of income of the islanders.
c) The design of the transaction for PSP should take into consideration the issue of extending service lo the
poorest who are the ones without service today. Here the issue should be the cost of connection and the
tariff to be charged.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
During preparation a social impact assessment was carried out (See Annex I1). In the study, surveys and
focus groups were carried out. All key stakeholders in the Project were consulted: a) the residential water
customers, b) the tourism industry (the hotel association), c) private sector and d) associations, NGCiS,
unions and community-based organizations representing the poor customers.
6 3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
It is proposed that a joint committee with stakeholder representatives will be formed to accompany
implementation of the project. The Steering Committee which will have overall responsibility of the project
,will include representatives of the private sector and civil society. As mentioned above, during project
plreparation focus groups have been consulted and would be reconvened under the Public dissemination
campaign component. During the implementation, the PSP consultant will be required to "take along thle
stakeholders" by sharing and explaining the pros and cons of the transaction until the joint committee Is
flbly on board. This effort would take some effort from the part of the consultant to convince the
stakeholders of the benefits of the transaction and solicit solutions to the issues facing WASCO.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
cevelopment outcomes?
The social development outcomes that are sought in this project are: a) increase the access of the island
population to clean and safe water; b) minimize the negative impact of tariff increase on the poor. The
design of the concession contract would be used as a tool to ensure that service extension is directed to the
lowv- income areas and that the tariff design to be implemented will take into consideration the ability of the
poor to pay for a minimal level of service.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Tlhe outcome will be monitored as part of the Bank's supervision and revision of the consultants work to
ensure that the social development outcomes of the privatization -as indicated above- would be guararteed
under the concession.
- 16-



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     C Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      O Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   C Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             O Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              O Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*        0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
In St. Lucia and elsewhere, experience has shown that improved performance of public utilities is not
sustained due to a number of factor, key among them: political interference in management, lack of
competition for the market, lack of economic incentives in terms of contractual agreements and clear
regulatory framework. This Project will help ensure WASCO's performance sustainability through: a) a
long-term private sector involvement in the sector operations where the gains would be irreversible for a
long-time, b) the de-linking of WASCO's operations from political interference and c) economic incentives
for increased efficiency and customer responsiveness.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Weak and poorly functioning, regulatory     S         Although the project includes a component to
commission                                            strengthen this capacity, political interference
might still present residual risk. In parallel to
this project, the Bank is supporting a regional
effort to set up a regional regulatory agency for
water and energy which would further reduce (in
the medium term) any potential Government
interference.
Lack of social and political support to     M         A focused public education campaign will be
PSP                                                   part of the Project to explain the benefits and
risks of the project to a wide segment of
stakeholders. The social assessment has shown a
widespread dissatisfaction with WASCO's
services.
- 17 -



Inappropriate pricing of water and          M         Prices have been increased 100% tc, reach an
sewerage services                                     average of US$1.30 per m3, whict is higher
than in most islands
From Components to Outputs
Continuous political support and            S         The public education and discussion of the PSP
commitment to reform waning, in                       would help ensure a public backing to the
particular after elections in 2002                    process
lDelays in the timely contracting of TA      S        Have the bidding documents prepared prior to
Consultants                                          the initiation of the project
The TA Consultants do not have              S         In the case that no local qualified staff are
competent counterparts within the                     found, international consultants will be hired
Agencies and/or PMU
No counterpart funds are available          M         Will ensure strong Government support from the
beginning.
Overall Risk Rating                         S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
1Ihe Borrower will ensure that the Ministry of Planning establishes, and thereafter maintains, the PMUJ
staffed by adequate numbers of professionals with qualifications, experience, functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank and with adequate equipment to enable the PMU to function properly;
No withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures until: (i) the Bank has received
notice from the Borrower that external auditors acceptable to the Bank have been appointed by the
Borrower; and (ii) a memorandum of understanding has been signed between the Borrower, NWSC and
WASCO;
No withdrawals shall be made for Component 3 until activities under Component 1 of the Project have been
completed
- 18-



H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0I 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Alexander E. Bakalian             DSy  . Leipzige                   Orsalia Zalantzopoulos
Team Leader                       Sector ManagerlD/r cr             Country Manager/Director
- 19 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ST. LUCIA: Water Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives I        Indicators                                      Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  |Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
The creation of an enabling   Widespread acknowledgement Surveys and independent
enx ironment including    that quality and coverage of  sector reviews
improved environmental and  services have improved
infi astructure
regulationrmanagement for
continued or increased private
investment in utilities.
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
To prepare and transit the    Timely preparation and  Financial appraisal from  Political commi tment to
wat*3r company to private  promulgation of regulations  investment bank and financial impartial regulatory oversight
sector management within a                           consultant
sound legal and regulatory    Favorable assessment from                         A private operator investing
framework                 investment bank and financial Regulations passed     in system expansion
consultants on WASCO                                 according to plan
l                  ~~~~~~~Independent reviews of
PS operator in place      regulatory agency
performance
Adequate performance of
regulatory body in terms of
timely decision making
Output from each          Output indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Well functioning, independent
1. T he regulatory commission Regulations ratified by June   Regulatory Review  regulatory commission
and its staff is set up and  2003
functioning properly                                  Skills evaluation upon    Social and polit; cal support to
training completion       PSP
Appropriate pricing to Water
and Sewerage services
2. The skills of WASCO    At least 50% of employees    Post training evaluation test
employees are increased to a  pass skills post training in    by training agencies
sufficient level to make them  their areas of work (finance,
attractive to the private sector operations, management,
for retention and reliable  customer services), by June
- 20 -



management data are        30, 2004
produced
3. The attractiveness of    Sound divestiture plan     Bidding request reports
WASCO to the private sector developed, by December 3 1,
is made clear and the      2003                        Project management reports
transaction facilitated
At least 3 private sector
companies present bi. is
procurement process is
efficient, competitive and
transparent
Contract with private operator
signed, by December 31, 2004
4. The deterioration of the    Improved quality; 98% of  Operations review
water system is            samples within WHO
halted/stabilized - the    guidelines, by Dec. 31, 2003   Maintenance review
integrity of the system is
maintained                 Rationing decreased; water   Review of water quality data
made available at least 10 hrs
per day in all parts of the
island by June 30, 2004.
metering increased from 50%
to 100% by end of 2003.
S. The management of the   100% adherence to           Project progress reports
project is effective and the  procurement procedures
public informed of the
transition process         No greater than 75 days     Procurement review
variance in planned vs actual
Timely auditing of accounts   Management reports
70% of population aware of   Public opinion polls
the positive benefits of
privatization by June 30, 2004
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:           (from Components to
- 21 -



Sub-components:            component)                                           Outputs)
1. TA for strengthening of   Total Cost: US$0.58 million   Progress Reports;    Continuous political support
the regulatory and                                   Disbursement data          and commitment to reform, in
environmental framework                                                         particular after e lections in
2002
1.1. Revised legal and
regulatory framework,
including drafting of                                                           Timely contracting of
regulations and training of                                                     Consultants
Regulatory Commission
1.2 Development of
environmental impact
assessment guidelines and
environmental regulations
2. TA to strengthen WASCO  Total Cost: US$0.6 million                           Consultants have competent
human resources and internal                                                    counterparts within the
systems                                                                         Agencies and/or PMU
Counterpart funds are
available
3. TA to carry out PSP    Total Cost: US$0.88 million
transaction
3.1 Feasibility studies for the
private operation (technical
and financial)
3.2 Assistance for the
preparation of the
concessioning documents and
supervising the transaction
4. Urgently needed        Total Cost: US$3.66 million
investments and asset
rehabilitation
4.1. Rehabilitation works
(water treatment plant in
Vieux Fort, sewage pumps in
Castries and Replacement of
trans:mission lines from
source to the treatment plant
in Hill 20)
4.2. Purchase and installation
of water meters
4.3 Engineering Designs and
- 22 -



supervision of works
5. Project management and   Total Cost: US$0.85 million
public information and
dissenination
5.1 Project management unit
and consultants
5.2 Public information and
consensus building campaigns
5.3 External audits
5.4 Office Equipment
- 23-



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ST. LUCIA: Water Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$0.58 million
Technical assistance for the strengthening the regulatory and environmentalframework (WB
financed). Terms of reference prepared. This component will finance 2 consulting services to:
*   establish the regulatory framework;
(i) review the Water Act and other key legislation and suggest ways of improving it;
(ii) draft regulations for the Water Act;
(iii) recommend institutional set-up for the commission and its secretariat;
(iv) outline the new operating license;
(v) define institutional responsibilities for environmental and water resource management,
monitoring and enforcement and improve capacity;
(vi) define training needs and organize workshops.
*   strengthen the environmental and water resource management framework, including a)
preparing guidelines for environmental licensing and b) guidelines for impact assessment of
water and sewage projects and c) updating of the watershed management plan to provide good
baseline data on water resources (this will serve as a planning tool for WASCO, as well as a
basis for granting licenses for new or expansion of existing abstraction sites and effluent
discharge sites).
Project Component 2 - US$0.60 million
Technical assistance for the strengthening of WASCO 's internal systems (CDB financed). Terms
of reference prepared.. This component will finance:
(i) a diagnostic of specific functional areas and internal systems, e.g. management
information systems, financial management and accounting, customer service and
operations,
(ii) implementation of proposed improved internal procedures and systems.
'Fhe expected outputs are: improved customer service, increased revenues, identification of training
programs, a public relations program for consensus building within WASCO for private sector
participation.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.88 million
Technical Assistance for carrying out the private sector transaction (concession). WB-financed.
Terms of reference prepared. This component will be implemented in two parts:
*   a feasibility study for the private sector participation (PSP) transaction carried out in
parallel with the regulatory work described above; the study will cover:
(i) demand estimates,
(ii) expansion and rehabilitation investment needs assessment,
(iii) financial modeling;
(iv) PSP structure (debt treatment, tariff levels and structure, ownership);
(v) investor survey; and,
- 24 -



(vi) environmental audit which will determine liabilities and explore options for
achieving industry standards (IS09000/14000, etc.)
(vii) preparation of guidelines for private sector participant, containing comprehensive
information on requirements such as licensing, operational guidelines, design standards
and technical specifications, construction practices, monitoring and reporting
requirements, protocol for future expansion, etc.
*   implementation of the concession transaction. Under this part of the component,
investment bankers and legal services will be hired to prepare legal documents
(concession contract) and promote and supervise the transaction for the concession of
WASCO assets and its operations.
Project Component 4 - US$3.66 million
Urgently needed investments and asset rehabilitation. Under this component (to be financed by
CDB), 4 activities are proposed:
* a meter purchase and installation program (including equipment for leak detection),
* intake upgrade and new treatment plant at Woodlands/Grace,
i replacement of the raw water supply pipeline for Hill 20 water treatment plant, and
3 replacement of the sewage pumps in Castries.
These priority items were identified by a pre-feasibility study carried out by an international
consulting firm (Stantec) and discussed in previous missions. The detailed design of these 4
sub-components will be initiated by early July 2001. The costs of design and supervision will be
borne by WASCO (US$0. 160 million).
Project Component 5 - US$0.85 million
Project management and public information and dissemination campaign. (WB-financed). This
component will finance part of the Project management unit (the project coordinator only - the other
PMU staff to include an engineer, an accountant and administrative assistant will be funded by the
GoSL) and a public information campaign, which will include public consultations and workshops
to disseminate and foster consensus on the PSP process and to educate the public on water scarcity
issues. The PMU will prepare terms of reference for the design and implementation of the public
information campaign and will submit to the WB for review and approval. This component will also
finance the procurement of office equipment (up to $50,000), the financial audits of the project
accounts and individual consultants to beef up the PMU as needed.
Project Component 6 - US$0.25 million
Unallocated. (WB-financed). These funds are made available to be utilized primarily for training
purposes (once the training needs for the regulators are identified under the first component).
Moreover, these funds will be utilized to provide technical assistance in the post-concession period
allowing on the job training and extemal consultant input to help the regulator in its activities.
These funds could also be possibly allocated for training vouchers or a retrenchment program if the
Government wishes so as a result of the PSP feasibility study (component 3).
- 25 -



Attachment to Annex 2. Technical Note on WASCO's Operations
A. Background
The Water and Sewerage Authority (WASA) was established in 1984 as a statutory body headed by
a Board of Directors (BOD) reporting to the Ministry of Communications, Transport and Public
Utilities. Rates were set by a Government-established Public Utilities Commission. Under WASA,
and with funding from CDB, WB and the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), a
major project involving the construction of the John Compton Dam and accompanying pipelines,
pumping stations and a water treatment plant was completed in 1996, primarily to serve the needs
of the northern parts of the island.
Since its establishment, the service performance of WASA has been less than satisfactory. GoSL
made several changes to the institutional structure and senior management personnel over time in an
effort to improve WASA's performance. A major effort consisted in a twinning arrangement with
the Wessex Water Authority of the UK which facilitated technology transfer and technical
assistance in the 1980's. Institutional strengthening and improvement of operational systems were
also components of the CDB/WB/CIDA- funded water supply project. Notwithstanding these
interventions, WASA was unable to sustain improvements to its technical, financial and
administrative performance.
In October 1999, GoSL restructured the sector by establishing a new entity, WASCO, and passing
a new sector law. WASCO is incorporated under the Companies Act and regulated in accordance
with the provisions of the Water and Sewerage Act. The Act established the National Water and
Sewerage Commission (NWSC) to regulate the granting of licences, the development and control of
water supply and sewerage facilities, and the regulation of all tariffs and related matters. Pursuant
to the provisions of the Act, the Minister of Communications Works Transport and Public Utilities
appointed eight members to sit on NWSC.
B. Water Supply
There are four major water supply systems in the country: a) three in the North: Castries to Cap
system, Hill 20, Mome-Fortune Bocage system and b) one in the South: the Vieux Fort system
consisting of two plants, the Woodlands /Grace and the Beausejour plants. The supply to the
treatment plants is from water streams through both gravity and pumped conveyance systems. All
flows except the Woodlands/Grace supply in Vieux Fort are now treated in filtration plants and
disinfected. Delivery to customers is by gravity or pressure systems. Reservoirs are used to provide
emergency, peaking and fire protection storage. Tanks are generally in ground concrete structures
or above ground bolted steel tanks.
The age of the system components varies widely, with many facilities in the order of 50 years old.
Pipe networks contain old cast iron, some newer ductile iron, PVC from the mid 1980's and there is
some asbestos cement piping in use. The Theobalds treatment plant was constructed in the mid
1990's; the Hill 20 and Beausejour plants were built in the 1940's.
Service lines to customers are a mix of galvanized iron, copper and PVC piping. WASCO is
progressing with an extensive program of upgrading and adding to its customer meters. 18,000
- 26 -



meters are being installed this year in the northern systems and WASCO intends to extend the
program (12,000 meters) into the southern region later this year.
The majority of the water supply facilities in the south of the island is not adequately equipped to
consistently treat the raw water to the desired standards, particularly during periods of intense
rainfall when turbidity is high. As a consequence, southern areas, including the town of Vieux Fort,
suffer from frequent plant shutdowns during the rainy season when it is not possible to consistently
deliver water that satisfies the guidelines recommended by the World Health Organization.
Customer Base. Growth in the total number of connections is directly proportional to size of
population, average size of households and service coverage. The population of St. Lucia is
projected to increase by 2% p.a. with an average household size of three persons per household.
WASCO is expected to increase service coverage from an estimated 70% in 2000 to 85% in 2008.
By category, the breakdown of the customer base shows 38,346 domestic, 3,565 commercial,
government and industrial and 77 hotel connections. Approximately, 12 ships call to port on an
annual basis. For each customer category, the historical percentage of the total customer base is
applied in the projections. During the period of the project, growth in domestic connections is based
on actual applications for new connections and the growth in the number of hotel rooms is based on
proposed new developments.
Factors affecting Operations. Some of the factors, which must be taken into account in addressing
the operations of WASCO's water and sewerage systems, include the following:
Population and Demand Estimates. Population distribution and water flow and demand data are
not available to the degree required to estimate flows in networks with confidence. Population
information is required to establish design flows for elements of systems and to predict when
infrastructure will need to be upgraded or replaced.
Base Mapping of Network Piping. WASCO does not have base mapping of its distribution
networks. WASCO should compile master record drawings of its networks for future planning and
management. This should include pipe diameters, materials and age, recording meter locations,
pressure zone boundaries and zone isolation valves.
Population Demographics. Information on community planning demographic and settlement
strategies at a detailed level are not available, making prediction of future demands in networks
difficult to assess.
Island Geography and Climate. The island has been created by volcanic activity resulting in
hydrogeological, terrain and soils conditions that adversely affect pipeline installations. Existing
mains traverse steep slopes and cross rivers, which turn into torrents under heavy rains, often
causing pipeline washouts and failures. Steep terrain has also influenced settlement patterns and the
arrangement of water distribution networks. Fragmented systems with many reservoirs and pumping
stations are typical, giving rise to pockets of very high pipeline working pressures. This makes
rearrangement of systems into new pressure zones difficult to plan. However, there are some
systems which would clearly benefit from pressure zoning to reduce working pressures Moreover,
climatic conditions take their toll on metals and other materials of construction and are particularly
hard on electrical control and power installations. Hurricanes and the resulting flooding and river
torrents combine to threaten supply and treatment system components and power supplies. This is a
particular concern to the stability of supply from stream and river supply sources.
- 27 -



Electrical Power Costs. The present cost to WASCO for electrical power is between EC$ 350,OOC
and $400,000 per month, largely consumed for water and sewage pumping. St. Lucia generates
electricity by diesel fuelled generating stations, with an electrical power tariff for three phase power
this year set at $0.467/ kWh, plus a fuel surcharge of $0.182/ kWh, for a combined unit cost of
$0.649/ kWh. A typical 7.5 kW pump running 16 hours/day will thus create an annual power cost
of $28,500 / year. The Choc booster used 384,664 kWh in 1999, which, at this year's tariff, would
cost $250,000. The soon-to-be-commissioned San Souci booster station will have a 75 hp motor
running round the clock, adding a further annual power cost of approximately $400,000 / year.
These examples indicate the very high cost of pumping of water in St. Lucia and the benefit of
capital works, where practical, that can relieve friction losses and unnecessary energy use.
Water Quality. Raw water quality data for the sources were reviewed during preparation. The
waters are surface waters from streams and are relatively soft with hardness 50 mg/L as CaCO3 or
less, moderate alkalinity (35 mg/L or less) and variable turbidity and color. The Vieux Fort supply
from Beausejour has some iron (0.26 mg/L) and the old plant had an aerator pre treatment element.
for oxidation of iron. It is noted that the raw water data for the T.R. Theobalds plant do not define
whether the water is from the Roseau Dam source or the Millet River or whether it represents a
blend of the two sources. The sample data do not report E-coli, or faecal and total coliforms in the
raw water; however, it is expected that these would be present due to the extent of human settlemer,t
and agriculture in each of the catchments upstream from intakes. The WHO guidelines require that
E. coli or thermo-tolerant coliform bacteria must not be detectable in any 100-mL sample of treated
water in a distribution system. In large supplies, with frequent sampling, 95% of samples in any
12-month period this indicator must be at a non-detectable level. WASCO monitors raw and treated
water quality, including microbiological testing, at its Theobalds plant laboratory from monthly
collections of samples island-wide.
Transmission and Distribution System. In 1996, with the commissioning of the Dam and
associated treatment plant and pumping facilities, there was a significant improvement in the water
supply production capacity. These developments represented the initial phase of a holistic plan for
enhancing the delivery of potable water to consumers in the north. It was envisaged that there
would be further investment aimed at upgrading the capacity of the T&D systems to ensure that the
water produced could be efficiently transported to the hydraulic extremities of the system.
Unfortunately, because of financial and institutional constraints, the then WASA had been unable to
pursue these plans.
GoSL/WASCO has already taken steps to improve the transmission capacity with financial
assistance from the French agency, Groupe Agence Francaise de Developpement. The works
involve the design and construction of a 20-inch transmission pipeline from Port Castries to Choc
Estate in the north of the island, a distance of 6.7 km. WASCO has also just completed the
cleaning, to remove encrustation, of the transmission pipeline from Choc to Cap. These works will
serve to more efficiently transmit water delivered from the Dam.
Storage. The total storage capacity in St. Lucia is approximately 27,000m3, with 16,000m3
installed in the north and  1 ,000m3 in the South. This is equivalent to 11.5 hours storage in the
North and 12.5 hours storage in the South.
Metering and Unaccounted for water. WASCO has recently been upgrading its customer meter
installations and is presently adding new meters and replacing old, unreliable meters in the Northern
- 28 -



Region. A total of 18,000 meters will be in service in the near future, allowing billing of all water
delivered to residential and commercial customers. Contractors, many of who are previous WASA
employees, are making the meter plumbing installations. The billing data systems are currently
being created and WASCO will soon be able to quantify revenue water consumed in the north.It is
intended that the metering program will be extended into the Southern Region as a second phase of
this program. This will require the purchase of 12,000 meters and contracting for the installation of
the meters. In the Castries and Castries to Cap distribution networks, metering data from 1996,
together with flow measurements taken in the spring of 1999 suggest that the unaccounted for water
amounted to about 55% of the total produced.
Bulk Water Meters. As indicated previously, there are a large number of bulk meters at strategic
junctions, pump stations and reservoirs within the supply and distribution systems. Unfortunately,
the majority of these need repair and replacement of the internal meter elements. In the northern
region, 47 meters of 85 need repair. Bringing these meters back into service is essential to future
management of water systems to establish the real magnitude of Non Revenue water and
Unaccounted for Water. Bulk meters will allow system operators to react to changing flow
conditions and observe the increases in flow which indicate major leaks or line breaks. They will
enable water audits to be performed on area sub-systems as the first step in a Leak Detection
program.
Consumption. A review of selected customer accounts in St. Lucia has revealed that per capita
domestic consumption was about 75 gpcd (340 Ipcd) when meters were first installed. This is an
approximation of the consumption patterns for unmetered customers. After six months this
consumption steadily decreased to between 45 gpcd (200 Ipcd) and 50 gpcd (225 lpcd).
Approximately 45% of the customer base of about 42,000 are fitted with working meters and
WASCO is currently engaged in a program to install an additional 6,000 meters, which will result
in about 60% of the customer base being metered. This project proposes to assist WASCO in
achieving universal metering by the end of 2002. Demand projections are therefore based on 50
gpcd (225 lpcd) for metered domestic customers and 75 gpcd (340 Ipcd) for unmetered. The
majority of non-domestic customers are fitted with working meters. An analysis of water usage in
the hotel sector indicates that consumption is of the order of 290 gallons per room per day (1300
liters per room per day). With respect to commercial and industrial customers, the average water
consumption per connection was found to be approximately 70 gpcd (320 lpcd).
C. Sewerage
The development of the waste water collection, treatment and disposal systems has lagged behind
the development of potable water systems. The Castries sewerage system was developed in the
early 1950s and services the business center and some 12,000 people in the surrounding residential
areas. The system is in a poor state of repair with frequent breakdowns of mechanical and electrical
equipment at the lift stations creating overflows in the system. In addition, untreated sewerage is
discharged into Castries Inner Harbour where it is discharged without treatment. In 1996, a new
sewerage system was constructed at Rodney Bay and the Town of Gros Islet in the north, and the
wastewater is treated in a complex of anaerobic and aerobic lagoons, prior to discharge to the sea,
via natural drainage ways, at Rodney Bay. There has been a reluctance of businesses and residents
to connect to the system as this would increase their tariff, which for sewage is based on 100% of
water consumed. This system is therefore underutilized notwithstanding the provisions of the
Public Health Act which makes connections within a sewered area mandatory.
- 29 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ST. LUCIA: Water Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project
Local        Foreign   r   Total
Pinroject Cost Biy Component               US $million    US $million    US $million
1.Strengthening the regulatory and environmental framework   0.02          0.56          0.58
2. Strengthening of WASCO's internal systems                 0.20          0.40          0.60
3. Private Sector Participation                              0.14          0.74          0.88
4. Urgently needed investments and asset rehabilitation      1.73          1.93          3.66
5. Project management, audits and public information and     0.65          0.20          0.85
dissemination campaign
6. Unallocated                                               0.00          0.25          0.25
0.00
Total Baseline Cost                                          2.74          4.08          6.82
Physical Contingencies                                      0.35          0.51          0.86
Price Contingencies                                         0.19          0.31          0.50
Total Project Costs                3.28          4.90           8.18
Interest during construction                  0.12           0.12
Front-end fee                      0.06          0.06
Total Financing Required                3.28           5.08          8.36
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                 US $million    US $million    US $million
Goods                                                          0.00           2.18          2.18
Works                                                          2.19           0.00          2.19
Services                                                       1.09           2.44          3.53
Unallocated                                                    0.00           0.28          0.28
Total Project Costs       3.28           4.90           8.18
Interest during construction                  0.12           0.12
Front-end fee                     0.06           0.06
Total Financing Required        3.28           5.08          8.36
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 8.36 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost shating  atio is 31.1% of total
project cost net of taxes.
- 30 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
ST. LUCIA: Water Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project
Objective
A cost-benefit analysis was conducted to determine the financial and economic feasibility of each project
component, measure the distributive impact of the project, and to identify the main risks that can affect the
outcome of the project.
Methodology
The project was evaluated from two different perspectives. First from a financial perspective, the project
was appraised measuring its flow of costs and benefits at market prices of June 2000. Financial costs were
obtained by multiplying the prices paid by the operator for each input by the amount consumed of such
inputs. Financial benefits were assumed equal to the estimated flow of financial revenues defined as
current and expected tariffs multiplied by the number of customers, or by the estimated consumption.
From an economic perspective, the project was appraised converting financial cash flows into economic
cash flows through the use of: (i) the cost of water rationing to capture the benefits of expected
improvements in the reliability of water supply; and (ii) conversion of financial prices to economic prices,
by subtracting taxes and adding subsidies to financial costs.
Once the economic and financial feasibility was confirmed, a distributive analysis was conducted to assess
the impact of each activity on specific groups of stakeholders, including the Government, customers, and
society. Finally, the results of the financial and economic analysis were tested against real world
uncertainties by conducting a sensitivity and risk analysis, which assessed the impact of changes in critical
assumptions on the feasibility of the project.
Scenarios. "With" and "without" project scenarios were built to identify the incremental costs and
benefits associated with each investment component. The "with" project scenario considers the proposed
investment plan and its associated targets. The "without" project scenario considers that the service would
continue unchanged; i.e. current operational, commercial, and financial performance, as well as coverage
levels.
Incremental Costs and Benefits. Costs and Benefits are expressed in constant prices and projected over
30 years, the estimated lifetime of the project', including the implementation period. The cash flows were
discounted using a rate of 12%, which is assumed as a proxy for St. Lucia's opportunity cost of capital.
Benefits of the project include the reduction or elimination of rationing and intermittent water provision,
water quality improvements, and service coverage increase, both in water and sewerage. Financial benefits
were estimated based on tariffs, the number of customers, the volume of water consumed, and the volume
of sewage collected. Economic benefits were estimated based on the cost of rationing as a proxy of the
benefit of improving water service reliability.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Financial Results
As Table 1 shows, the project is financially feasible with a financial surplus of EC$ 45 million in NPV and
- 31 -



a financial rate of return of 43 %.
Table 1 - Results of financial Analysis (EC$ 000)
Present Value of Flows
Benefits         Costs       Net Benefit     IRR
Water & Sewerage Projects
North     51,541          19,428         32,113        37%
South    16,365           3,582          12,783        99%
Total Project                  67,906          23,010         44,896        43%
Economic Results
Cost of Rationing. About 15 % of the current demand for water are not supplied due to production
capacity limits. With the project, the rationing will be reduced. The costs to cope with rationing was used
to estimate the benefits associated with the improvements in service reliability. Without the project, a large
number customers would bear the cost of building and maintaining individual reservoirs (tanks) designed to
mitigate the impact of rationing and intermittent services, or buy water from private water trucks. WVVith the
project, only a number of customers would resort to such solutions. As a result, the cost of coping with
rationing, which was estimated at twice the current tariff, offers a good approximation of the benefit:
associated with the improvement in the reliability of the water supply service. The volume of water
rationed was calculated as the difference between the water production and distribution capacity of the
system and the projected demand for water, when the demand exceeded the capacity. This analysis i's made
for dry season as well as for non-dry season.
Investment costs. To calculate economic investment costs two steps were taken: (i) convert financial costs
into economic costs, by subtracting taxes, and adding subsidies; and (ii) include investments which are not
paid by the operator but are required for the project. Investment such as, TA costs to strengthen of the
Sector regulatory framework and to carry out studies for PSP transaction, are paid by the Govemrnent and
therefore are included as economic investment cost.
The results from the economic analysis show a net benefit of EC$ 93 million in NPV and economic rate of
return of 57%
Table 2 - Results of Economic Analysis (EC$ 000)
Present Value of Flows
Benefits         Costs       Net Benefit |    RR
Water Projects
North    100,306          18,285         82,021        61%
South    14,830           3,504          11,325       44%
Total Project                  115,136         21,790         93,346        57%
Distributive Analysis
The difference between the economic and financial cash flows was analyzed to determine who benefits and
who pays for the project. The customers are the big winners, with a net gain of EC$ 48 million in NPV.
- 32 -



This gain comes from the savings they will have for having good service, and what they will pay for the
service. (table 3)
Table 3 - Distribution of Costs and Benefits
Present Value of Flows (ECS 000)
Water &            Water             Total
Sewerage
North             South
Government
Taxes
On Investments                            662                98               761
On operating costs                        202                71               273
Total taxes                               865                169             1,034
Transfer to compensate operating losses     19,354             9,486            28,839
Regulation fee                               2,114              831             2,945
Transaction cost related to sector reform   (1,846)            (923)           (2,768)
Total Government                            20,487             9,563            30,050
Operator
Profit from business                        12,770             3,298            16,057
Customers
Service payments                           (51,541)           (16,365)         (67,906)
Benefits from reducing rationing            100,306            14,830           115,136
Total Customers                             48,765            (1,536)           47,229
Total Benefit                               82,021             11,325           93,346
The Government will benefit from the project since it will get revenues from: (i) taxes for investment and
operating costs to be used in the project; (ii) regulation fee, to be charge to the private operator when
concession is granted. At the same time, the government will pay for all the transaction costs related to
sector reform. The net impact for the Government is positive and equal to EC$ 2 million (not including the
savings of transfers to compensate for WASCO's operating losses).
When financial benefits are included they are distributed to: (i) the government with an additional EC$ 28
million for savings from not having have to transfer funds to WASCO to compensate operating losses; and
(ii) the water operator for EC$ 16 million for operating the project. The financial benefits thus would be
EC$ 44 million in total.
Main Assumptions:
The primary source of data was WASCO, which provided current population, commercial information,
investment costs, and project specifics.
Population. Current population was based on Government statistics published by the Minister for Finance,
Economic Affairs and Information The Minister for Finance, Economic Affairs and Information. Economic
And Social Review 1999. The Division of Research, Development and Policy. March 2000, page 171.
Population projection was based on an annual growth of 1.6%, which corresponds to the annual growth
from 1992 through 1999.
Per capita water consumption for metered customers was assumed 44 gal/day; according to the average
- 33 -



consumption of the 55% households metered; and for non-metered customers were estimated as 75 gal/day.
Commercial and industrial consumption is assumed as 22% of residential, and the tourist sector was
assumed a consumption of 286 gal/day/room in the hotels and 6,095 gallons per ship per day. For sewage
collection projections, a discharge factor of 85% and an infiltration factor of 1.20 were assumed. D[uring
the dry season the per capita consumption does not increase as shown commercial information from
WASCO.
Coverage is assumed to remain at its current levels of 70 % in water and 10 % in sewerage in the "without
project" scenario. In the "with project" scenario, it increases to 82 % in water in the "with" project
scenario. The project does not consider expansion, but emergency rehabilitation works will allow WASCO
reduce its physical losses, and have more water supply for connecting new consumers. In sewerage the
coverage will remain at its current values in the "with" project scenario, since the project will improve
quality of current service but does not consider expansion.
Production Capacity remains in the current levels in the "without project" scenario, and increases
according to investment targets in the "with project" scenario. The intake capacity diminishes during dry
season, and these changes are included in the production capacity).
Tariffs are kept unchanged in real prices in both scenarios (with and without project). Details on current
tariffs are presented in Annex..
Revenues were calculated as the sum of service charges for metered and non-metered consumers. For
metered customers service charges were calculated as the volume of water billed multiplied by the
corresponding current tariff. For non-metered consumers service charges were calculated as the number of
non-metered connections multiplied by their fixed monthly charge. The result was affected by the rev enue
collection rate.
Revenue Collection Rate. It is defined as sales collected over total sales. In the "without project" sc:enario,
it remains at current level of 65%. In the "with project" scenario, it is assumed to progressively inc-ease to
75% for residential customers and to 90% for non-residential customer.
Investment. In the "without" project scenario were considered all investment costs that will be done even if
the project is not executed, such as, the 20" pipeline in the north from Port Castries to Choc Estate, which
will increase transmission capacity. In the "with" project scenario, investment costs include all the
components of the project as shown in table 1, plus physical contingencies, supervision and taxes. The
"with" project scenario also includes complementary investment, which is related with future service
expansions made possible by excess capacity resulting from the project rehabilitation investments, as well
as for the secondary network works WASCO is already doing. Other investment costs are the replacement
of equipment such as pumps, meters during the lifetime of the project, and connection cost It is assumed a
cost per connection of US$ 150 per connection.. The coverage is increased until capacity permits.
- 34 -



Table 4 - Project Investment Costs
(EC$ 000)   (US$ 000)
1. Strengthening of the Sector Regulatory Framework3                 1,350         500
2. TA to strengthen WASCO human resources and intemal systems        1,620         600
3. TA to carry out studies and support PSP transaction               2,160         800
4. Urgently needed investments and asset rehabilitation
Water Investment
Ciceron Supply    7,285       2,698
Ciceron Distribution  2,136        791
Hill 20 Distribution  1,370       507
Vieux Fort Distribution  590         219
Subtotal Water    11,381      4,215
Sewerage
Castries Outfall    160         59
Rodney Bay      60           23
Subtotal Sewerage   220           81
Subtotal Water and sewerage    11,601    4,296
5. Project management and public information and dissemination campaign  1,620     600
Total Project Costs                                                  18,351       6,797
Table 5 - Complementary Investment Costs
(EC$ 000)    (US$ 000)
Water Investnent
Hill 20 supply    1,305       483
Vieux Fort Supply    4,065       1,505
Transmission System 20" pipeline from Port Castries to Choc Estate    10,000  3,704
Metering and Leak Detection    2,583      957
Subtotal Water    17,953      6,649
Sewerage
Castries Pump Station Upgrades    1,245      461
Total Project Costs                                                  19,198       7,110
Unaccounted for water remains at its current value of 55% in the "without" project scenario, and decreases
to 45% in the "with" project scenario, due to a 5% reduction in the physical losses and 5% reduction in
commercial losses.
Operation and maintenance (O&M) costs include the cost of labor, chemicals, power, maintenance, and
general costs. O&M for the "without" project scenario are based on current unit costs, including the
required maintenance to keep constant the current coverage level. O&M costs estimated for the "with"
project scenario were calculated by examining the expected impact of the proposed project. Labor cost was
calculated as the number of employees per 1,000 water and sewerage connections (labor productivity)
multiplied by the number of connections and the average cost per employee. In the "without" project
scenario, labor productivity was kept constant. In the "with" project scenario, labor productivity and the
number of connections increased in accordance with the project's targets. Social contributions, including
labor related taxes, were assumed at 30% of nominal salaries Social contributions include: National
Insurance (5%), PAY taxes (13%), and other deductions of 12%, 50% of the social contribution does not
return to workers and is treated as a tax in the evaluation. The cost of chemicals and electricity were
calculated based on their unit cost and on projected volumes of water produced and of sewage collected and
treated. Maintenance and general costs were calculated as percentages of the sum of labor, chemicals and
electricity costs.
Notes: TA costs for regulatory sector and for PSP are not considered in the financial analysis but in
economic analysis since it is a cost for the Government and not for the operator. Taxes include a service
- 35 -



charge on goods of 4 %, and 1.5% environmental levy, on both investment and operating costs (excluding
labor costs); Subsidies: There is no subsidy on operating costs.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Sensitivity analysis. The sensitivity analysis shows that the project is robust.The variables identified as
conveying major risk to the project are presented in table 6.
Table 6 - Risk Variables and Their Impact and Risk Significance
Investment cost overrun      Direct impact on investment costs. Largely under management control. Conveys a
low risk to the financial and economic results. They could be higher in 100% and
the project will still have positive returns
Operating costs overrun      Direct impact on operating costs. Largely under management control. Conveys a.
medium risk to the financial and economic results. If operating costs overruns more
than 48% in the north and 29% in the south, the project would have a negative
financial NPV.
Consumption per capita       Direct impact on financial benefits. Based on consumer's decision and hence
beyond management control. Conveys a moderate risk to the project. It has to
decrease at least in 40% to make financial NPV negative.
Revenue Collection rate      Direct impact on financial benefits. Largely under management control. It has
moderate risk to the project. It has to remain at the current level in the south and
decrease to 57% in the north to make financial NPV negative.
Marginal cost                Direct impact on economic benefit. Conveys a moderate risk to the project. It has
to be lower than US$ 0.48/m3 in the south and lower to US$ 0.37/m3 in the north to
make economic NPV negative
Unaccounted for water        Direct impact on benefits and operating costs. Conveys a low risk to the project. It
has to be higher than its current values to make the net benefit of the project
l _____________________________  negative
Risk Analysis. To enhance the accuracy of the financial and economic analysis, we approximated the
dynamic and uncertainties of the real world through the use of Monte Carlo simulations using the Crystal
B3all software. This software measures the extend of various risks and their effect on the project, modeling a
probable distribution for each risk variable and the resulting outcome. Based on a simulation of 1,000
trials, the model recalculates the results of the financial and economic analyses by simultaneously changing
each of the selected variables. The assumed distribution of probabilities and their respective specifications
for each variable are presented in table 6.
- 36 -



Table 7 - Risk Variables and Their Distribution of Probabilities
Investnent cost overrun     Triangular distribution. Minimum value: -10%, likeliest: 0%, and Maximum value:
20%
Operatng costs overrun      Triangular distribution. Minimum value: -10%, likeliest: 0%, and Maximum value:
20%
Changes in Consumption per    Normal distribution. Mean 0, standard deviation 1O%
capita
Revenue Collection rate     Custom distribution. Between 90% 100% of its assumed values: 50% probability
Between 80% and 90%: 30% probability
Between 70% and 80%:
Marginal cost               Custom. from 5 EC$/m3 to EC$ 4.5/m3: 50%,
From 4.5 EC$/m3 to 4.0 EC$/m3 30%
From 4 EC$/m3 to 3.5 EC$/m3 20%
Unaccounted for water       Normal distribution for changes on assumed values. Mean 0 standard deviation
10%
As seen in Table 7, which summarizes the result of the risk analysis, the risk assessment of the financial
analysis confirms the robustness of the project. The risk assessment of the financial analysis shows that the
likelihood of a negative financial output in the project is almost non-existent. With a 99% probability the
project will have positive financial NPV. When the project is looked up separately the likelihood of a
positive value in the south is 77%, and in the north is 92%. The risk assessment of the economic analysis is
highly reassuring. Once market distortions are eliminated the likelihood of a negative economic output is
almost non-existent in the whole project, there is just a 5% probability to have a negative output. The
probability in the north to have positive output is 100%, and the south is 65%.
Table 8 - Financial and Economic Risk Assessment (US$ 000)
Financial Results            Economic Results
South
Probability of NPV               77%                           65%
Mean Expected NPV (EC$ 000)                 4,265                         2,068
North
Probability of NPV               92%                           100%
Mean Expected NPV (EC$ 000)                 16,423                       66,419
Total Project
Probability of NPV               99%                           95%
Mean Expected NPV (EC$ 000)                 19,796                        67,482
- 37 -



Attachment to Annex 4: Tariff Analysis
Tariff Structure
There are five tariff categories: domestic, commercial, hotel, government, and ships. For metered
customers, there are three charges: (i) volumetric charge, (ii) minimum monthly charge, and (iii)
connection fee. The volumetric charge is based on a system of increasing block tariffs for domestic
customers, and a single tariff for non-domestic customers. The number of blocks for domestic consumers
is two: less than 3000 gallons per month, and more than 3000 gallons per month (See table 1). The
minimum charge consists of a fixed amount charged when the consumption is less than 2000 gallons per
month to domestic customers, and 1000 gallons per month to non-domestic connections. The connec lion
4fee is charged once the connection is plugged in the service and consists of a network cost, meter, and other
costs related to the connection.
Table 1 - WASCO - Current Tariffs for Water and Sewerage Services - Metered Customers - As of
December 2000
Metered customers             EC$/1000 gal      US$/m3'
Water Service
Domestic2
Less 3000 Gallons   7.35             0.60
More 3000 gallons   15.00            1.22
Commercial                       20.00            1.63
Hotel                            22.00            1.79
Government                       14.00            1.14
Ships                            40.00            3.26
Sewerage Service
Domestic
Less 3000 Gallons   5.45             0.44
More 3000 gallons   10.35            0.84
Commercial                       13.70            1.12
Hotel                            14.60            1.19
Government                       8.50             0.69
The equivalence in US$ and m 3was done assuming an exchange rate of EC$2.7/US$ and one gal equals to
4.55 It.
The block tariffs expressed in m' equal to: (i) first block, for consumption less than 14 m3; (ii) second
block, consumption greater than 14m
For non-metered customers there are two charges: (i) a fixed monthly charge, (ii) a connection fee. The
fixed charge is based on the number of people who live in the house for domestic customers. The
connection fee is the same that applies to metered customers (Table 2).
- 38 -



Table 2 - WASCO - Current Tariffs for Water and Sewerage Services
Non Metered Customers - December 2000
EC$/conn/month US$/conn/month
Water service3
Domestic
I person     14.70             5.44
2 person      18.37            6.80
3 person     22.05             8.17
4 person      52.05            19.28
5 person     67.05             24.83
6 person     82.05             30.39
7 person     97.05             35.94
8 person     112.05            41.50
9 person     127.05            47.06
10 person     142.05            52.61
11 person     187.05            69.28
Historical Tariffs
The tariffs have remained unchanged on nominal terms in the last years, which means a decrease in real
terrns when inflationary correction is taken into account. From 1995 through 1999 the accumulated
inflation rate was 13.7%.
The current water tariffs are effective since January 1, 2000, when there was an increase from 79% in the
first block for domestic customers to 119% for the Government entities (table 3). The average increase in
the bills was not so high for customers, since there was a monthly service charge of EC$ 5/connection for
domestic customer and EC$ 10 for non domestic, which was eliminated. The sewerage tariffs remained the
same. The net effect to WASCO's revenue was 50% increase.
Sewerage is not billed for non-metered customers.
- 39 -



Table 3 - Tariff Increased in January 2000, EC$
Metered customers              Before January 2000 After January 2000   Increase (%)
Water Service
Domestic4
Service charge (EC$/conn-month)       5                  0              (100%)
Less 3000 Gallons(EC$/1000 gal)     4.10               7.35              79%
More 3000 gallons(EC$/1000 gal)     7.78               15.00             93%
Non domestic:
Service charge (EC$/conn-month)      10                  0              (100%)
Commercial (EC/lOOOgal)       10.24              20.00             95%
Hotel (EC$/I000 gal)     11.00              22.00             100%
Govemment (EC$/1000 gal)        6.40               14.00            110%
Ships (EC$/I 000 gal)    40.00              40.00              0%
Sewerage Service
Domestic
Less 3000 Gallons      5.45                5.45.            0%
More 3000 gallons      10.35              10.35              0%
Commercial                            13.70              13.70             0%
Hotel                                 14.60              14.60             0%
Government                            8.50               8.50              0%
The average tariff is US$ 1.09/m3 . There is a high cross subsidy between sectors, the hotels are
overcharged 75%, while domestic have a 25% subsidy (Table 4)
Table 4 - Average Tariff Water and Sewerage 2000
EC$/1000 gallon            US$/m3
Domestic                                       10.13                   0.82
Commercial Government and industrial           18.11                   1.47
Hotels                                         23.46                   1.91
Ships and boats                                40.00                   3.26
Total                                          13A3                    1.09
Billing
Consumption Billed. WASCO has 87% of connections with meters, from which 63% are working and
their consumption is read; for the remaining 37% WASCO keeps a record of previous consumption and
this is the consumption billed.
Domestic are the biggest clients with 70% of total consumption, hotel consumption accounts for 13%, and
other sectors for 17%
The block tariffs expressed in m  equal to: less than 14 m  and more than 14 m .
- 40 -



Table 5 - Volume of Consumption Billed
Volume billed per year                             20005
(million gallons)
Domestic       1692               70%
Commercial Government and industrial    372                15%
Hotels       312                13%
Ships and boats      27                 1%
Total volume billed     2403               2537
Revenues Billed and Collected
The collection rate is in average 65%. Hotels have the highest collection rate of 91%, while domestic,
comercial an industrial the lowest of 56% (table 6)
Table 6 - Billed and Collected Revenues 2000, (Thousands EC$)
Water and Sewerage                     Billed            CoUected        Cot/Billed
(In thousand EC$)
Domestic                               17143               9566             56%
Commercial, industrial                  3978               2219            56%
Government                              2764               1542             56%
Hotels                                  7317               6622            91%
Ships and boats                         1068                867            81%
Total Revenues                         32269               20816            65%
The block tariffs expressed in m' equal to: less than 14 min, and more than 14 m .
- 41 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ST. LUCIA: Water Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project
Years Ending
2006 (FY)
in US$ million
| Year I  I Year 2  | Year 3    Year 4  | Year 5       Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           0.4        3.5       3.7        0.5       0.2        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          0.4        3.5       3.7        0.5       0.2        0.0       0.0
Interest during   0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
construction
Front-end fee    0.0        0.1        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Financing              0.4        3.6       3.7        0.5       0.2        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  0.1        0.7        1.1       0.5        0.2       (.0       0.0
Government                0.2        0.4        0.6       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers: CDB        0.1        2.5        2.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing     0.4        3.6       3.7        0.5       0.2       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 42 -



Annex 5: Financial Assessment of Revenue Earning Entities
ST. LUCIA: Technical Assistance Water Sector Reform Project
Water and Sewerage Company Inc. (WASCO)
Financial analysis was carried out to assess the historical and current financial situation of WASCO, the
public water company of St. Lucia, and to project its future financial situation under with and without
private sector participation scenarios. Since the Government of St. Lucia is the Borrower, and WASCO
will not be responsible to repay the IBRD or CDB loan, our analysis focused on the general financial health
of the company, and its attractiveness to potential private operators/investors.
1. Historical and Current Performance
We analyzed WASCO's historical and current financial perfonnance based on audited financial statements
(from 1995 to October 1999), estimated financial statements (from November 1999 to December 2000),
and other complementary information provided by WASCO's financial and commercial departments.
Historical Performance (1995-1999): Before 1999, WASA, WASCO's predecessor before it changed
name in 1999, was financially nonviable with operating revenue much less than operating cost. Despite the
repeated efforts to improve its operational efficiency through various institutional development programs,
technical assistance, and even twinning arrangements, no sustainable results were obtained. The prolonged
period of insufficient tariff adjustments exacerbated the situation. WASA's finances had been
characterized by insufficient revenue, high operating cost, and low collection rates, which resulted in
chronic cash shortage. The resulting under-maintenance and under-investments left the company's assets in
precarious condition. In order to make minimum investments, WASA took on long-term loans from the
Caribbean Development Bank, the World Bank (IBRD and IDA), and other foreign and local Banks.
By the end of 1999, WASA was highly indebted with long-terrn debt to equity ratio of 10:1, and its debt
service payments accounted for 42% of operating revenue. Selected key operational and financial
indicators area presented in Table 1.
Table 1. St. Lucia Water and Sewerage Company Inc.
Selected Financial Indicators (1995-2000)
1995   1996  1997  1998  1999  2000
Working Ratio (operating cost excluding             100%   125%  115%  85%   91%   53%
depreciation/operating revenue)
Operating ratio (operating cost including           128%   162%  160%  130%  136%   83%
depreciation/operating revenue)
Bad debts to revenues                                18%    1 %    8%    10%   200/o   5%
Days of accounts receivables                         226    236   213   225   269   115
Percentage of investment financed by own resources  46%    0%    0%   100%   0%   100%
Personnel cost to operating cost                    45%    46%   46%   52%   34%   42%
Long term debt' to equity ratio                      1.7   2.4   3.9   7.1   10.0   2.6
Total debt to equity ratio                           4.0    5.6   9.1   16.9  24.5   6.1
Debt service coverage                                3.0   -0.6  -0.6   0.6   -0.3   1.3
Current ratio                                        0.5    0.4   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4
Revenue collection rate                             64%    63%   63%   62%   65%   65%
Debt service/Revenue                                21%    27%   25%   41%   42%   31%
I   Long tenn debt does not include deferred capital assistance
- 43 -



Table 2. St. Lucia - Water and Sewerage Company Inc (WASCO)
Summary Financial Statements
(Thousand EC$) (1995-2000)
1995       1996       1997      1998       1999       2000
Income Statement
Operating Revenue                              18,615      17,476     19,337    20,613     20,392     32,809
Operating income                                (57)       (4,342)   (2,817)    3,117      1,785      15,514
Net income                                     (12,640)    (12,691)  (12,762)  (11,250)   (20,330)     523
1995       1996       1997      199S       1999       2000
Balance Sheet
Net fixed assets                               217,836    217,938   210,357   202,323    195,533    190,956
Current assets                                 14,296      13,107    12,893    13,916      17,716     13,398
Total assets                                   232,132    231,045   223,250   216,239    213,249    204,354
Total equity                                   46,123      34,790    22,146    12,076      8,353      28,875
LT debt                                        155,192     162,570   161,716   156,436    151,879    126,861
Total liabilities                              186,010     196,255   201,103   204,163    204,896    175,478
Total liabilities and equity                   232,132    231,045   223,249   216,239    213,248    204,354
1995       1996       1997      1998       1999       2000
Cash Flow Statement
Internal Sources                               11,679      (2,628)   (2,970)    4,801     (2,291)     12,860
Borrowing                                      11,022      7,873      7,746     (895)      17,931     8,500
New Equity                                      1,420       1,358      118      1,183      8,223      20,000
Deferred Capital Assistance                       0        2,205        0        (0)      (7,315)       0
Other                                             0         710        739     (2,879)      469       (2,758)
Total Sources                                  24,121      9,518      5,633     2,210      17,017     38,602
Investments                                    25,634      6,545      1,153     1,198      2,426      5,200
Debt service                                    3,902      4,669      4,817     8,443      8,465      10,208
Other                                             0          0          0         0          0        19,919
Total Applications                             29,535      11,214     5,970     9,641      10,891     35,327
Change in cash                                 (5,415)     (1,696)    (336)    (7,431)     6,126      3,275
Current Performance (1999-2000). In 1999, under the newly appointed Board of Directors comprising
predominantly private sector representatives, WASA changed its name to 'WASCO'. The new
management team of WASCO, together with the Government, quickly took several actions that improved
WASCO's financial performance. These included: (i) a major tariff increase in January 2000, which
resulted in 50% increase in revenue; (ii) introduction of tariff discounts to customers who pay in time; (iii)
reduction of staff by 27% (94 employees); and (iv) writing off of irrecoverable bad debts.
Although these actions improved WASCO's financial situation, WASCO remained insolvent as of the end
of 2000, with EC$50 million debts in "arrears" that it owed to the Government, representing debt service
(interest and principal) paid by the government on behalf of WASA in the past. EC$ 40.7 million of these
debts were assigned to Royal Merchant Bank of Trinidad & Tobago (RMBTT) for collection. In addition,
the "current" long term debt (not in arrears) stood at EC$ 63.5 million, of which 40% was with the
Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) (Table 3). If WASCO were to service all these debts, its financial
capacity to invest in the deteriorating assets would be limited. During a joint CDB-World Bank
preparation mission, it was agreed therefore that GoSL would assume a part of these debts, and refinance
others. The GoSL' s financial relief package to be implemented during 2000-2002 includes the following:
*    GoSL will forgive EC$40.7 million debt assigned for collection to RMBTT (already accounted for in
December 2000).
*    GoSL will not require WASCO to service the EC$ 3.8 million debt with CDB for the construction of
Ciceron storage tank (to be accounted for in 2001).
*    GoSL will not require WASCO to service the EC$ 12.6 million French Loan for a 20 inch pipeline, but
will require WASCO to repay the GoSL for the corresponding amount, with 5% annual interest and 6
- 44 -



years of payment period (to be accounted for in 2001).
*    GoSL will contribute EC$ 5.6 million for severance payments (already accounted for in 2000).
2. Financial Projection of WASCO with and without Private Sector Participation
Based on the past financial performance, we made financial projections for WASCO under several
scenarios: three with private sector participation and one without private sector participation, i.e., "business
as usual". Under all scenarios, we assumed that the financial relief package the GoSL promised will
materialize.
The main assumptions for the scenarios are summarized in Table 3 below.
Table 3. Main Assumptions for financial project without and with PSP
WASCO without PSP - "business as usual"                             WASCO with PSP
Exchange rate           Remains at current value of EC$ 2.7/iUSS          Same
Inflation rate          3% per year                                       Same
Revenue collection rate   Remains at its current value of 65% per year    Gradually increases to 91%
Days in account         128 days                                          Gradually decreases to 55 days
receivable
Service Coverage:
Water coverage  Increases from 69% to 76%                          Increases to 83%
Sewerage coverage   Increases from 10% to 12%                         Increases to 50%
Unaccounted for water   From 49% decreases to 45%                         Gradually decreases to 30%
Days in accounts        Remain at 280 days                                Gradually decreases to 60 days
payable
Canon                   None                                              14% of revenues under Scenario C l, none under other scenarios
Tariffs                 Remains at its current levels                     Same
Operating Cost          Unitary costs remain at current levels.           Same
PSP                     None                                              Starts at the beginning 2004
Starting Capital        N/A                                               EC$ 13 million
Management fee          None                                              It is assumed to be paid to the new management team equal to 5%
of operating cost
Regulatory fee          None                                              2% of revenues.
Taxes                   33% of income before taxes                        Same
Long-term debt          Reduced in 2000, 2001, and 2002, according to what  Same financial relief package for 2000, 2001, and 2002.
GoSL proposed, New long term debt corresponds to   Scenario A: Concessionaire assumes 100% of WASCO debts.
the part of investment and debt service that is not  Scenario B: Concessionaire assumes 65% of WASCO debts.
covered by cash from operations and capital       Scenario C: Concessionaire assumes none of WASCO debts.
contributions.                                    Scenario Cl: Concessionaire assumes none of WASCO debts, but
will pay canon to GoSL.
Capital contribution    Capital contribution of EC$20 million in 2000 and  EC$ 13 million in 2004 and EC$ 8 million in 2005 by private
EC$ 13.6 million in 200 1by GoSL.                 investor/operator.
Short term debt         Issued annually in an amount equal to the shortage    Same
of liquidity if any.
Investment              Minimum. Basic rehabilitation and other ongoing   Per capita investments: water connection US$ 400 and sewerage
investments.                                      connection USS 600. In addition, rehabilitation investment of 2%
total operating assets.
Dividend pay-out        None                                              Includes a minimum dividend, except in three circumstances when
policy                                                                    no dividend is paid: (i) in years of capital injections; (ii) when net
income is negative, and (iii) when cash flows after debt servicing
are negative. If cash flows lead to an excess of liquidity, the
surplus is entirely distributed in additional dividends
Terminal value         N/A                                                Assumed to be zero for conservative assumptions.
- 45 -



2.1 WASCO without PSP
Under the "business as usual" scenario, which assumes some efficiency gains, even with the Government's
rescue package and increased tariff revenue, WASCO would go back to being insolvent in a few years,
with debt service coverage falling below one in year 2001.
Table 4. Projected Operational and Financial Indicators without PSP
2000  2001  2002  2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008
Operational Indicators
i) Working ratio (operating cost excluding         53%   55%   55%   56%    55%    55%    55%    55%    55%
depreciation/revenue);
ii) Operating ratio (operating cost including      83%   83%   83%   83%    81%    80%    79%    78%    78%
depreciation/revenue);
iii) Bad customer debts to revenues                 5%    5%    5%    5%      5%      5%      5%     5%      5%
iv) Days of accounts receivables                    115   127   128   128    128    128    128    128    128
v) % of investment financed by own resources       100%   84%   700/o  94%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%
vi) Personnel cost to operating cost               42%   42%  42%   42%    42%    42%    42%    42%    43%
vii) Unaccounted for water                         49%   49%  48%   48%    46%    46%    46%    46%    45%
Financial Indicators
i) Long term debt to equity ratio                   2.2   1.9  2.0   2.2    2.0    1.8    1.7    1.6    1.5
ii) Total debt to equity ratio                      6.1   4.1   4.2   4.2    4.1    3.9       3.7    3.4    3.2
iii) Debt service coverage                          1.3   0.2   1.2     1     0.8    0.7      0.6    0.6    0.6
iv) Current ratio                                   0.3   0.7   0.5   0.6    0.6    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.6
v) Revenue collection rate                         65%   65%   65%   65%    65%    65%    65%    66%    66%
vi) Debt service/Revenue                           31%   39% /  32%   50%    50%    60%    67%    63%    66%
Table 5. WASCO's Financial Projections without PSP
(Thousand EC$)
2000      2001     2002     2003      2004     2005     2006      2007     2008
Income statement items
Total revenues                 32,809    33,957   35,048   36,198   37,906   38,662   39,432   40,216   40,598
Operating income                15,514    15,257   15,621   16,085   17,206   17,525   17,870   18,214    18,193
Net income                       523      (1,452)    508      439      655      789      1,149    1,506     1,601
2000      2001     2002     2003      2004     2005     2006      2007     2008
Main balance sheet items
Net fixed assets               190,956   191,330  201,139  201,787  199,204  194,774  190,505  186,394  181,582
Current assets                 13,398    14,671   15,332   15,893   16,553   16,844   17,128   17,419    17,567
Total assets                   204,354   206,001  216,471  217,680  215,757  211,618  207,633  203,813  199,148
Total equity                   28,875    40,783   41,291   41,729   42,385   43,174   44,323   45,829   47,430
LT debt                        126,861   143,923  146,635  150,631  143,772  135,222  130,722  124,011   119,801
Total liabilities              175,478   165,218  175,181  175,951  173,372  168,444  163,310  157,984  151,718
Total liabilities and equity   204,354   206,001  216,472  217,680  215,757  211,618  207,633  203,813   199,148
2000      2001     2002      2003     2004     2005     2006      2007     2008
Cash Flow
Internal Sources               12,860     8,292    13,478   10,044   14,665   15,211   15,336   15,470    15,533
Borrowing                       8,500     20,308   16,499   18,053   11,171   12,821   15,968   14,863    15,019
New Equity                     20,000    13,360      0         0.       0        0         0        0         0
Deferred Capital Assistance       0       3,600      0         0        0        0        0         0         0
Others                         (2,758)     554      569       584      603      619       635      652       667
Total Sources                  38,602    46,113   30,547   28,681   26,439   28,651   31,940   30,984    31,220
Investments                     5,200     9,921    19,376   10,705    7,506    5,530    5,470    5,414    4,507
Debt service                   10,208    34,317   11,111   17,920   18,884   23,085   26,435   25,534   26,679
Other                          19,919       0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0
Total Applications             35,327    44,239   30,487   28,624   26,391   28,615   31,905   30,948   31,187
Change incash                   3,275     1,875      60       56       48        36       35        36       33
- 46 -



2.2. WASCO with PSP
With the help of the Project, we expect that WASCO would be concessioned to a private operator by 2004.
In addition to preparing the financial projections and determiining the financial health of WASCO under
private operation, therefore, we also conducted an analysis of the financial viability of concession from the
point of view of potential investors.
Can WASCO be Attractive to Private Operators/Investors?
WASCO concession can be quite attractive to the potential operators/investors. The tariff level has been
corrected recently, and there is an ample scope for efficiency gains. As shown in Table 6 below, the value
of business -- NPV of free cashflow from operations -- can be as high as EC$72 million, with a rate of
return of up to 175% in real terms. The successful award of the concession, however, depends highly on
what happens to WASCO's outstanding debts, which is expected to be about EC$90 million at the time of
concession award.
As shown in Table 6 below, if all the outstanding debts were to be transferred to the concessionaire
(Scenario A), then it is highly unlikely that the concession would attract any investors. The rate of return
on invested capital under this scenario is 7%, much lower than the expected return of about 15-16% from
this kind of projects. On the other hand, if GoSL were to assume all the debts (Scenario C), then that
would give the concessionaire a handsome return of 27%, but will leave GoSL with the same old problem
of servicing the water company's old debts. The best option may be to assign a part of the debt service
obligation to the concessionaire (Scenario B), to the extent that the concessionaire eamns a reasonable rate
of retum, assumed here at 16%. Yet another option may be for the GoSL to assume all the debts, but the
concessionaire will pay an annual canon (licensing fee) to the GoSL (Scenario C-i), which the GoSL can
use to service at least a part of the debts, though this may cause some mismatch of cashflows between the
annual canon payments and the debt service. Either way, a competitive process of the concession award
can determine the amount of debt to be assumed by the concessionaire (Scenario B) or the canon payments
to be made by the concessionaire (Scenario C-1).
Table 6. Return on operations and return on invested capital under different scenarios
Scenarios                               Free cashflow from operations        Returns to investors
NPV (EC$      Rate of return   NPV (EC$       Rate of return
million)                       million) "      on invested
capital
A. Concessionaire assumes 100% WASCO        71.9            175%            4.2              7%
debt                                 ___
B. Concessionaire assumes 65% WASCO         71.9            175%            3.6             16%
debt i2
C. Concessionaire assumes none of           71.9           175%             14.7            27%
WASCO debt.
C-l. Concessionaire assumes none of         39.1            60%             3.4             16%4
WASCO debt but pays canon of about 14%
of revenue to GoSL /3
D. No PSP                                   53.6            n.a.            N/A             N/A
n.a Not available. N/A Not applicable
1/ NPV dividend-NPV equity input
2/ If concessionaire assumes 65% of debt, then they can cam 16% on invested capital.
3/If concessionaire pays 14% of revenue as canon, then they can expect to eam 16% on invested capital.
4/ 16% is based on our assumptions about various risks: US risk free rate 6%; Country risk premiumn of St. Lucia 3%; beta for water sector
1; market risk premium 6%; regulatory and other St. Lucia related risk premium 1%.
-47 -



Fiscal Impact
We analyzed the net fiscal impact to GoSL under the most likely scenarios B and Cl, where the
Concessionaire will be sharing the debt service, either through servicing the debts directly or through canon
payments. The net fiscal gains to the GoSL under the two scenarios are similar, at about EC$6 million. In
comparison, if WASCO stays in the public hands without reform, then the net fiscal loss to the GoSL
would be about EC$43.7 million. The difference between the two of about EC$50 million would be the net
fiscal impact of PSP of WASCO.
Table 7. Fiscal Impact to GoSL under Different Scenarios (EC$ million)
Net Present Value ofFlows (EC$ million)
Scenarios               Inflows                              Outflows                        Net
Income   Canon   Total            Debt Service         | Subsidy    Total    Impact
Taxes                    Principal  Interest    Total
B. Concessionaire    34.0       0      34.0     19.6       8.1       27.6      0        27.6       6.4
assumes 65%
WASCO debt                                        _     _                                       __
C L. Concessionaire  36.3     48.1    84.4      56.0       22.8      78.8      0        78.8       5.6
assumes no WASCO
debt but pays a canon                                                                           __
D. No PSP            13.1       0      13.1       0         0         0       56.8      56.8   _ (43.7)
Net fiscal Benefit of                                                                           49.3-50.1
PSP (D-B and D-CI) I)        _        _                  l                                      _
- 48 -



Financial Projections
Under the most likely Scenario B, WASCO, with private sector participation, would be able achieve
substantial efficiency gains, that would enable them to invest on average EC$ 14 million per year, as
compared with EC$ 5 million, under the "business as usual" scenario.
Table 8. Projected Operational and Financial Indicators under PSP
2000 1 2001 1 2002  2003   2004    2005  1 2006 1 2007   2008
Before PSP                        After PSP
Operational Indicators
i) Working ratio (operating cost excluding            53%   55%   55%   56%    57%        52%     50%    47%    47%
depreciation/operating revenue)
ii) Operating ratio (operating cost including         83%   83%   83%   83%    59%        54%     54%    51%    52%
depreciation/operating revenue)
iii) Days of accounts receivables                     115    127   128   128    106        90      62      55      55
iv) Bad customer debts to revenues                    5%    5%    5%    5%        3%      2%       1%      I %    1 %
v) % of investment financed by own resources         100%   84%   70%   94%       9%      19%     71%    900/o  100%
vi) Personnel cost to operating cost                  42%   42%   42%   42%    38%        37%     37%    36%    36%
vii) Unaccounted for water                           49%   490/o  48%   48%/o   42%       41%     37%    31%    30%
Financial Indicators
i) Long term debt to equity ratio                     2.2    1.9   2.0   2.2    0.3        0.4     0.5    0.4    0.3
ii) Total debt to equity ratio                        6.1   4.1   4.2    4.2    1.1        0.9     0.9    0.7    0.5
iii) Debt service coverage                             1.3   0.2   1.2      1     3.8      3.1     3.2    2.4    2.8
iv) Current ratio                                     0.3   0.7   0.5   0.6    1.3         1.4     1.4    1.7    1.5
v) Revenue collection rate                            65%   65%   65%   65%    71%        75%     83%    91%    91%
vi) Debt service/Revenue                              31%   39%   32%   50%       1 %      3%      5%      8%     10%
- 49 -



2.3.      Conclusions
WASCO's main problem is the high level of debt that it has accumulated over the years, in addition to its
low level of operational efficiency. If WASCO continues as "business as usual" with only modest
efficiency gains, we project that the GoSL would need to assume an additional EC$44 worth of debt
service between years 2000-2021. We concluded furthermore that if the future concessionaire were to
assume all outstanding debt service obligation of WASCO, the concession is not financially viable,, and
therefore will not attract any bidders. The GoSL, may, therefore, structure the bidding process so that the
concessionaire may assume a part of WASCO debt, either by directly servicing a part of the debts, or by
making canon payments to the GoSL.
Table 9. WASCO's Financial Projections with PSP
(Thousand EC$)
2000   i2001        2002     2003      2004  1 2005  1 2006  2007             2008
Without PSP                                   With PSP
Income statement items
Total revenues                  32,809    33,957   35,048   36,198   40,010   46,142   50,133   56,306    58,341
Operating income                 15,514    15,257    15,621    16,085   17,311   22,041   24,867   29,607    30,921
Pre-tax income                    780      (1,452)    758       655     2,832    5,345    7,418    15,136    18,08)
Taxes                             257         0       250       216      935      1,764    2,448    4,995      5,969
Net income                        523      (1,452)    508       439      1,898    3,581    4,970    10,141    12,120]
2000      2001      2002     2003      2004      2005     2006      2007      2008
Main balance sheet items
Net fixed assets                190,956   191,330  201,139  201,787   16,278   34,889   45,348   55,877    63,951
Current assets                   13,398    14,671    15,332   15,893    15,021   15,051    14,450   14,571    12,961)
Total assets                    204,354   206,001  216,471  217,680   31,300   49,940   59,798   70,448    76,912
Total equity                     28,875    40,783   41,291   41,729    14,898   26,479   31,449   41,590    51,610)
LT debt                         126,861   143,923  146,635  150,631   4,813    12,845    18,235   20,038    16,373.
Total liabilities               175,478   165,218  175,181   175,951   16,402   23,461    28,349   28,858    25,302
Total liabilities and equity    204,354   206,001  216,472  217,680   31,300   49,940   59,798   70,448    76,912
2000      2001      2002     2003      2004      2005     2006      2007      2008
Cash Flow
Intemal Sources                  12,860     8,292    13,478   10,044    1,609    3,618    8,713    11,489    15,953
Borrowing                        8,500     20,308    16,499   18,053    4,208    8,459    7,728    5,484         0
New Equity                      20,000    13,360       0         0      13,000    8,000       0         0         0
Deferred Capital Assistance        0        3,600      0         0        0         0         0        0         0
Others                          (2,758)     554       569       584      605       625      646       674       690
Total Sources                   38,602    46,113   30,547   28,681    19,421   20,701    17,087   17,647    16,646
Investments                      5,200      9,921    19,376   10,705    17,135   19,425    12,204   12,796    10,868
Debt service                     10,208    34,317    11,111    17,920    421      1,162    2,688    4,733      5,668
Other                            19,919       0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0
Total Applications              35,327    44,239   30,487   28,624   17,556   20,586    14,891   17,529    16,536
Change in cash                   3,275      1,875      60       56       1,866     115      2,196      118       110
- 50 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ST. LUCIA: Water Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project
Procurement
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published in
January 1997 (revised in September 1999 and January 1999), and "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published January 1995, (revised January and August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999), and the provisions stipulated in the Credit and Loan
agreements. The PMU will carry out the procurement actions under the project, based on the
procurement procedures agreed upon in the Project documents and the Operations Manual.
Procurement methods (Table A)
The methods to be used for the procurement described below, and the estimated amounts for each
method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for the use of each method are
fixed in Table B.
A. Selection of Consultants
Consulting services will be contracted under this project in the following areas of expertise: utility
regulation, environmental impact assessment, water and wastewater engineering, financial analysis,
legal advice, investment banking, public relations and financial audits.
Firms. Contracts for firms would be procured using QCBS (up to an aggregate amount of
US$1,390,000 equivalent) except: a) the regulatory framework study (part of component 1) will be
procured under selection under fixed budget (SFB) modality and b) the external auditors will be
selected under least cost selection (LCS) modality. Services (for training services) estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract will be procured under the selection based on
consultants' qualifications (CQ) up to an aggregate value of $200,000.
Individuals. Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants (including
the project coordinator) selected by comparison of qualifications of three candidates and hired in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to
an aggregate amount of $550,000.
Prior review thresholds. All consultancies estimated to cost over $25,000 will be subject to prior
review. In addition to this prior review of individual procurement actions, the plan and budget for
the PMU operating costs will be reviewed and approved by the Bank annually.
B. Goods
Goods estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent per contract or less (up to an aggregate amount of
$50,000) will be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. With respect to the
first contract to be procured in accordance with the shopping procedure, the following shall apply:
(i) prior of the selection of the supplier, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the
- 51 -



comparison and evaluation of quotations received; (ii) prior to the execution of the contract, the
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and (iii) the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines will apply. In
the case of the following contracts, the post review procedures in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines will apply.
C. Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement
Procurement activities will be carried out by the Project Management Unit (PMU) in close
coordination with the Ministry of Planning, Environment and Housing. The PMU is satisfactorily
staffed by a Project Coordinator (identified but not hired), an administrative assistant, an
accountant and an engineer (also procurement officer). Except from the PC, all staff are seconded
from WASCO, whose salaries and operating costs are included as Government counterpart. The
Operations Manual will include, in addition to the procurement procedures, the Standard B:(iding
Documents to be used for each procurement method.
An assessment of the capacity of the PMU to implement procurement actions for the project has
been carried out and was submitted to the Regional Procurement Advisor on June 20, 2001, The
assessment reviewed the organizational structure of the proposed PMU and the interaction between
the project's procurement officer and the Ministry's Central Unit for Administration and Finance.
Most of the issues concerning the PMU have been or are being addressed, and corrective measures
are being implemented under another Bank-supported project that is also managed by this Unit.
The risks identified in the assessment include: (i) the possibility of interference from inexperienced
procurement staff in procurement management; (ii) unrealistic procurement planning; and (ii:i) the
need to improve procurement filing in the Central Unit and to develop a contract monitoring system
The PMU has already presented a detailed plan to address these risks. It involves: (i) promoting a
training program for the less experienced staff; (ii) discussing the procurement plan with the Bank,
creating a monitoring system and maintaining control of the procurement actions by using such
monitoring system; and (iii) hiring one consultant to design and help implement the new filing
system.
Monitoring of procurement actions and evaluation of contracts awarded under this project are key
activities envisaged in the action plan. Document filing is to improve after the new system is
implemented and is expected to comply with the Bank's requirements. The new system will specify
the procurement documents to be filed, the PMU staff who would have access to the files, arid the
internal security measures for record-keeping.
The overall project risk for procurement is high.
Although the overall risk assessment resulting from the PMU's capacity assessment was high, the
unit is putting in place a satisfactory system for filing, monitoring, and reporting procurement.
actions. The PMU would not be ineligible - for the time being - for PMR-based disbursements on
procurement reporting grounds. However, such situation should be re-assessed when the
procurement system is fully operational and found satisfactory.
- 52 -



D. Procurement Plan
At appraisal, the Borrower developed a procurement plan for project implementation which
provided the basis for the aggregate amounts for the procurement methods (per Table A). At the
beginning of each calendar year, the Borrower will update the Procurement Plan with a detailed
procurement schedule for the coming year. The procureimient plan is included in the Operational
Manual.
E. Frequency of Procurement Supervision
In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity
assessment of the PMU has recommended one full supervision mission every 6 months in the first
18 months of the project to visit the field to carry out post review of procurement actions. Based
on the overall risk assessment (High) the post-review field analysis should cover a sample of not
less than I in 5 contracts signed.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB          Other2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                             0.00            0.00           0.00         2.19         2.19
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00            0.00           0.05         2.18         2.23
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.05)        (0.00)      (0.05)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00           2.61         0.87         3.48
(0.00)          (0.00)        (2.26)        (0.00)      (2.26)
4. Unallocated                       0.00            0.00           0.28         0.00         0.28
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.28)        (0.00)      (0.28)
5. Interest during                   0.00            0.00           0.00         0.12         0.12
construction
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Front-end fee                     0.00            0.00           0.06         0.00         0.06
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.01)        (0.00)      (0.01)
Total                             0.00            0.00           3.00          5.36        8.36
(0.00)          (0.00)        (2.60)        (0.00)      (2.60)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan'Credit. All costs include
contingencies.
2/ Includes consulting services, procurement of office equipment, services of contracted staff of the project
management office, training, and technical assistance services.
- 53 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category   QCBS    QBS    SFB    LCS        CQ     Other   N.B.F.  Total Cost
A. Firms               1.39    0.00    0.30    0.10     0.20    0.00    0.87       2.86
(1.39)  (0.00)  (0.30)  (0.10)   (0.20)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (1.99)
B. Individuals         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.67    0.00       0.67
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.55)   (0.00)   (0.55)
Total  1.39    0.00    0.30    0.10      0.20    0.67    0.87      3.53
(1.39)  (0.00)  (0.30)  (0.10)   (0.20)  (0.55)   (0.00)   (2.54)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan/Credit.
- 54 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category          (US$)                   Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works
2. Goods                       < 20,000                Shopping               First contract
0.015
3. Services                                                                        All
Firms                    >=100,000                QCBS/SFB                    1.69
<=100,000                LCS/CQ                     0.30
Individuals                <50,000                                            0.55
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$2.36 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Financial Management and Disbursement
A. Financial Management Assessment
In accordance with Bank's policy OP/BP 10.02, the LCR Financial Management Unit (LCOAA)
reviewed the financial management arrangements relating to the project. The review focused on the
assessment of the internal control, planning, budgeting, accounting, and financial reporting system,
and audit arrangements. The review and related follow-up work concluded that, as of May 28, 2001,
significant progress had been made in readying the project to handle project funds. A Project
Accountant has been appointed, a financial procedures manual drafted, and accounting software
purchased.
B. Special Account and Funds Flow Mechanisms within the Program
It is expected that bank accounts will be established in accordance with procedures followed by other
projects in St. Lucia. It is anticipated that a US$ account will be established for loan funds (a Special
Account for Bank loan/credit funds and a similar account for CDB funds), with local accounts being
- 55 -



set up for EC$ payments financed by these loans. Therefore, most likely there will be four accounts in
all: two US dollar accounts and two local accounts (for local payments financed by the Bank, CDB).
This arrangement, along with the fact that the Bank and CDB are likely to finance different project
activities - i.e. the co-financing will be parallel - will help to facilitate project accounting and ensure
that there is an audit trail for project funds. The Special account would be set up in Bank of SI. Lucia
(or another commercial bank, subject to agreement with the Bank). The special account would have an
authorized allocation and initial advance of $ 100,000, increasing to a maximum of $200,000, if the
level of disbursements so justifies any such increase.
C. Funds Flow from the World Bank to the Program
Disbursements will initially be made via traditional Bank procedures, under which an agreed-upon
advance is first made to the Special Account, and subsequently this account is replenished via
withdrawal applications supported by full documentation or Statements of Expenditures (SOE;), as
required (see below). This is the simplest way to begin a project and will allow time for financial
reporting capacity to be developed. During the first year of the project, when disbursements are
expected to be relatively low, the project will begin to produce regular Project Management Reports
(PMRs). Once these reports are being produced quarterly, a decision can be made between the
government and the Bank as to whether disbursements will be made via PMRs rather than SO:Es. A
transition to PMR-based disbursements would allow the MLSS to place more of its energies irito
management reporting, instead of merely tracking transactions. Additionally, under PMR-base d
disbursements the Bank would permit a larger amount to be advanced to the Special Account than is
allowed under traditional disbursements.
D. Program Financial Management Personnel and Duties
A Project Accountant was selected prior to appraisal. This person will report to the Project
Coordinator, who will be required to approve many of the financial actions of the project. Additional
checks will be provided via the involvement of the Ministry of Finance in approving withdrawal
applications, controlling bank accounts, and in other areas. Project internal controls are explained in a
Financial Procedures manual which had been produced in draft form as of the appraisal date.
E. Accounting System and Procedures
The project will use an inexpensive, flexible off-the-shelf accounting software package to maintain the
project accounts. The software, used successfully in other Bank projects in the Caribbean, will allow
for the tracking of inflows by funding source, and outflows by: (i) project component; (ii) funding
source; and (iii) disbursement category. Based on this information, relevant financial reports can be
prepared. The Chart of Accounts had been drafted by the appraisal date, and will be finalized as the
project is fully defined - i.e. once the PAD and loan agreement have been completed. The PMU is
working to design the appropriate reports to track project financial activity.
F. Audit Arrangements
Project accounts will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, under terms
of reference to be approved by the Bank. Certified copies of the audit reports would be furnished to
the Bank no later than four months after the end of the fiscal year. Auditors are being currently
recruited. The Bank has already cleared the complete final bidding package and has made the hiring of
the auditors as a disbursement condition.
- 56 -



G. Allocation of credit proceeds (see Table C).
The proposed Loan would be disbursed over a period of 4 years, and the project is to be closed by
December 31, 2005. Disbursements would be in accordance with the guidelines set out in the Bank's
Disbursement Handbook and the LACI Implementation Handbook. Disbursements would be made
against categories of expenditures presented in table C below.
IThresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 57 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan/credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan/Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
Consultants (except individuals)           1.99                        100%
Individual consultants                     0.55                        100%
Goods                                      0.05               100% foreign expenditures
80% local expenditures
Total Project Costs                        2.59
Interest during construction       0.00
Front-end fee         0.01
Total                                      2.60        __
- 58 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ST. LUCIA: Water Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      12                           15
First Bank mission (identification)             12/04/1999                   12/04/1999
Appraisal mission departure                     11/02/2000                   03/06/2001
Negotiations                                    05/17/2001                   11/08/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   08/07/2001                   01/21/2002
Prepared by:
Water & Sewerage Corporation
Contact Person: Mr. Martin Satney - General Manager
Project Preparation Unit - PPU
Contact Person: Mr. John Joseph - Project Coordinator
Preparation assistance:
Caribbean Development Bank - CDB
Contact People: Mr.Haydn Blaize -Project Officer; Ms. Valerie Kelsick - Project Officer/Analyst
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Alexander Bakalian                Task Team Leader - Senior Water Supply Specialist
Yoko Katakura                     Senior Financial Analyst
Jordan Schwartz                   Senior Private Sector Development Specialist
Chiaki Yamamoto                   Regulatory Framework Analyst
Lorenzo Bertolini                 Private Sector Development Analyst
Stephen Myers                     Consultant - Water Utility Engineer
Jyoti Shukla                      Sector Leader
Abel Mejia                        Sector Manager
Daniel Boyce                      Senior Financial Management Specialist
Vladimir Jadrijevic               Senior Procurement Specialist
Patricia Acevedo                  Program Assistant
Eric Haythome                     Senior Counsel
Juan David Quintero               Senior Environmental Specialist
Kirsten Oleson                    Environmental Engineer
Luz Maria Gonzalez                Consultant - Financial Analyst
- 59-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ST. LUCIA: Water Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
-Thames Water International Consultancy UK, "Action Plan for Strategic Plan for Improvement of
Financial Management", March 1997
-The Calderon Group, "The Corporatisation of St. Lucia's Water Utility", February 1998
B. Bank Staff Assessments
-Back-to-Office Report: Identification Mission, September 1999
-Back-to-Office Report: Identification Mission, December 1999, Aide Memoire, December 1999
-Back-to-Office Report: Post Identification Mission, February 2000, Aide Memoire, February 200)0
-Back-to-Office Report: Preparation Mission, May 2000
-Back-to-Office Report: Preparation Mission, June 2000
-Back-to-Office Report: Preparation Mission, October 2000
-Back-to-Office Report: Preparation Mission, February 2001, Aide Memoire, February 2001
-Back-to-Office Report: Pre-Appraisal Mission, March 2001, Aide Memoire, March 2001
-Pat Ellis Associates, Inc./Kairi Consultants Ltd., "Social Impact Assessment of Private Sector
Participation in the Water and Sewerage Company of St. Lucia", February 2001
-The Nicholson Institute, "A Sectoral Environmental Analysis for the Water and Sewerage Sector o f St.
Lucia", March 2001
C. Other
-Electricity Regulations, Statutory Rules and Orders, #26, 1971
-Public Utilities Commission Act, ##12, 1973.
-Public Utilities Commission (Amendments) Act, #10 of 1974, #5 of 1975, #5 of 1979, #15 of 1989.
-Electricity Supply Act, #10 of 1994
-Electricity (Amendment) (#2) Regulations, Statutory Instrument, #3, 1995
-Companies Regulations, Statutory Instrument, #81, 1996
-Companies Act, #19 of 1996
-Aliens (Licensing) Act, #9 of 1999
-Water & Sewerage Act, #13 of 1999
-Maxim Engineering Inc., "Pre-Feasibility Study - Solid Waste Management Project Sewerage & Sewage
Treatment Component", August 1996
-Flynn & Rothwell Ltd. Consulting Engineers, "St. Lucia: Southern Region Water Supply Project",
February 1998
-Stantec Consulting International Ltd., "Reorganization Study St. Lucia Water and Sewerage Authority",
October 1999
-Environmental Health Division Office of Health and Nutrition, "Activity Report #67 - A Review of Water
Conservation Practices and Potential for Tourist Facilities in Barbados and St. Lucia", June 1999
-Companies Act of Saint Lucia, Company #136 of 1999, Form 3, "Water and Sewerage Company
Incorporated", August 1999.
-Groupe Agence Francaise de Development, Memorandum of AFD Mission in St. Lucia, November 1999
-De Jong, Remy, Water Management Consultancy, "Restructuring of the Windward Islands Banana
Industry", May 2000
*Including electronic files
- 60-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ST. LUCIA: Water Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                 disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                          IBRD          IDA                           Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P054939        2000 LC-POVERTY REDUCTION FUND                              1.50       1.50                             0.00       2.76       0.57        0.00
P070430        1999 Saint Lucia Disaster Management                       3.04        2.95                             0.00       5.36       -0.63       0.00
Total:        4.54        4.45                             0.00        8.12      -0.06        0 00
- 61 -



ST. LUCIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Mar-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbuirsed
IFC                              IFC  _ -
FY Approval         Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
Total Portfolio:          0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.0(1    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                            Loan    Equity      Quasi     Partic
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
- 62 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ST. LUCIA: Water Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project
Latin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America   middle-
St. Lucia   & Carib.  Income     Development diamond*
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                       0.15       509       573                 Life expectancy
GNP Der capita (Atlas method, US$)                   3,770     3,840     4,900
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      0.58     1,955     2,811
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                         1.6       1.6       1.4      GNP
Labor force (%)                                          ..      2.5       2.1      GNP                  -          Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                               capita                      enrollment
Povertv (% of Population below national povertv line)
Urban Population (% of total Population)                38        75        76                       l
Life expectancv at birth (years)                        72        70        70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                15        31        27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                         8         7                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)       75        75        78
Illiteracy (% of population aqe 15+)                     ..       12        10
Gross primarv enrollment (% ofschool-age population)    94       113       109          St. Lucia
Male                                                  ..        ..        ..               Upper-middle-income group
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                           0.10     0.31      0.61      0.65
Gross domestic investment/GDP                   ..    34.6      19.3      21.0
ExPorts of qoods and services/GDP            63.1     80.2      65.2      66.0                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      ..    12.7      16.8      18.0
Gross national savinqs/GDP                      ..    13.5      12.2      12.6
Current account balancelGDP                 -27.2    -21.1      -7.1      -8.4      Domestic       i
Interest pavments/GDP                           ..     0.8       0.9       1.0      Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                        21.1      30.1                 ai                         I
Total debt service/exports                     ..      2.0       3.8
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..       ..      26.0
Present value of debVexports                   ..       ..      37.3
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998      1999   1999-03
(avera,qe annual growth)
GDP                                  5.8      3.6      2.8       3.1       4.4            -St. Lucia
GNP per capita                        ..      1.2      1.4       1.5       3.2               Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       10.5      2.0      4.7       4.3       4.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP (%t
(% of GDP)
Aqriculture                                  15.2     13.3       8.3       7.4                         T 
Industrv                                     22.8     20.5      18.4      19.3      1  
Manufacturinq                               8.2      8.3        5.8       5.7      o
Services                                     62.0     66.2      73.3      73.4    .10
Private consumption                            ..     69.4      68.1      62.2    -20
Generalqovernment consumption                  ..    17.9       15.1      19.8              -GDI          --_-GDP
Imports of qoods and services               101.9    102.1      67.8      69.0
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999     Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   7.6     -1.5       2.6      -11.6    10-
Industry                                      9.6      3.1      -0.9      10.1
Manufacturina                              11.8      0.2       -8.0       6.3     5
Services                                      6.7      3.7       2.8       3.7
Private consumption                           3.9      3.3       2.7       2.7      0 -o
General government consumption                4.9      3.3      -0.3       2.1       l
Gross domestic investment                     4.6     -0.3     -19.3      12.8    -5 
Imports of goods and services                 7.2      0.5      -4.8       5.0            -Exports    dlmports
Gross national product                         ..      2.8       3.0       3.1
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-qroup averaqe. If data are missinq, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 63 -



St. Lucia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998      1999     Inflation (%)
Domestik prices
(% chanqe)
Consumer prices                               9.5      4.0       3.6       6.1
Implicrt GDP deflator                          ..      4.3       2.2       2.6
Govenmment finance
(% of GDP, includes currentgrants)                                                        94      ss         97   9E    99
Current revenue                                       25.1      26.1      38.      4
Current budget balance                         ..      5.6       6.2      10.6            -GDP deflator      CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..      1.7       1.8       1.6
TRADE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..    109          79       87    400
Bananas                                       ..      58        34        32
Fruits and vegetables                        ..        1         1         1    300 -
Manufactures                                  ..      37        17        13
Total imports (cifl                            ..    275         335      367    200 -
Food                                         ..       50        73        73     io - 
Fuel and eneroy                               ..      16        29        28
Capital goods                                 ..      69        71        80      o_
93  94  95   96  97  96   99
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..      98        115       95
Import price index (1995=100)                  ,,      92         91       93                    Exsports   * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       .     107        125      103
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP (-K)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                 66      250        399      426       0
Imports of qoods and services                105      318       414       446
Resource balance                              -40      -68       -15       -19
Net income                                     0       -11       -43       -45
Netcurrent transfers                          11       14         15       11
Current account balance                      -28       46        -43       -54    -10
Financinq items (net)                         30       72         53       58
Changes in net reserves                        -2       4        -10        -4    -15
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        12       39         69       72
Conversion rate (DEC. locallUS$J              2.7      2.7       2.7       2.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            ..     66        184
IBRD                                         ..       0          5        6                        A                     1
IDA                                          ..       0         11       12                        AS 1
Total debt service                                      5         16                     G: 57
IBRD                                         .        0          1        1
IDA                                          ..       0          0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              ..       6         14D:7
Official creditors                           ..      12         -1
Private creditors                                     0          7                     F: 7
Foreign direct investment                   26       27         46
Portfolio equity                             ..       0                                     E: 34
World Bank program
Commitments                                  ..       0          7        3      A- IBRD                    E - Bilateial
Disbursements                                ..       0          3        1    | - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         ..       0          0        0      C - IMF                    G - Short-tetrm
Net flows                                    ,.       0          3        1
Interest payments                            ..       0          0        1
Net transfers                                ..       0          2        0
Development Economics                                                                                               9/12/00
- 64 -



Additional
Annex 11
Social Assessment
Introduction
The purpose of the social impact assessment is to provide information that will facilitate the process of
private sector participation and the impact on WASCO's customers, employees and the public at large.
Generally, in any project, objectives are expected to be achieved in a cost-effective manner, so that while
its benefits are maximized, the burdens imposed on the society are kept at a minimum. However, the final
cost imposed on the society should be equitable and no group should be required to bear a disproportionate
share of the burden. In addition, the participation of well-informed and supportive stakeholders is critical to
its success.
The specific objectives of the current assessment were: a) to provide information on the population in the
project areas, including information on their household income, on their level of satisfaction with the
quality of water and on the current service being provided by WASCO, b) to identify actions that people
take when there is a water shortage, c) to analyze the impact of the recent increase on lower income groups
and on the tourist industry, d) to assess customers' ability and willingness to pay increases for an improved
service, e) to analyze the possibility of further job cuts in WASCO during the privatization process, f) to
identify activities to increase the public's understanding of the need for private sector participation in
WASCO and of the benefits to be derived in terms of increased water availability, coverage, reliability, and
quality.
The assessment was national in scope and was carried out in urban, suburban and rural communities in five
areas in various parts of the island. The information collected therefore provides some idea of the impact
that the project will have on people living in different geographic location and on individuals in different
income brackets.
Methodology
The Assessment was designed to collect quantitative as well as qualitative data and several data collection
methods were used to obtain information from primary and secondary sources. Prior to developing the data
collection instruments, and before the start of the fieldwork, the Consultants reviewed several of WASCO's
documents, and held informal discussions with key individuals and with employees in the company. They
also visited three treatment plants, one in Babonneau and two in Vieux Fort, as well as two of the
communities in which the WB/CDB project will be implemented. These preliminary activities ensured that
the instruments used to collect the data were informed by and reflected some of the concerns of those who
will be affected by the initiatives being taken by WASCO and by the WB/CDB Project.
Data from and about domestic customers were collected in communities in the designated areas and data
from non-domestic customers were collected from organizations in the agriculture, manufacturing and
tourism sectors. Baseline data about the population in the project areas were collected from the last census
and from a survey conducted by the Central Statistical Office on request from WASCO.
Qualitative data provided insights into customers' views and opinions about the current services and about
their perceptions and expectations of an improved service. The Assessment also provided opportunities for
- 65 -



Members of the Board as well as the staff of WASCO to share information and to give their views and
opinions about changes resulting from the restructuring process, about the proposed private sector
participation in the operations of WASCO and about the likely impact of this initiative. Data was collected
through: a) content analysis of the existing documents, b) questionnaires: One questionnaire was
administered to a small number of hotels (9) and guesthouses stratified on the basis of size and selected at
random, and another was administered to 25 households in the five selected areas, c) interviews and round
table Discussions were conducted with key representatives from government ministries, private sector
organizations and trade unions, d) focus group discussions were conducted with groups in the five selected
communities, the Board of Directors of WASCO and the Managing Director and Manager, senior
managers, middle managers, work crews and artisans, and the administrative/support staff of WA'SCO, f)
community meetings were organized in each of the five areas in which the study was being carriec out.
Findings
Level of Service. WASCO'S water supply and distribution operations are managed from two sepa:-ate
offices. Services to the north of the island are managed from its Castries offices and to the south frcrn
offices at Vieux Fort. At present the Vieux Fort office appears to be somewhat "self contained" ancL to
enjoy a certain level of autonomy.
In January 2001, except for services to cruise ships, WASCO'S customer files showed a total of 44,171
water supply accounts of which 80% are domestic customers, and of which about 42 % are handled from
the southern office. While overall, as much as 85 % of the connections are metered, the level of
,ion-functioning meters appear to be quite high.
A countrywide population sample survey conducted by the Government Statistical Department in 1 '99
showed that 99% of the respondents had access to an available public water supply. Based on an eslimated
liousehold size of 4.02, the current domestic customer base of 35,183 would suggest that as much as 92 %
of the population has access to pipe borne water. The official 1991 Census indicates a breakdown by type
of service that shows 48 % piped into dwellings, 15% to yard taps and 28% to stand pipes.
Available statistics indicate that the greater proportion of the population is still served by septic tanks
(30%) and pit latrines (49%). However, WASCO operates two wastewater treatment systems, both in the
rnorth of the island. The first, which is over 50 years old, serves parts of Castries and the second new e r
system serves Rodney Bay and Gros Islet. Connections to the sewer systems are low, representing only
about 6 % of the water supply accounts.
T'able 1: Connections to WASCO's Sewage Collection Systems (as at January 2001)
Industrial/
System          Hotels                Government   Domestic    TOTAL
__               ~~~~Commercial   ________ ________
Rodney Bay!                  33             5           473          520
Gros Islet
Castries           -         425            17          1514        1956
TOTAL             9          458           22           1987        2476
Source: WASCO
- 66 -



Impact of new rates on household income. Based on the results of the 1999 population sample survey
referred to earlier, rough estimations suggest that the mean household monthly income is in the vicinity of
EC$985. Domestic water consumption data made available from WASCO indicates that the average
household consumption is approximately 3,918 gallons per month. At the old tariff, this implies an average
household monthly bill for a customer who receives both water and sewerage services of approximately
EC$39. At the new tariff the figure increases to EC$56. The implementation of the new tariff on the
average therefore has increased the proportion of household income spent on water and sewerage services
from approximately 4.0% to 5.7%. The corresponding increase for a water only customer is from 2.0% to
3.6%.
While the figures presented above are rough estimations, a proportion of income spent on water and
sewerage services of greater than 5 % is generally considered high by international standards and suggests
that further increases can be burdensome for the average customer.
Complaints. Comprehensive data on the handling of customer complaints are not readily available. Data
gleaned from the population sample survey conducted by the Statistics Department in 1999 however
suggest that there has been general dissatisfaction with the speed and adequacy of responses to customers'
reports about faults. As much as 69% of the respondents in that survey indicated that responses to reports
were forthcoming only sometimes, seldom or never. A similar proportion (67 %) indicated that where
responses have been forthcoming they were only sometimes, seldom or never quick and adequate.
Data from households interviewed, from focus group discussions and from community meetings conducted
during this Assessment, indicate that while some customers are of the view that there has been some
attempt to improve this situation, the majority are still dissatisfied with the length of time it takes to deal
with their complaints as well as with the type of reaction and responses received.
Human resources. The human resource base of WASCO is still weak and there are a number of skill gaps
in key areas of the organization. At the same time existing human resources are not always well deployed
and used throughout the organization. As a result some departments are overstaffed while others are
understaffed. A Skills Level Survey conducted in early 1999 identified serious deficiencies in human
relations skills, supervisory skills, management skills and literacy and basic education. In addition there are
still a number of employees who are unproductive, and whose level of performance is unacceptable. In fact
there are employees at all levels who feel strongly that non-performers should be got rid of and that it is
important for WASCO to determine how many people and what skills are needed to get the job done.
In terms of the staff development program, several activities have already been undertaken. However, the
initial focus has been on exposing managers and supervisors to an intensive training program in leadership
and management that is being conducted by a facilitator from the UWI Institute of Business in Trinidad. In
addition, all staff members have and are being exposed to training in customer relations and
communications, and according to staff members, although several individuals are still "stuck in the old
mode ", exposure to training has already resulted in significant change in individuals, in their approach to
work and in the way that they are managing. Among the changes cited are dramatic transformation and
personal growth in some individuals, managers who are doing things differently than they did before, better
interpersonal relations, improvement in staff morale and in the level of motivation towards
self-improvement, and an increase in productivity in some areas.
WASCO 's Image and the Public's Perception. Over the years WASA had developed a very poor image
and the public had lost confidence in the organization. With the creation of WASCO its new managers
faced the challenge of changing the publics' perceptions, building a positive image and improving the
- 67 -



relationship with customers. In addition, it was important to help the public to understand the process of
corporatization, reasons for privatization of the enterprise, and the potential benefits to these of the sector
and to customers.
Several initiatives have therefore been undertaken to meet these challenges and to change these perceptions
and to improve the company's image. Among these were the contracting of a Public Relations firm to
design and implement a three-month Public Relations Program aimed at informing the public of the
changes, justifying the rate increase, and raising awareness about water-related issues. During the
campaign, extensive use was made of the print and electronic media and some months after the end of the
campaign a survey was carried out to assess its impact. While the campaign has achieved some positive
results, and while the image is improving slowly, a lot more needs to be done to improve the quality ol the
services being provided in order to change the negative perceptions that members of the public have ol-
WASCO.
WASCO 's unions. In discussion with representatives of the two unions it appeared that there was a feeling
that they had not been well informed or involved in discussions about the proposed corporatization ard
private sector participation of WASCO. They were concemed about the terms and conditions under which
WASCO would employ former workers of WASA.
Both unions pointed out that the concepts of corporatization and privatization were not well understood,
and that they were not convinced that this would result in an improved service, and that if it did, it would
only be at the cost of human resources. Because of this, they expressed concern about and identified some
cof the possible negative effects and social impact. For example, they listed lack of job security,
unemployment, social hardships experienced by families of retrenched workers, undesirable social
behaviors and an increase in social problems. They referred to recent retrenchment of workers by other
companies, to the hardships being faced by the families of such workers, and to the fact that if WASCO
decided to retrench more of its workers, it would add to the problem. They were of the view that enoLugh
consideration had not been given to the social factors and the social costs of privatization and that this must
be taken into account in the Project.
In termns of the relationship between the unions and WASCO, they agreed that since corporatization there
had been some improvement in their relationship. However, they pointed out that more work needs to be
done in order to develop a strong partnership and to increase understanding of the meaning of the
partnership. The management of WASCO and the unions therefore need to see themselves as social
partners, to clearly define their roles and responsibilities and to agree on the nature of their relationship.
Availability of water to the hotels. The questions sought to elicit from the hotels their levels of satisfaction
with the availability and the quality of water provided by WASCO. The responses showed general
satisfaction with WASCO's services, with more than 62% indicating that the service was reliable or better.
However the larger hotels tended to be less satisfied and categorized availability as not very reliable or
worse. This pattern of responses was also reflected with respect to the regularity of disruptions in serv. ce.
The largest hotel in the sample was consistent in the view that disruptions were regular and all other
responses indicated that disruptions are usually unplanned with no pre advised schedule. Four (4) of the
respondents indicated that during disruptions they have had to make alternative arrangements to purchase
truck borne water at a premium cost. The price has been as high as 29 cents per gallon, which is more than
31% higher than the scheduled WASCO rate. On the quality of water supplied by WASCO, there was
general satisfaction particularly with respect to smell and taste, but at least two of the respondents indicated
dissatisfaction in this regard. Again, the largest hotel in the sample indicated a greater level of
dissatisfaction with respect to both color and smell. The Hotel and Tourism Association however did not
- 68 -



consider water quality a major issue as in their view the quality was generally satisfactory.
Cost of and Attitude Toward Water. All respondents agreed that water should not be free to customers,
mainly because they recognized that there is a cost to providing the service, that it would be unfair to
burden tax payers with the cost, and that in order to provide a good service to the nation, WASCO needed
to generate adequate funds. They were also of the view that charging for consumption is necessary so as to
minimize wastage and abuse and to send appropriate signals with respect to conservation.
Notwithstanding this view, there was general disagreement with the recent 100 % increase in tariffs and the
general feeling was that: a) the recent increase had been too sudden and too steep and that rate increases
should always be gradual so as to avoid "rate shock", b) the current service is too inadequate and poor to
justify an increase, and c) customers had no advance warning about the increase and that this had adversely
affected hoteliers who advertise room rates as much as a year in advance. As a consequence there is an
unwillingness to pay further increased rates for an improved service.
Respondents generally viewed privatization not as an end in itself but as a strategy for achieving greater
efficiency in operations and with priority being placed on customer services. However, they did identify the
need for a "shake up" in the whole management structure of WASCO, and for better planning and
management, and for proper consideration to be given to the pros and cons of privatization and of its
potential impact on the general public. It was also suggested that there was need to go the full distance
toward ensuring an end to government interference in the operations of WASCO.
All of the interviewees with access to running water were billed monthly by WASCO and had received a
bill within the previous month. It was generally felt that the charges on the bills were correct, although
concerns were raised that the bills sometimes had errors in the amount of the arrears stated, and that
inexplicably large amounts would suddenly appear on the bill. Customers experienced little difficulty with
paying their bills, as the majority did so through their banks.
All of the residents who participated in the data collecting activities stressed the importance of having
access to a regular supply of good quality water. The majority, about 80%, felt that customers should have
to pay for water, and acknowledged that WASCO would be unable to bear the cost of supplying quality
service without any income from customers. It was also felt that customers would be more inclined to
waste water if they did not have to pay for it, but the general consensus was that if water was indeed free, it
would be the duty of the government to bear this cost.
Focus groups by gender In addition to the opinions, concerns and reactions of households surveyed and of
residents in community meetings, information obtained in the focus group discussions raised issues about
how the availability of water and the regularity of water supply affects different groups of customers and
creates problems for them.
a) Women
The majority of women were dissatisfied with the service provided because they had expected a significant
improvement in the quality of water and services provided by WASCO and this had not happened. While in
some areas, e.g. Vieux Fort, the quality of water has improved, in others like Gros Islet women identified
several problems. Among these were the poor quality of water, including dirty water with a foul smell that
sometimes comes through the taps and baths. They pointed out that this is a health hazard and suggested
that WASCO make a greater effort to clean the rusty pipes. They also complained that clothes were soiled
- 69 -



and discolored, baths and toilet bowls stained brown and that this increases their work since more effort
and cleaning agents are required to keep them white. They pointed out that domestic appliances wei:e also
being destroyed as a consequence of sediment that settled, but that WASCO had refused claims for
compensation.
In addition because of regular shut offs and the late hours at which water came into their taps, women often
had to stay up very late or to get up sometimes as early as 3:00am to catch water and to wash and do other
household chores. They pointed out that in addition to disrupting their housework and schedules, th:Is
resulted in a waste of time, wastage of water and soap, loss of sleep and insufficient rest, late arrival at
work and school, additional financial costs required to replace damaged appliances and to buy water at
prices as high as $24.00 per tin. Several women found their water bills "confusing" and more difficult to
understand than the electricity bills. They said that the bills needed to be more "user-friendly", that m-leters
should be read regularly and that customers should not receive bills based on an average over a period of
time. They also felt that they had to spend too much time at the office when they went to query their bills,
and that they should be able to do so at locations and places nearer to their communities. While the
majority did not mind paying some more for an improved service, they felt that the recent increase was not
justified because of the "filthy fluid that flows from the system", and were of the view that there should
have been a gradual increase in the rates.
The women were concerned about the ability of large families with many children, and of unemployed and
elderly persons to pay for water. They pointed out that some people who work for only three days per week
at $20.00 per day/$300.00 per month would find it burdensome to pay the high water bill along with their
other bills, and they were of the view that something should be done to help large families, unemployed
persons and the poor.
While many of the women did not know or understand what privatization meant, some of those who did
were of the view that privatization was not a good thing because according to them WASCO's main
interest would now be on making more money and the customer would not be considered important.
Hlowever, others felt that privatization would mean that the company would be free of political interference
and that should allow it a free hand to serve the people better.
bl IMen
L,ike the women, men complained about the unavailability, irregularity and poor quality of water, abcut the
amount of time spent in.collecting and storing water, and about the cost of buying water from trucks mnd
sometimes by the bottle. However, unlike the women while some of the men did not see the price as a
problem but rather the service and quality of the water, several others saw the recent increases as "aading
insult to injury" and as having adverse effects on the unemployed and on customers whose salaries had not
increased. Like the women the men did not feel that recent changes in WASCO had resulted in any
imriprovement in the service. According to them, WASCO has continued to treat their complaints light:ly.
Some commented that they were not paying for water consumption but 'for the air which is in the pip e
whlen the water is shut off and which spins the meter". They stressed that it is important that the bills *;how
clearly, exactly what the customer is paying for.
With regard to recent changes, it was felt that because WASCO does not communicate with its customers
so that when the change came, people reacted to them negatively. Some of the men were of the view that
privatization had its advantages and disadvantages and that unless it resulted in greater accountability and
in a marked improvement in WASCO, administratively and in the field, then it would be a waste of time.
Some however felt that it would reduce political interference and lead to increased productivity.
- 70 -



Additional Annex 12: Policy Letter
ST. LUCIA: Water Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project
OFFICE OF THE PRIME MINISTER
GRUEAHAM LOUSSY A`0MIN1SSrRT1Vr-ULON
WATERFRONT CAStRIES                      Tel. "a 1)I
SAINT LUCIA,                    ~~~~~~~~~461 2l16
Fax 463 7362
June 22, 2001
Ms. Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Director
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
USA
Dear Ms. Kaltntzopoulos,
I refer to your letter dated April 13, 2001 on the subject of the Water Sector
Reforn Technical Assistance Project.
The Govemment of St. Lucia recognizes the fact that an efficient water and
wastewater system is necessary to sustain growth and development. [t is a fact
that despite years of efforts to improve the performance of the public water
company through conventional institutional strengthenig programmes and
twinning arrangements, the. Water and Sewerage Company Inc. (WASCO)
continues to perforn poorly. Further, Government is facing stringent fiscal
constraints which rules out the option of continued fumding for WASCO's
operations. Given the foregoing the Government of St. Lucia has comnitted to
transforming WASCO to a privately run enterprise and expects that this process
will be completed by December 2003.
Government has demonstrated its commitment to this policy by transforming
the utility fiom a statutory body to a company incorporated under the
Companies Act, increasing the tariff levels substantially, reducing the size of the
work force, introducing professional management in the persons of the General
Manager and the Managing Director, and establishing the National Water and
Sewerage Commission (NWSC) to regulate the sector.  Government is fully
committed to a review and strengthening of the legal and regulatory framework
that would guarantee an independent regulatory body whose functions and
responsibilities are clearly delineated, separating policy making
- 71 -



June 22, 2001                                              Page 2
Ms. Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Director
Canbenn  Country Management Unit
responsibilities and water resource management functions, and clariming the
responsibilities for the introduction of private sector participation.
However, there are many istutional and legal issues that remain to be solved.
Further, we are of the view that the ongoing transfonnation of the sector should
be sustainable and irreversible. During this transformation, we are acutely
aware of the fragility of the existing water and wastewater infrastructure and
recognize that these systems need to be sustained in the short term. In this
regard, the Government of St. Lucia fully supports the Water Sector Reform and
Technical Assistance Project being fimded by the World Bank (WB) and the
Canrbbean Development Bank (CDB). The components of the project would
entad the fiollowing elements: (1) technical assistance for strengthening the
regulatory and envirnmntal framework and the capacity of the NWSC; (ii)
technical assistance for strengthening WASCO's intemal systems, (iii) technical
assistance for carrying out the private sector transaction. This will comprise an
element to determiine the feasibility of private sector participation, and an
element for the implementation of the trasaction; (iv) assistance to invest in
urgently needed works in the transition period; (v) project management and a
public disseminaion progranume to foster consensus on the private sector
participation project; (vi) assistance in support of the training needs of WASCO
and NWSC personnel.
With regard to the composition and structure of the Project Management Unit,
we are of the view that this unit should report to the Permaent Secretary in the
Ministry of Planning. The group advising on policy will comprise of the
Ministers of Planning, Fmance and Utilities or their nominees, the Attorney
General or nominee and the chairman of WASCO  or nominee.  More
specifically, we feel that the Managing Director of WASCO will be better
utilized at WASCO  during the transfomaon execise, and a suitable
coordinator who enjoys the confidence of the Government of Saint Lucia and
the management of WASCO be recruited after appropriate advertisement.
- 72-



June 22, 2001                                                Page 3
Ms. Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Director
Caribbean Country Management Unit
In respect of the sharing of the costs, I am of the view that the costs should be
bome by the Project. The Govenmment has absorbed a substantial amount of
WASCO's debts and cannot accept further liability. Moreover, I am advised
that several members of staff of WASCO will be seconded to the Project thus,
in efrect, contributing directly to project management costs.
Yours sincerely,
Kenny D. Anthony
PRIME MINITER
Cc:  Hon. Senator Calixte George, Minister for
Comnunications, Works and Public Utilities
Mr. Gordon Charles, Chairman
WASCO
Mrs. Alison King Joseph, Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Planning, Development, Environment & Housing
- 73 -






IBRD 26505
fP_ Sj'.X(VKi r M-o,T.o (N,l4                                 61 00' O0r
REFU>35§ 2  ~~~  -  ,~- St. 8.rth.t.oy IF,)
Riro t"' i5i  SfiJ {N hJi ANTIGUA -tn iARWUDA
'OS'        (Nth4J I                                                                                '~,i                ATLANTIC
ST iT"TS -rd NEVI5--|I  GoldebJF.)
b A  ;? iB f C A                    C Mo nt tmttlUK DOMINICA                                          -    C                                OCEAN
, _ >                  C ~~~~~~~~~Morthriq- .                                                              i F,J
ST. LUCIA                                           G Gros (slAt :ay           -                                        14t05-
th    BARBAD-OS                                             Go  se 
GRiNADNES                                                             Gos  Isle
AI,rttho (NttSIl M  CvrBgrAn tN th)   . GRiENADA                                                             /-J  >,        ,
f'  n<VitortNli'^  SRoo(SIBTb                                                                                          \             erGnrCE flGrOGr   :
01.   <                                                                                                                          ETRINTDAD,d 
1<                              ~~~~~~~~~~TOBAGO'2 ~                                               
j  j        V E N E Z U E L A
Choir 8a
S T.  L U C I A                                               CASTRIES                                                     Mr  HiN    Say
PRIMARY ROADS                         -                                                             r )
- - - -SECONDARY ROADS                                                                                         ROD                     riosdA  e
140A0'           _      MAJOR TOWN                                                                  BS oy \                            I       _                   1AO y
O      SELECTED TOWNS                               ,          >         '
'     AIRPORTS
PORTS
, . RIVERS
PARISH BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Anse La Ray.       'v 
fond d'Or Bay
Canaries                  Aj'T-                                 /3fEe5
.~ ~ ~ L .IE,                       )Kr ,,,n ,< q / /5 
'\' _E  - t   "S  '''"-j  R   j    --N                                      Port Pro4is
w A R S f^ il 'l -\-- S  UfiFR 1 TR t \,f^ gf Q'L I N
SouRr6r                                   i2 /I  9 E                 "    1
t   -W A  BAO R    A  jSp; W<0  (1 1  \S  nsO Chapeau
O    1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8 KILOMETERS                             --- CtNN
shown ~ ~ ~  ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ( { on tht mspR do  No ml   ntepr  fTeWrdfakGop                       N
61°05'IE~9    j' -                                          -          OCEAN
-13,45,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14
O      1       2       3      4       S MILES                      'r-cy
o    i   2   3   4   5   6   7   8 KILOMETERS
7Tit booofdories, colors, denominattions and any other inform aia'n
shawn an this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group,
any, judgment on fthe legal status of any territory, ar any endarsement
or acceptance of such baundaries.
61I05. 61,                                                                                         .
DECEMBER 1994



