Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3592-SLU
Development Credit Agreement
(Technical Assistance Water Sector Reform Project)
between
SAINT LUCIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 14, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3592-SLU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 14, 2002, between SAINT LUCIA (the Borrower) and 
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter from the Borrower, dated June 22, 
2001 which: (i) describes a program of objectives, actions and policies designed to achieve 
reform of the water and sanitation sector of Saint Lucia in terms satisfactory to the Association 
(hereinafter called the Program); (ii) declares the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program; and (iii) requests assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of Parts A, C and E of the Project;
(C)
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) (the Loan Agreement), the 
Bank has agreed to make a loan to the Borrower in the principal amount of one million three 
hundred thousand dollars ($1,300,000) (the Loan) to assist also in financing Parts A, C and E of 
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement;
(D)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that the 
proceeds of the credit provided for in this Agreement (the Credit) be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the loan provided 
for in the Loan Agreement (the Loan) are made;
(E)
by an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the Caribbean 
Development Bank (CDB) (the CDB Loan Agreement), CDB has agreed to make a loan to the 
Borrower in the principal amount equivalent to four million five hundred and forty-one thousand 
dollars ($4,541,000) (the CDB Loan) to assist in financing Parts B and D of the Project on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the CDB Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis
,
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)  
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, and the 
existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs 
(13) and (15):
“12. 
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the 
Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and ‘Participating 
Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.”; and
Page  3
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a Participating  Country or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table in Part 
A. 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for services referred to in 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(c)
“MOU” means the memorandum of understanding to be entered into by the 
Borrower pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
(d)
“Ministry” means the Ministry of Planning, Development, Environment and 
Housing of the Borrower and any successor to this Ministry;
(e)
 “NWSC” means the National Water and Sewerage Commission of Saint Lucia 
established pursuant to the Water and Sewerage Act 1999 (i.e. Act No. 13 dated March 25, 
1999); 
(f)
“Operations Manual” means the Borrower’s manual referred to in Section 
3.01(b) of this Agreement which details, 
inter alia
, the auditing, accounting and financial 
reporting arrangements for the Project, as well as the Borrower’s plans for Project 
implementation and procurement;
(g)
“Output Indicators” means the Project’s progress and performance targets and 
indicators to be used in evaluating progress toward achievement of the objectives of the Project, 
as set forth in the letter of even date herewith from the Borrower to the Association;
(h)
“PMU” means the Project’s management unit referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement, as established in October 2001 within the Ministry;
(i)
“Project Agency” means either NWSC or WASCO and “Project Agencies” 
means collectively NWSC and WASCO;
(j)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(k)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Page  4
Agreement; 
(l)
“WASCO” means the Water and Sewerage Company, Inc, incorporated on 
August 9, 1999 as Company No. 136 of 1999 under the Companies Act 1996 of Saint Lucia; and 
(m)
“Water Supply Legislation” means the Borrower’s: (i) Water and Sewerage Act, 
1999 and the Companies Act No. 19, 1996 both as amended; (ii) any regulations and by-laws, as 
amended, made under the texts set forth in subparagraph (i) herein; (iii) all subordinate 
legislation, orders, notices and loan approval resolutions made under the Water and Sewerage 
Act 1984, No. 18, and in force immediately before the coming into force of the Water and 
Sewerage Act, 1999; and (iv) such other legislation which enables the Borrower, with the 
assistance of NWSC and WASCO, to carry out the Project. 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent 
to one million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,100,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association may establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
Page  5
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15 and 
September 15 commencing March 15, 2012 and ending March 15, 2036. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on September 15, 2021 shall be one and one-fourth percent 
(1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half 
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(i)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(ii)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Planning and any person or 
persons who he or she shall designate in writing is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
Page  6
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through 
the Ministry, with the assistance of NWSC for Part A of the Project and WASCO for Parts B, C 
and D of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, technical, environmental and privatization practices, and shall provide, 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the 
Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Operations Manual. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower 
shall include in its annual budget proposals, during each year of the execution of the Project, and 
make available promptly as needed, the necessary funding of its share of goods, works and 
services as provided in the Operations Manual.
(d)
The Borrower shall not amend, modify, waive, or alter in any way provision of the 
Operations Manual without the prior written consent of the Association.  In case of any conflict 
between the terms of the Operations Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall, through the Ministry, enter into a Memorandum of 
Understanding (MOU) with both NWSC and WASCO under terms and conditions acceptable to 
the Association, including, 
inter alia
, those set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.     
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the MOU in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to achieve the purposes of the 
Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive the MOU or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.03.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, throughout the course of Project implementation maintain within 
the Ministry a Project Management Unit to coordinate Project implementation, such unit to be 
staffed by adequate numbers of professionals with qualifications, experience, functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, procurement of the 
consultants’ services required for Parts A, C and E of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Output Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and 
Page  7
the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association and furnish to 
the Association, reports, the first not later than  March 31, 2003, the second not later than March 
31, 2004, and the third not later than March 31, 2005, integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities carried out by it pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the calendar year preceding the dates 
of such reports, setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such dates, and 
including a list of persons and entities benefiting from the Project; and
(c)
review with the Association, no later than June 30, 2003, June 30, 2004, and 
June 30, 2005  or such later date or dates as the Association may request, the reports referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section, respectively, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of such reports and the Association's views in these 
respects.  The Borrower shall invite to participate in such reviews with the Association the 
persons and entities listed in the respective reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.
Section 3.06.  If, as a result of any of the reviews referred to in Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement, the Association determines that the progress in the execution of the Project or in the 
achievement of its objectives is not satisfactory, the Borrower shall, through the Ministry, 
promptly take, and shall ensure that the Project Agencies promptly take, all such action, 
satisfactory to the Association, as shall be necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or 
the general achievement of its objectives.     
Section 3.07.  Subject to the outcome of the study to be prepared under Part A.1 of the 
Project, and not later than June 30, 2003 or such later date as the Association may agree, the 
Borrower shall take or shall cause to be taken the following measures so as to set the stage and 
facilitate the participation of the private sector in the delivery of water and sanitation services in 
St. Lucia:
(a)
submit to Parliament for enactment amendments to its Water Supply Legislation 
satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
formulate regulations satisfactory to the Association to be applied by NWSC;
(c)
commence the implementation of institutional capacity-building measures 
satisfactory to the Association in respect of NWSC;
(d)
formulate operating licenses, in terms satisfactory to the Association, for 
issuance by NWSC; and
(e)
commence the implementation of a NWSC training program satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 3.08. By December 31, 2003 or such later date as the Association may agree, the 
Borrower shall establish guidelines, satisfactory to the Association, for environmental licensing 
and environmental impact assessments of all water supply and sewerage investment projects in 
St. Lucia.
Page  8
Section 3.09.  Provided the measures described in Section 3.07 of this Agreement have 
been executed  by December 31, 2003 or such later date as the Association may agree, the 
Borrower shall, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, carry out a 
study of the feasibility of  private sector participation in the management and operation of 
WASCO.
Section 3.10.  Provided the study referred to in Section 3.09 of this Agreement concludes 
that a long-term concession contract or any other privatization model is feasible for WASCO,  by 
December 31, 2004 or such later date as the Association may agree, the Borrower shall, and/or 
cause WASCO, as appropriate, to publicly invite bids for entering into a contract by the 
Borrower and/or WASCO, satisfactory to the Association, with one or more private sector 
entities.    
Section 3.11.   The terms of reference for all services funded by the Credit shall be 
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, including those in respect of the environmental 
audit of WASCO’s assets and operations as part of the feasibility study referred to under Section 
3.09 hereof, as well as those for the bid package under Section 3.10 hereof.   The Borrower shall 
ensure or shall cause WASCO to ensure that the results of the environmental audit of WASCO’s 
assets and operations shall be included as part of such bid package and that the contract referred 
to in said Section 3.09, if entered into, shall require that the private sector operator(s) undertake 
the environmental remedial actions identified by such audit.
Section 3.12. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months after the Completion Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a final Project report, 
including a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on 
the plan referred above.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall create not later than three months after the Effective 
Date, and maintain throughout the course of Project implementation, a Project steering 
committee with membership acceptable to the Association, to oversee Project implementation. 
Such committee to include, 
inter alia
,
representatives of the Ministry, Ministry of 
Communications, WASCO and civil society.  
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) In respect of all Parts of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and shall prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to the Project.
Page  9
(b) 
In respect of Parts B, C and D of the Project, and as part of the Borrower’s 
obligation under Section 4.01(a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause WASCO to 
maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, adequate to register separately the operations and financial condition and to 
reflect its operations, resources and expenditures related to Parts B, C and D of the Project.
(c)
In respect of Parts B, C and D of the Project, the Borrower shall cause WASCO 
to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than three months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, for 
such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, 
accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to 
time reasonably request.
(d)  
For all expenditures in respect of Parts B, C and D of the Project, with respect to 
which withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management 
Reports or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause WASCO to:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained until at least 
one year after the Association has received the audit report for the fiscal 
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; 
and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(e)
In respect of Parts B, C and D of the Project, the Borrower shall cause WASCO 
to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (d) (i) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
Page  10
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested, including a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time 
reasonably request.
(f)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section in respect of Parts A and E of the Project, 
and the records and accounts for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (f) (i) of this Section for 
such year as so audited; and (B) (I) an opinion on such statements; (II) 
an opinion on all records and accounts referred to in paragraph (f) (i) of 
this Section; and (III) a report of such audit, all by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(g)
For all expenditures under Parts A and E of the Project with respect to which 
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
Page  11
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (f) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower and WASCO shall each carry out a separate time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred 
to in paragraphs (a) and (b), respectively, of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower 
and WASCO, not later than June 30, 2003, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to 
prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and
(B)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and
(B)
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plans referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and using, in part, information provided by WASCO, and furnish to the Association not later 
than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period 
for all Parts of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
Page  12
(a)
Any part of the Water Supply Legislation shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced so as, in the opinion of the Association, to materially 
and adversely affect the ability of the Borrower, with the assistance of NWSC and WASCO, to 
carry out the Project.
(b)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action with 
a view to, or resulting in, the suspension, in the Association’s opinion, of the Program or part 
thereof.
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the CDB 
Loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall 
have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the CDB Loan Agreement; or
(B) 
the CDB Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or pre-maturing is not caused by 
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such 
agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall have occurred; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of 
the General Conditions, namely that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan 
Agreement, other than the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement, have been 
fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date May 15, 2002 is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  13
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Permanent 
Secretary of the Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
Financial Center,
Bridge Street
3rd Floor
CASTRIES
St. Lucia
Facsimile:
(758) 4519706
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
1 202 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
SAINT LUCIA
By /s/ Sonia Johnny  
Authorized Representative
Page  14
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Orsalia Kalantzopoulos 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and the Loan
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the Loan to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Amount of the
% of
Credit Allocated
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in SDR)
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants’ studies
and services in 
respect of Parts A 
and E. 1 and E. 2 of 
      the Project           
340,000
435,000
100%
(2)
(a)  Consultants’ studies
and services in 
respect of Parts C 
and E. 3 of the 
Project
530,000
665,000
       100%
(b) External audits
30,000
50,000
       100%
(3) Goods
20,000
25,000
100% foreign
  expenditures,
80% of local
expenditures
(4) Unallocated
180,000
112,000
 
(5) Fee
13,000
Amount due 
under Section 
2.04 of the Loan 
Page  15
Agreement 
________
________
    TOTAL
1,100,000
1,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures:
(a)
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate 
amount not exceeding SDR 100,000, may be made in respect of Categories 1 and 2 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Part A of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures 
incurred within  nine months prior to the date of this Agreement but after October 15, 2001;
(b)
under Category 1 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Part A of this Schedule 
in respect of Part A of the Project until: (i) the Association has received notice from the 
Borrower that external auditors acceptable to the Association have been appointed by the 
Borrower; and (ii) the MOU referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement has been signed on 
behalf of the parties thereof; and
(c)
under Category 2 (a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Part A of this 
Schedule in respect of Part C of the Project until implementation of Parts A. 1 and A. 2 of the 
Project has been completed to the satisfaction of the Association.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Loan 
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for services in 
respect of which prior review is not required in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3, 
Part D. 2 of this Agreement under such terms and conditions as the Association may specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account or the Loan Account (as such term is 
defined in the Loan Agreement’s General Conditions) of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for 
Page  16
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal 
on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 (a) of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account or Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower or WASCO shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement any of the audit reports required to 
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records 
and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures 
with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of  a Project Management Report.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Association 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account or Loan Account pursuant to Section 
6.02 of the relevant General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made 
and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower 
of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified 
by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association or the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower 
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the 
Page  17
six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association, refund to the Association or the bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association or 
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association or the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) 
or (c) of this paragraph shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan Account, respectively, 
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Credit 
Agreement.
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to $200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, 
that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $100,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account or Loan Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the relevant General Conditions shall equal or 
exceed the equivalent of SDRs 500,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account or Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
or Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
Page  18
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
relevant General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account or Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or Loan shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account or Loan Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account or Loan Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account or Loan Account for deposit 
into the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit or Loan, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the Project 
Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to 
finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said 
Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the 
equivalent of $100,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to prepare:
(a)
an adequate legal and regulatory framework for the private delivery of water and 
sanitation services throughout St. Lucia; and
(b)
WASCO for the transition from a publicly-managed utility to a privately 
managed and operated company.
Page  19
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon in writing from time to time, in order to achieve 
the above objectives.
Part A
:Technical Assistance for the Strengthening of the Regulatory and Environmental 
Framework
1.
(a)
The design and implementation of institutional structures and arrangements 
which provide appropriate roles, responsibilities, staffing needs, funding sources, and legal, 
statutory or licensing requirements of: (i) NWSC; (ii) a secretariat and possibly an advisory 
council to support NWSC; and (iii) WASCO and any future water operator.
(b)
The formulation of appropriate recommendations regarding the repeal, 
amendment, expansion, clarification and/or modification of existing primary and enabling 
legislation, regulations, statutes and licenses, including the Water Supply Legislation, as 
amended.
(c)
The drafting of all relevant laws, regulations, statutes and licenses.
(d)
The design and implementation of a training program for regulators and NWSC 
staff that will allow them to fulfill their responsibilities (including environmental regulatory 
responsibilities).
2.
The formulation of an appropriate environmental framework, including guidelines for 
environmental licensing, environmental impact assessments and water resource management to 
be applied to all future water supply and sanitation operations.
Part B
: 
Technical Assistance for the Strengthening of WASCO’s Internal Systems
1.
The carrying out of diagnostic analyses of WASCO’s management information systems, 
financial management and accounting, customer service and operations and other functional 
areas and internal systems.
2.
The implementation of proposed internal procedures and systems so as to improve 
customer service, increase revenues, identify training programs and implement a public relations 
program for consensus-building within WASCO for private sector participation.
Part C
: Technical Assistance for the Privatization of WASCO
1.
The carrying out of a feasibility study for the privatization of WASCO covering: (a) 
estimates of the long-term demand for water; (b) assessment of expansion and rehabilitation 
investment needs; (c) financial modeling; (d) the privatized structure (including debt treatment, 
tariff levels and structure, and ownership issues); and (e) an investor survey.
2.
The implementation of steps required to carry out a potential transaction for the 
concessioning of WASCO assets and operations, including preparation of legal documents and 
supervision of the transaction for said concession.
Part D
: Equipping and  Rehabilitation
Page  20
1.
The provision to WASCO of water meters and leak detection equipment and the 
installation of same.
2.
The upgrading of the intake and the construction of a new water treatment plant at 
Woodlands/Grace (Vieux Fort system).
3.
The replacement of the raw water supply pipeline and ancillary works for the WASCO 
water treatment plant known as Hill 20.
4.
The replacement of the WASCO sewage pumps within the territorial limits of the city of 
Castries.
Part E
: Project Management and Public Information Campaign
1.
The provision of technical assistance/experts for the strengthening of the PMU.
2.
The provision of external auditing services for the purpose of carrying out the audits 
referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement.
3.
The provision of services for the purpose of carrying out a public information campaign 
to disseminate and foster consensus on the private sector participation process for the water and 
sanitation sector, such campaign to include newspaper and other media announcements, focus 
groups, and public meetings and workshops.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines), and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of 
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto, 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Page  21
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent per contract or less may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitation to bid for contracts during any calendar year of 
Project implementation, the proposed procurement plan for the Project for such year shall be 
included in the Annual Operating Plan and furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works during any such year shall be undertaken in accordance with the 
corresponding procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply to the contracts for goods to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part B of this 
Section I.  
(b)
With respect to the first contract to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Part C above, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior of the selection of the supplier, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of the contract, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply to 
the review by the Bank of any contract not governed by the provisions of paragraph 2 above.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Page  22
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997, and revised in September 1997 
and in January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this part A 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and the provisions of the following Parts of this Schedule.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Firms
(a)
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Parts A, C and E of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
(b)
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Regulatory framework services for under Part A of the Project may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
(c) Least-cost 
Selection
External auditing services under Part E of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
Page  23
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under Parts A, C and E of the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services under Parts A, C 
and E of the Project shall be undertaken in accordance with: (a) such selection plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association; and (b) the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to any contract fixed, or estimated, to cost the equivalent of 
$25,000  or more for the employment of one or more consulting firms procured under Part B 
above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 
2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms procured 
under Part C.1 above estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after such approval shall have 
been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Terms and Conditions of the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
1.
The MOU shall provide that the Borrower, through the Ministry, shall obtain rights 
adequate to protect the interests of the Association and the Borrower, including the right to:
(a)
require the Project Agencies: (i) to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, public health, sanitation, 
environmental,  regulatory and privatization practices, as the case may be; (ii) to assist in the 
carrying out of the Parts of the Project relevant to it with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound technical, financial, administrative, public health, sanitation, 
environmental, regulatory and privatization practices, as the case may be; and (iii) to maintain 
adequate records in each of these respects;
(b)
require that:
(i)
all services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
Page  24
procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and
(ii)
such services shall be used exclusively in carrying out of the respective 
Parts of 
the Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association, if the 
Association shall so request, the goods, sites, works and plants included in the Project, the 
operation thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
obtain all such information as the Association shall reasonably request relating 
to the foregoing and, if applicable, to the administration, operations and financial condition of 
the Project Agencies and to the benefits derived from the Project; and
(e)
suspend or terminate the right of a Project Agency to the use of the proceeds of 
the Credit upon failure by such Project Agency to perform any of its respective obligations under 
the MOU.
2.
The MOU shall provide that the Project Agencies shall:
(a)
appoint or designate an officer with qualifications, experience, functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association for purposes of helping to coordinate the 
implementation of the Parts of the Project relevant to them;
(b)
prepare and furnish to the PMU the information required for the reports referred 
to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement; and
(c)
coordinate with the PMU the selection of consultants to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit.
3.
The MOU shall require that the Project Agencies take all such action as shall be required 
to enable the Borrower to comply with the provisions of this Agreement related to the Parts of 
the Project relevant to them.
4.
In addition, the MOU in respect of WASCO shall provide that, until completion of the 
Project, WASCO shall: (a) maintain its operational and financial performance at levels not less 
than those prevailing as of December 15, 2001; (b) maintain a Managing Director, a General 
Manager and a Finance Manager, assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers, all with 
experience and qualifications which shall be at all times acceptable to the Association; and (c) 
ensure the Association ready access to WASCO staff at all levels and to its records. 
