                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR00001165




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                 (IBRD-7096, IDA-35920)




                                          ON A

                                     LOAN/CREDIT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.2 MILLION
                            (US$ 2.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                            TO

                                      SAINT LUCIA

                                          FOR A

            WATER SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT




                                      June 26, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective June 22, 2009)

                 Currency Unit = East Caribbean Dollars (XCD)
                                1.00 = US$ 0.372
                             US$ 1.00 = 2.685 XCD

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


BOA     Board of Directors
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CDB     Caribbean Development Bank
CIDA    Canadian International Development Agency
GoSL    Government of Saint Lucia
GPOBA   Global Partnership for Output Based Aid
IFC     International Finance Corporation
NWSC    National Water & Sewerage Commission
OECS    Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
PMU     Project Management Unit
PSP     Private Sector Participation
PPP     Public- Private Partnership
SEA     Sectoral Environmental Assessment
TAL     Technical Assistance Loan
UFW     Unaccounted for Water
WASA    Water & Sewerage Authority
WASCO   Water & Sewerage Company Inc.
WRMA    Water Resources Management Agency
WSS     Water and Sanitation Sector




             Vice President:            Pamela Cox
             Country Director:          Yvonne M. Tsikata
             Sector Manager:            Guang Zhe Chen
             Project Team Leader:       Patricia Lopez
             ICR Team Leader:           Patricia Lopez

                                                       Saint Lucia
                      Water Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project




                                                     CONTENTS



Datasheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring (if any)


1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................................... 1 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................................... 4 
3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................................. 7 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................................... 11 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................................................... 11 
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................................ 15 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ........................... 16 

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................................... 18 
Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................................. 20 
Annex 3. Context at Appraisal ...................................................................................................... 26 
Annex 4. Bidding Process to select a private operator.................................................................. 32 
Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............................. 34 
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR...................................... 36 
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents....................................................................................... 44 

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Water Sector Reform
Country:                St. Lucia              Project Name:          Technical Assistance
                                                                      Project
                                                                      IBRD-70960,IDA-
Project ID:             P070244                L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                      35920
ICR Date:               06/30/2009             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                    Borrower:
                                                                      ST. LUCIA
Original Total
                        USD 2.6M               Disbursed Amount:      USD 2.3M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Physical Development, Environment & Housing
Ministry of Finance
Ministry of Economic Affairs, Economic Planning, Investment and National Development
(MOEA)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Caribbean Development Bank


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process        Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/26/2001     Effectiveness:                          05/15/2002
Appraisal:             10/26/2001     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/20/2001     Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:              12/31/2005        12/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   High
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower               Ratings

Quality at Entry:       Moderately                                    Moderately
                        Unsatisfactory         Government:            Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory



                                               i

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower       Moderately
Performance:            Moderately SatisfactoryPerformance:           Unsatisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          Yes                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                              40                  50
Sewerage                                                       30                  20
Water supply                                                   30                  30


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Environmental policies and institutions                         25                 25
Other financial and private sector development                  25                 40
Pollution management and environmental health                    25                10
Regulation and competition policy                               25                 25


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                        David de Ferranti
Country Director:         Alan G. Carroll                   Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:           Guang Zhe Chen                    Danny M. Leipziger
Project Team Leader:      Patricia Lopez Martinez           Alexander E. Bakalian
ICR Team Leader:          Patricia Lopez Martinez
ICR Primary Author:       Patricia Lopez Martinez



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To prepare and transit the water company to private sector management within a sound
legal and regulatory framework


                                              ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target  Formally     Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from     Revised       Achieved at
                                               approval        Target     Completion or
                                              documents)       Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Private sector operator in place
                                          WASCO operated
                                          and managed by a              WASCO remains a
Value                                     private sector                corporatized public
quantitative orWASCO as a                 operator (newCo               body. Private
Qualitative)   corporatized public body established and
                                          shares suscribed              operator not in

                                          and PPP                       place

                                          documents signed)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/31/2005                    12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       PDO indicator was not achieved
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  The timely preparation and promulgation of regulations
                                                                        The Water &
                                                                        Sewerage No. 14 of
                                                                        2006 was enacted
                                          Water and                     on 15 May 2006
Value          Water and Sewerage         Sewerage Supply
quantitative orSupply Legislation and     Legislation and               The Regulations
Qualitative)   Regulations in need of
               review and approval        Regulations                   were published in
                                          ratified                      the Official
                                                                        Gazette in Dec
                                                                        2008.

Date achieved 12/31/2002                  06/30/2003                    12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       This PDO component was achieved with considerable delays
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target  Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from                   Achieved at
                                               approval       Revised     Completion or
                                              documents)   Target Values   Target Years




                                                iii

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                      Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                       IP             Disbursements
                                                                   (USD millions)
  1   05/07/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.00
  2   11/27/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.01
  3   04/30/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.37
  4   05/29/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.37
  5   09/29/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.46
  6   12/04/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.56
  7   06/03/2004        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.76
  8   11/29/2004       Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory                 0.87
  9   04/29/2005        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  1.32
  10  05/03/2006        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  1.77
  11  11/20/2006        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  2.00
  12  03/16/2007        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  2.03
  13  10/01/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           2.11
  14  06/02/2008   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           2.21
  15  11/24/2008   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           2.30



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         iv

v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1. At the time of appraisal in the year 2001, despite years of efforts by the Government of Saint
    Lucia (GoSL) and many partners to improve the performance of the public water company
    through conventional institutional strengthening programs and twinning arrangements, the
    utility performed poorly, with unreliable supply of water, low coverage of sewerage, poor
    financial performance, and low levels of capital investment. At the same time, the GoSL
    faced stringent fiscal constraints. GoSL had since 1998 initiated a series of reforms to put the
    water company on a path that would ensure long-term reliability. Among the actions taken
    were the transformation of the water utility from a state agency, the Water and Sewerage
    Authority (WASA) to a Government-owned corporation (Water and Sewerage Company Inc.,
    WASCO), the creation of a National Water and Sewerage Commission (NWSC) to regulate
    the sector and a Water Resources Management Agency (WRMA) to manage the natural
    resource, as well as introducing the "Water and Sewerage Act" to guide the reform process.
    See Annex 3 for more details on other aspects covered by the reform in its early stages.

2. However, many institutional and legal issues remained to be clarified:

     The regulatory office (NWSC) was in charge of sector-wide policy making: While the
         new Water and Sewerage Act established the NWSC as a regulator, it also granted the
         NWSC an unusual and what was judged undesirable authority to set sector-wide policies.
         Policy functions needed for full sector and corporate development needed to be allocated
         among the NWSC, the Ministry of Public Utilities, and other relevant government bodies.
         In addition, the NWSC faced conflict of interest under the contemporary act between its
         mandate to regulate potable water and manage water resources for all water users.

     The regulatory office should be independent of the Ministry of Public Utilities.
         Contemporarily, the Ministry of Public Utilities was responsible for the nomination of
         the Commissioners on co-terminus terms with the Government. Moreover, the
         Commissioners were selected to represent the various stakeholders and relevant
         Ministries. Efforts were needed to make the Commission as independent as possible
         from the Ministry and minimize the political interference in its activities by extending
         and staggering the mandates of the Commissioners.

     Lack of clarity about responsibilities in introducing private sector: The Water and
         Sewerage Act could be interpreted as allocating decision-making authority to the NWSC
         with regards to the introduction of private sector participation (PSP) in water supply and
         sewerage services, but this needed to be clarified specifying NWSC's roles in initiating
         private sector participation. It also needed to be clarified with respect to WASCO's
         ability of involving the private sector in the form of sub-concessioning, sub-licensing,
         and other forms of PSP.

     Lack of clarity regarding responsibilities in formulating and implementing tariff
         schemes: Specific rules and allocation of responsibilities for tariff setting,
         implementation and monitoring still needed to be defined. A regulatory regime for tariff
         setting that includes appropriate incentives for improving operating efficiency of




                                                 1

        WASCO (tariff setting regimes tied to specific performance targets) and for promoting
        consumption efficiency still needed to be developed.

     The roles and responsibilities of the operator (WASCO) were not well defined in the
        Water and Sewerage Act. Especially unclear were the responsibilities of WASCO
        regarding the scope of service provision, water conservation, and tariff setting were
        unclear.

3. It was against this backdrop that the project was formulated. It was financed by the World
    Bank and the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) on parallel financing basis. The Bank-
    financed components aimed at transferring the management of WASCO to a private operator
    within a sound regulatory framework. The objectives of the CDB-financed project were to
    ensure that the operational reliability of the water supply and sewerage networks did not
    deteriorate any further and that WASCO's staff skills were improved in the transition period
    for better integration in the new operational environment.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

4. The development objective of the project was two-fold: (i) transferring the national water
    company to private sector management, and (ii) establishing a sound legal and regulatory
    framework for the water sector. The key performance indicators agreed with the GoSL to
    monitor the achievement of the development objective were:

     The timely preparation and promulgation of regulations;
     The favorable assessment from investment bank and financial consultants on WASCO;
     The outcome of the PSP transaction (i.e. a private operator in place); and
     The timely decision making of the regulatory agency with respect to service regulation.

5. The PAD also incorporated Key Performance Indicators for expected project Outputs, mainly
    referring to the timeliness of the regulations, capacity building of WASCO, the attractiveness
    of WASCO to the private sector, adequate project management and public information, and
    investment in key water infrastructure. See section 3 and Annex 2 for a more detailed
    discussion on outcomes/outputs and indicators.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

N/A

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

6. The expected benefits of the project were continued and improved operating efficiency,
    quality and reliability of the water supply in the country with a private operator involved in
    the operations and during the transition phase, as well as increased access to the services and
    the mobilization of funding for the sector. The population of Saint Lucia, as the universe
    covered by WASCO, would be the beneficiaries of the project.

1.5 Original Components

7. The project financed the following three components (see more details on each component in
    Annex 2):



                                                 2

    1) Technical assistance for strengthening the regulatory and environmental framework
         (estimated at US$0.58 million).
    2) Technical assistance for carrying out the private sector transaction (estimated at US$0.88
         million).
    3) Project management and public information and dissemination campaign (estimated at
         US$0.85 million).

    In parallel, the CDB approved a US$ 5.27 million (the original CDB loan was for US$4.54
    and an additional US$0.73 million were approved in October 2002 to facilitate GoSL's
    contribution) to finance the following:

    1) Technical assistance for the strengthening of WASCO 's internal systems (estimated at
         US$0.5 million).
    2) Urgently needed investments and asset rehabilitation (estimated at US$4.77million).

1.6 Revised Components
N/A

1.7 Other significant changes

8. The project had three minor Loan/Credit amendments in the course of its implementation and
    three extensions that widened its closing date by a total of thirty six months. The first loan
    amendment, in May 2003, was made to reflect changes in the entity in charge of project
    implementation and advance the implementation of the feasibility study for PSP; a second
    one took place in July 2004 to re-allocate funds amongst categories of disbursements and a
    third one in May 2005 to establish the oversight of the project at the Ministry of Finance,
    extend the project closing date and include additional studies for financing under the project.
    The last and most substantial of the changes introduced by the third credit amendments was
    the reduction of disbursement conditions for the procurement of a consultant firm to advise
    on the PSP transactions to one: the presentation to Parliament of new Water and Sewerage
    Legislation1.

9. None of the amendments implied a change in indicators/targets, components or institutional
    arrangements (other than changes in the Ministry responsible for oversight of the project as
    agreed with the Borrower).

10. In light of delays in the bidding process to select the private operator (due to slow decision
    making given significant political changes during 2007/2008) the GoSL requested in October
    2008, an additional extension of the project closing date. The Bank decided not to extend the
    project a fourth time given its lengthened implementation (almost 8 years), the continued
    uncertainty on the outcome of the PSP transaction, and the small funds remaining
    uncommitted under the loan (US$255,000).




1The original PAD and Credit Agreement included a number of additional measures, including starting
capacity building measures and formulation of operating license and a training program for the regulator, as
disbursement conditions for this component.




                                                   3

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

11. The high-level dialogue with sector authorities and the water utility during project
    preparation and appraisal, and the review of alternatives for improved operational efficiency
    and managerial capability in WASCO at the time of project design concluded that a deeper
    form of PSP, such as a concession/equity participation arrangement, was the best way to go
    to provide a sustainable and irreversible transformation of the sector (versus a management
    contract or direct technical assistance which was funded under the previous Bank loan with
    little results). This model was expected to address the issue of capital investment needs and
    reduce the risk of reverting to the "old ways of doing things"2, as was the case after the failed
    twinning experience in the 1980s with a foreign operator. A number of actions undertaken by
    the GoSL (including the corporatization of WASA into WASCO) before project appraisal
    (see Annex 3) indicated its apparent commitment to improve sector performance by
    introducing a more solid legal and regulatory framework and PSP. The project would finance
    the technical assistance required to make this happen and would in parallel provide funds to
    finance urgently needed works.       The project incorporated lessons learnt from relevant
    projects in the Caribbean and with PSP.

2.2 Implementation

12. Three distinct phases can be identified during the implementation of this Technical
    Assistance Loan (TAL):

13. From approval in December 2001 to mid- 2005: Low-level of GoSL involvement and
    shifting market forces: During the first year of project implementation, a Project
    Management Unit (PMU) was established under what was then the Ministry of Planning,
    Development, Environment & Housing, later called the Ministry of Physical Development,
    Environment & Housing as different functions were transferred to the Ministry of Finance
    ministries, and the PMU kept housed under the Ministry of Physical Development. Project
    effectiveness was delayed until May 2002 and disbursement conditions were not met for
    almost until October 2002, given delays in enacting the Water Law and formalizing
    WASCo's operating license and the late submission of WASCO's audit to the Bank. After
    effectiveness the project entered into a period of low government involvement, without much
    participation from high-level Government officials and Cabinet members as would be
    expected in a complex and deep reform such as the planned concessioning of the national
    water utility. There appears to have been little involvement from the Minister of Public
    Utilities, the Prime Minister (who also serves as the Minister of Finance), the Minister of
    Planning or other senior cabinet officials during this period. The inactivity and low
    involvement lasted three years, and by 2005, most of the preliminary studies on both the PSP
    side and the regulatory side were not completed, the sector law had not been presented to
    Parliament, and no decisions had been taken on the approach or timetable for the transaction.

14. Furthermore, the draft law and the PSP feasibility study emphasized a form of PSP ­namely
    a full concession ­ that was no longer of interest to major sector investors. Project design
    assumed investor interest in ­ and GoSL commitment to ­ a reform strategy based on market



2Project Appraisal Document, December 2001


                                                 4

     forces in play during the nineties, when privatization was sweeping the region as the answer
     to solve access and operational deficiencies in service provision as well as financing
     constraints in infrastructure investment. These market forces changed considerably during
     the early years of the project's effectiveness3 and it took some time for both the Bank and the
     GoSL to adjust their thinking and expectations to this new reality.

15. 2005-2006: Re-engagement: A fresh dialogue was initiated between the Bank team and the
     authorities in 2005 to explore how the course of the reform TAL could be reversed. It
     became clear that the GoSL was unable to focus on the politically complex task of passing a
     new sector law and engaging in a PSP for the national utility while the more pressing needs
     of water delivery were not being met. If the Bank could help to find a short term solution to
     the water shortages and could adopt a more flexible approach to PSP under the project, the
     GoSL would be in a position to focus on the sustainability of the utility and move the reform
     agenda forward. Between mid 2005-mid 2006, the Bank prepared and approved the Water
     Supply Infrastructure Improvement Project that has alleviated the water shortages that
     plagued the North of Saint Lucia. The GoSL submitted to Parliament and passed the new
     Water Sector Law, completed its PSP strategy as a Public-Private Partnership (PPP), had the
     rules and regulations for the sector completed and approved by Cabinet, agreed upon the PSP
     structure and approach and drafted a new water license. As it became increasingly clear by
     summer 2006 that elections would be close, progress in the last stages of the reform came to
     a halt, and after much deliberation and consultation with potential investors the Bank team
     agreed that it would be better to wait until after elections to carry out the PSP transaction.

16. 2006- to date: Second phase of the reform and failure to award private contract for the PPP:
     A new Government took office after the 2006 election. Early attempts to re-establish
     communications regarding water sector policy failed, in part due to the internal re-
     organization and restructuring of government agencies, including the creation of a Ministry
     of Economic Affairs, Economic Planning, National Development and Public Service, which
     now coordinated many planning activities and donor relations previously spread across
     several public agencies. The Bank was finally able to engage the new GoSL in discussions
     on the objectives of the reform and the status of the TAL. The GoSL expressed its
     commitment to the reform and involving a private operator in the management and
     investment for the sector, and to implementing regulatory arrangements consistent with the
     objectives of the TAL reform program.

17. Since then, a series of events significantly affected the timely implementation of the bidding
     process to select a private operator for the PPP transaction. The most significant perhaps is
     that in late 2007, the recently elected Prime Minister Sir John Compton suffered a series of
     strokes and subsequently died. The GoSL tried to move forward with the water reform under
     the guidance of the Minister of Economy--the central actor in the Administration.
     Subsequently the GoSL went through a protracted crisis of confidence with Cabinet
     members resigning from the party and reducing the majority in Parliament to one vote. In
     May 2008, the Minister of Economy was forced to resign amidst strong political pressure. A
     series of further resignations from key actors in the reform process and continued internal
     restructuring coupled with a growing opposition to the PPP transaction from civil society



3According to the PPI Database, private commitments to the Latin America and the Caribbean region
dropped from US$6.0 billion in 1999 to US$234 million in 2003. However, the number of water PSP
projects actually increased, reflecting a growing number of modest investments from regional operators
willing to partner with public enterprises and agencies.


                                                      5

    groups meant further delays in decision making. While the new GoSL was still committed to
    undertaking the reform, the apparent lack of political stability inevitably impacted the
    timeframe.

18. Meanwhile, the transaction advisor, Banco Santander (financed from this loan and contracted
    by the previous administration), renounced their contract in 2007, largely because of a
    realignment of their strategic priorities By a Cabinet decision of October 2007, the GoSL
    asked the International Finance Corporation Infrastructure Advisory Services (IFC) to
    replace Banco Santander. IFC advised the GoSL in the final structuring of the transaction as
    a public-private partnership and managing of a bidding process to select a private operator,
    which started in April 2008. The PSP structure was adjusted from the originally proposed
    concession to minimize equity requirement from a private operator in order to entice more
    local or regional investors, which had been a lesson learned from other projects in the region.
    Despite many delays in the bidding process and last-minute changes to the structure, three
    technical bids4 were submitted on October 15, 2008, from international operators to enter
    into a PPP arrangement with the GoSL, of which two were considered responsive. The
    agreed calendar for the transaction would have had the PPP established in the following two
    months and the new company was to start operations as early as January 2009.

19. After the opening of the financial bids in December 10, 2008, the process stalled. One of the
    two evaluated bids had arrived after the time for presentation of the bids specified in the
    bidding documents, and the Central Tender Board had decided that this was a minor
    technical issue (which according to the legal opinion received by the GoSL from the legal
    transaction was within their jurisdiction to waive). The GoSL later considered5 that they
    could not be sure that GoSL would be completely safe on legal grounds from a challenge by
    the losing bidder, if the bid were awarded to the late (and winning) bidder and decided to
    abort the process altogether. This crisis further revealed a more profound lack of consensus
    amongst key cabinet members regarding the PPP structure and a desire to further revisit
    some aspects of it (e.g. the assumption of WASCO's existing debt by the GoSL). After
    substantial internal consultations, the GoSL finally informed both bidders in the water
    privatization that they were terminating the process on March 13, 2009.

20. Project ratings in Bank ISRs were kept within the satisfactory range and downgraded toward
    the middle of its life when key decisions at the political level and steps in the PSP process
    were continuously being delayed. The moderately satisfactory rating introduced in 2006 is
    considered more appropriate given the increased risks due to political instability. It should be
    noted however that the moderately satisfactory ISR rating towards project closure
    (November 2008) reflected the expectation and highly likelihood (as per the successful
    bidding process underway) that the PSP transaction would reach closure

21. Details on progress achieved under the CDB financed project can be found in Annex 2.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

22. The PAD M&E framework is considered comprehensive and adequate overall in terms of
    allowing monitoring of progress towards achieving the PDO and other project outputs.


4The bidders were Veolia, Suez and Cascal. The bid submitted by Veolia was admittedly non-compliant
with the bidding documents, but submitted as an alternative for consideration. It was considered non-
responsive and not evaluated by the Committee.
5Upon advice given by Saint Lucia's Attorney General (AG).


                                                    6

    Regarding the outputs per component, the framework includes a broad list of indicators to
    monitor progress and achievement.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

23. As a TAL, the project was rated a category B project triggering only the environmental
    assessment safeguard policy. The guidelines and impact assessment procedures were written
    into the private sector operation contract and they would have been monitored by the
    appropriate environmental agencies. A sectoral environmental assessment (SEA) was also
    completed during project preparation which identified a number of legislative, institutional
    and environmental issues related to the water sector that would be addressed by the project.
    For more detail on these issues see Annex 2.

24. A social assessment was also undertaken during project preparation. In the study, surveys
    and focus groups were carried out. All key stakeholders in the project were consulted: a) the
    residential water customers, b) the tourism industry (the hotel association), c) private sector,
    and d) associations, employees unions and community-based organizations representing the
    poor customers. The PAD suggested the setting-up of a project steering committee with
    sector stakeholders to accompany the reform process and work with the transaction advisors
    to increase transparency and ownership of the reform and PSP process. However this
    committee was not consistently supported by the authorities and has not really played a
    major role during project implementation.

25. The project closed with satisfactory ratings for financial management and fiduciary
    compliance as per a standalone supervision mission undertaken in November 2008. No
    audits or FMRs were pending and audit reports were submitted to the Bank were found to be
    in compliance.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

26. Following the failure to select a private operator from the recent bidding process, the GoSL
    has decided to set up a committee comprised of representatives from the Ministry of Finance
    (MoF) and Ministry of Communications, Works, Transport and Public Utilities (MoU) to
    look at the different options and potential service models for WASCO's management going
    forward, including any possible involvement of the private sector6. The authorities have also
    indicated that they would like to involve the Bank and the IFC and other development
    partners in this assessment process.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

27. The project has spanned two Country Assistance Strategies (CASs) periods since its approval
    in 2001, and its objectives have remained relevant to both Bank and country priorities. See
    Annex 3 for more details on specific CAS objectives and consistency of the TAL with them.




6Both of the operators that participated in the recent bidding process have expressed continued interest and
commitment to entering in a public-private partnership with GoSL.


                                                       7

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

28. The project's monitoring framework in the PAD included four key performance indicators to
     track achievement of the PDO. The following table presents these and their status at the end
     of May 2009.

     PDO Indicators (from PAD)

      PDO                Indicator                              Achievement
      To prepare and     Favorable assessment from              It was achieved prior to launching the
      transit the        investment bank and financial          bidding process for selecting a private
      water company      consultants on WASCO                   operator in April 2008
      to private
      sector             The outcome of the PSP transaction     Not achieved
      management         (ie a private operator in place)
      within a sound
      legal and          The timely preparation and             It was achieved within the extensions

      regulatory         promulgation of regulations            to the closing date granted to the

      framework                                                 project


                         The timely decision making of the      Not achieved. Although the regulatory
                         regulatory agency with respect to      agency has been established and the
                         service regulation                     commissioners appointed, they have
                                                                only just very recently started meeting
                                                                and require training to be able to
                                                                effectively regulate the services

29. The following table summarizes expected outputs for the three project components financed
     by the TAL and progress on all of the indicators included in the PAD. The complete
     monitoring framework for both the CDB and Bank components is included in Annex 2.

                             Project Output and Indicators per component

Component        Main Output        Indicator            Date/Goals achieved by Comments/Remarks
                 Expected
Strengthening    Regulatory         Water Supply         The Water & Sewerage       This component of the
the regulatory   Commission         Legislation and      No. 14 of 2006 was         development objective
and              and its staff set  regulations ratified enacted on 15 May 2006 was accomplished but
environmental     up and            by 2003                                         with much delay
framework        functioning                             The Regulations were
                                                         published in the Official
                                                         Gazette in Dec 2008.



Support for the  The                Sound Divestiture    Divestiture Plan           This output was
Private Sector   attractiveness of Plan Developed by developed in 2005 and          achieved but the
Transaction      WASCO to the       2003                 updated in 2008;           transaction did not
                 private sector is                                                  reach completion
                 made clear and
                 the transaction is
                 facilitated
                                    At least 3 private   September 30, 2008: Ten
                                    sector companies     private companies
                                    present bids         purchased bidding



                                                      8

Component        Main Output       Indicator             Date/Goals achieved by Comments/Remarks
                 Expected
                                                        documents. Three
                                                        companies submitted bids
                                  Procurement            Bidding documents were
                                   process is efficient, clear and process was
                                   competitive and       competitive. Process was
                                   transparent           stalled due to a late
                                                         submission and differing
                                                         opinions on the legal
                                                         grounds to waive it.

                                  Contract with          PPP documents were not
                                   private sector        signed
                                   operator signed
Project          The management 100% adherence to Achieved with variable
management and of the project is procurement             degrees of quality and
public           effective and the procedures            timeliness
information and public informed
dissemination    of the private    No greater than 75
campaign         sector            days variance in      Achieved
                 participation     planned vs actual
                 transaction
                 process
                                  Timely auditing of     Achieved
                                   accounts

                                   70% of the            December 31, 2007:      Exit survey to
                                   population informed Unknown                   determine percentage
                                   of benefits of                                was not conducted
                                   private
                                   sector participation
                                   in the water sector




3.3 Efficiency

30. A detailed cost benefit and financial analysis of the TAL components undertaken at appraisal
     indicated that the project was financially and economically viable, considering with and
     without project scenarios with the incremental costs and benefits associated with the
     rehabilitation investments, the improvement of WASCO's human resources and systems, and
     the strengthening of the sector regulatory framework. The PAD also included a detailed
     financial assessment of WASCO projecting its financial situation with and without private
     sector management scenarios. An updated cost-benefit analysis is not considered relevant for
     the WB financed components, which mainly financed technical assistance (studies, reports,
     and transaction advisory services) with difficult to measure and intangible benefits.




                                                     9

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

    Overall Outcome Rating: Unsatisfactory

31. The project arguably did not achieve its two-fold PDO objectives, the preparation of a sound
    legal and regulatory framework and the PSP transaction. Whilst the promulgated legal and
    regulatory framework would contribute to the performance and sustainability of the water
    sector, facilitate future private sector involvement and attract potential investors, the new law
    was still not enforced by project closure, and further steps will need to be completed so the
    approved legal and regulatory frameworks can effectively be applied. A lot of ground
    remains to be covered in terms of strengthening the capacity of the regulator to achieve
    impartial regulatory oversight and adequate performance and decision making.

32. With regards to the objective of preparing and transiting the company to private sector
    management, whilst WASCO did receive a favorable assessment from the transaction
    advisors, and the interest from operators confirmed the attractiveness of the operation, the
    effective transfer to the private sector did not materialize during the life of the project in spite
    of three extensions of the closing date, and WASCO's position has significantly deteriorated
    form the time of appraisal to date. Furthermore, the ultimate lack of consensus within the
    current GoSL and other stakeholders in the country on the PPP as the management model for
    the sector questions the relevance of this PDO today. Though the project did achieve the
    target value for some output indicators for the Bank financed components, and all critical
    capital works under the CDB project ­ with the exception of the Leak Detection Program -
    were completed, albeit with major delays, little progress was achieved in strengthening
    WASCO's internal systems and improving the skills of staff. Given the major shortcomings
    described and the high risk to the development objective, the overall outcome rating is
    considered to be Unsatisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

33. Based on affordability and willingness to pay for water and sewerage services of poor
    segments of the population, the project also sought to investigate how PSP would benefit the
    poor and to ensure that incentives for serving the poor can properly factored in the PSP
    contracts. This was achieved during the TAL project implementation through extensive
    coordination with the Global Partnership on Output Based Aid (GPOBA) to secure a US$1.6
    million grant to be invested in connections of poor households to the water service.
    Following a review of the project structure and implementation options undertaken during
    October 2008 ­ January 2009 in coordination with the GoSL, this grant was ready to be
    negotiated with the private operator once the PPP was established (which at project closure
    was expected for January 2009).

(b) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

34. The perception of a failed PSP transaction could affect the country's credibility in the market
    in terms of attracting local, regional and international investment. It will also hamper the
    sustainability of the water sector and result in a deterioration of WASCO considering its
    present structure and financial and operational situation. While the project was focused on St.
    Lucia, it was intended to serve as a pilot for the water sector reform in the Organization of
    Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) region. Many of the OECS countries face similar issues
    with regard to the performance of their water utilities. It was also intended to provide a


                                                  10

    platform for the possible preparation of a regional regulatory framework which could, over
    time, form the basis for folding many of the country-specific regulatory functions into a
    multi-sector and possibly a multi-country regulatory entity. Though this high-level objective
    is still possible (the regulatory framework approved by Parliament is indeed very
    comprehensive and could serve as a good model), much remains to be done with regards to
    its practical implementation for these efforts to be consolidated. The preparation for the PPP
    transaction, public outreach campaigns and discussions with WASCO's employees unions
    undertaken throughout the years have also raised expectations and uncertainties within the
    public and WASCO' staff about the future management of the sector that will need to be
    addressed by the GoSL.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

35. A survey conducted among St. Lucians in 2004, during project implementation, showed that
    65% of the respondents expected service to improve with private sector participation in the
    sector.   The survey revealed that 85% of St. Lucians preferred local private sector
    involvement over foreign private sector involvement. The survey also revealed that 55% of
    respondents indicated that they were definitely not willing to pay more for water under a
    private sector modality which contrasted with only 15% indicating that they would definitely
    be willing to pay more, while 9% indicated that they would probably pay more for their
    water service. No beneficiary surveys were conducted as part of this ICR preparation.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Risk Rating: High

36. The risk of the project not maintaining its only partially achieved development outcomes is
    considered high at the time of writing this ICR. With regard to the legal and regulatory
    framework, financial and technical support to the NWSC and o the WRMA agencies must be
    secured for these bodies to become operational, apply the legislation, and be able to
    meaningfully contribute to sector development. With regards to the failed PSP transaction
    and PPP structure, there is a risk of losing achieved momentum in structuring a viable
    operation and operator's interest if this model is finally confirmed as the desired option by
    the GoSL. With regards to WASCO's situation and sustainability of service provision, a
    decision for strengthening current managerial and investment capability of WASCO is
    pressing. Furthermore, the lack of focus on operational and financial improvements over the
    last few years has meant a deteriorating situation of the utility which puts at risk the
    sustainability of other investments and service provision overall.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

37. The project objective was consistent with the Bank's assistance strategy, sector practice and
    GoSL objectives at the time of appraisal and approval. During preparation, the Bank team
    took into account the adequacy of project design and applied good practices to all major
    relevant aspects, such as technical, financial, economic, institutional and safeguards and



                                                11

    fiduciary issues. The design incorporated lessons learned from past operations supported by
    the Bank in Saint Lucia and in the sector and with PSP. Sound implementation arrangements
    were proposed for the execution phase. The project correctly diagnosed WASCO's
    operational and managerial deficiencies and proposed a viable way forward which reflected
    the thinking of the authorities and the Bank at the time.

38. However, with hindsight it is considered that the design was too optimistic in its assessments
    of risks and GoSL ownership and commitment. It overestimated the level of support for a
    PSP that could be generated in the country within a broader spectrum of political and social
    stakeholders and therefore the implementation period required. It underestimated the risk of
    a lack of political commitment to the PSP immediately after Project approval, once key
    actors within the GoSL changed, and later on with the new Administration when the
    opposition came to power. It was also too ambitious in its initial expectations from the
    market of international operators, and did not address the risk of the lack of operator interest
    in the transaction under the terms initially expected by the Bank and the GoSL, which would
    affect the general expectations for service improvement and sector investments. Given the
    impact that all these risks had in the implementation delays and in the ultimate unsatisfactory
    outcome, and the apparent reduced relevance of the PDO in the context of GoSL's priorities
    today, the quality at entry is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

39. Bank's supervision went through different stages during the implementation. For the first
    few years, the Bank was slow to respond to changes in the market and in taking early action
    with regards to the low involvement of the GoSL. Perhaps because of the Bank's continued
    commitment to earlier approaches of PSP, it continued to assume that a large concessionaire
    could be found to assume all commercial risk of the utility and finance all of the investment
    needs. Throughout, there was too much focus on the PSP, as it was expected that it would
    take care of many of the utility's problems, and less on progress on the institutional side.

40. After 2005, the Bank team at the time displayed proactivity in re-engaging the authorities in
    a meaningful dialogue, adapting the project to the changing environment and keeping the
    project objectives on track, first with the existing GoSL and then with the new administration
    after the 2006 elections. The Bank team understood the new administration's needs and
    standpoints and proactively worked on engaging former and current authorities and other
    stakeholders in the reform process. When it became clear that there were priorities for the
    GoSL in the sector, the Bank approved financing for targeted investments under a new
    project prepared in 1004/2005 and executed during 2006/2007 (the Water Supply
    Infrastructure Improvement Project) to meet service goals and re-engaged the GoSL in policy
    dialogue. Supervision missions were consistently carried out at least twice a year and
    reporting was frequent and candid throughout. Missions were well-staffed, and included
    fiduciary specialists.

41. The Bank team is commended for its work in generating strong support from stakeholders at
    WASCO ­ including management and unions. The IFC team as transaction advisors
    managed the bidding process successfully to attract private operator interest in the midst of a
    global financial crisis and offers were received from two of the world's largest and most
    renowned water sector operators. The transaction team accommodated the new GoSL's
    requests for changes in the PPP structure during the bidding process. In the very final stages



                                                 12

    of the transaction process, it is considered that both the Bank and IFC teams should have
    relied less on the signals of commitment given by the fulfilling of the different stages in the
    bidding process and other formal statements as showing full GoSL ownership for the PPP,
    and undertaken more thorough consultations within a broader group of high-level GoSL
    officials in Cabinet to ascertain the real level of consensus and commitment to enter into a
    PPP arrangement. Though this would not have guaranteed a final award for a PPP, it would
    have contributed to better gauging the risks of a failed transaction at the last minute.

42. Despite the shortcomings in the Bank's identification of opportunities and resolution of
    threats during the early years of project implementation and in the final transaction process, a
    Moderately Satisfactory rating is considered appropriate given the proactive and successful
    role that the task team at the time played in engaging the former and new GoSL in the reform,
    and the support given to the process through frequent and thorough technical advice
    throughout project implementation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

43. Though, as discussed above, Bank Performance in supervision has been mixed throughout
    the project's life, in general it is considered that the Bank provided strong technical support
    and tried tirelessly to work with the GoSL towards the agreed goal of introducing PSP and
    regulation in the water sector, as a means to ultimately improve the water and sanitation
    services (WSS) and living conditions of the population of Saint Lucia. Though the PSP goal
    arguably does not currently have full consensus and support from the GoSL, it is still
    considered to be a viable solution for the development of WSS and achieve a well
    performing sector, and the solid technical and financial bids received from two international
    operators indicate that the bidding confirm this. Taking these factors into consideration,
    Bank performance overall is rated moderately satisfactory.

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

44. GoSL ownership and commitment to achieving the PDO wavered considerably throughout
    the project history and overall it is considered that it falls short on a number of criteria to rate
    it within the satisfactory range. The resolution of implementation issues and establishing an
    enabling environment for a successful reform process were particularly untimely.

45. Within the last semester of 2008, the GoSL reached agreement about the minimum
    capitalization of NewCo (the potentially new national water company), launched a public
    communication campaign. It also appointed key staff at the Water Resources Management
    Agency and Water Commission, it approved the amendment to the New Water Act and
    completed and published the Act regulations, amongst other key steps in the reform process.
    Progress on the above was slow and somewhat cumbersome, and the process experienced




                                                  13

     several delays and changes in the deadline for submission of bids. Despite being
     promulgated, the new regulatory framework remained unenforced by the end of the project7.

46. Although the lack of focus in the reform process is partly explained by political uncertainties
     in the country during the period, several internal re-organizations, and a change of
     government in 2006, the GoSL could have shown more proactivity in committing to the
     reform by actively engaging and pursuing the transaction, or by making a timely proposal to
     the Bank/transaction advisors to reformulate project focus and structure. A successful
     conclusion of the bidding process to select a private operator would have secured financing
     for the sector from different private sources estimated in the amount of US$15 million,
     including private international and local investment, a US$1.5 million GPOBA grant and a
     US$3.5 million IFC loan. Given these significant shortcomings, GoSL performance is rated
     moderately unsatisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

     Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

47. Project oversight was led by four (4) different Ministries during project Implementation. The
     implementing agency was initially the Ministry of Planning, Development, Environment &
     Housing, later called the Ministry of Physical Development, Environment & Housing as
     different functions were transferred to the Ministry of Finance. Following years of slow
     progress, it was considered by the Bank and GoSL at the time that the project could progress
     at a faster rate if it were under the Ministry of Finance, since this Ministry comes under the
     purview of the Prime Minister. With the new Administration in December 2006, the
     Implementing Agency became the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Economic Planning,
     Investment & National Development . In 2007, an inter-ministerial Committee was
                                                 8

     established by Cabinet resolution to oversee the implementation of the reform process, and it
     was agreed that the Minister of Communications, Works, Transport & Public Utilities would
     lead it.

48. These changes have obviously impacted the efficiency of the operation as it has frequently
     implied a duplication of efforts and repetition of tasks. The creation of a strong PMU and the
     use of independent experts to support the implementation envisaged by the PAD was not
     fully implemented. The project PMU set up within the Ministry of Planning in its early
     stages lacked the sufficient capacity and this brought delays in satisfying loan conditions and
     in adequately addressing the range of implementation issues in a timely and cost effective
     manner. Although a qualified and dedicated Project Coordinator was hired, who provided
     professional project management and oversight through project closure and has provided
     valuable stability and institutional memory throughout, the lack of additional human
     resources and little involvement from WASCO on technical issues has hindered the
     timeliness in implementing activities under specific components and overall. Given the
     mentioned shortcomings, performance is rated moderately satisfactory.




7An example of it is the non adjustment of the tariffs from the 2001 levels by January 2009.
8With Senator Ausbert d'Auvergne as the Minister, who became a central actor in the Administration after
the death of the Prime Minister in 1997 and was ultimately forced to resign amidst strong political pressure
in May 1998.


                                                     14

    (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

    Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

49. As discussed GoSL's commitment has been uneven throughout project implementation, it is
    considered that the Government could have been more forthcoming in its communications
    with the Bank and transaction advisor with regards to any reservations over the PPP model,
    before or during the bidding process to select a private operator, and could have ensured
    more timely and transparent decision making. Given the impact that these shortcomings
    ultimately had in the overall project outcome, overall performance is rated moderately
    unsatisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

The following are considered lessons learned which can be of use in the design and
implementation of future projects:

50. The project PDO was formulated at a time when PSP-oriented reform was considered the
    main tool for improving utility performance and sector reform. At that time, many projects in
    the WSS sector included PSP as a development objective, with the ultimate involvement of
    the private sector as a key indicator for success. This raises an issue with this particular
    generation of projects that can be considered in the future design of projects seeking to
    involve the private sector in its implementation, particularly in TALs: Government
    ownership and commitment to a specific service provision model ­ unless there is strong
    consensus and leadership from the onset- cannot be guaranteed during political changes
    within a reasonable project implementation period of 5 years, and experience shows that
    deep sector reforms can take much longer to mature (in this case, it took eight years to just
    reach the point of contract award, after many efforts and different stages of support). In this
    context, PDOs for Technical Assistance projects could be formulated more in line with
    achievable goals within the control of the project (fostering stakeholder support, providing
    solid analytical and technical tools and studies, and others), and a programmatic approach to
    support sector reform could also be considered.

51. At the point of writing this ICR, it is unclear whether to what extend the ultimate decision by
    the GoSL to abort the recent bidding process to select a private operator was more based in
    the fear of legal action from one of the bidders, or in a more fundamental lack of consensus
    and support for the PPP within the entire Cabinet. With hindsight, in the very final stages of
    the transaction process, it is considered that both the Bank and IFC teams should have relied
   less on the signals of commitment given by the fulfilling of the different stages in the bidding
   process and other formal statements as showing full GoSL ownership for the PPP, and
   undertaken more thorough consultations within a broader group of high-level GoSL officials
   in Cabinet to ascertain the real level of consensus and commitment to enter into a PPP
   arrangement. Though this would not have guaranteed a final award for a PPP, it would have
   contributed to better gauging the risks of a failed transaction at the last minute as well as
   understanding the ultimate reasons for the lack of support. As for the GoSL, it could have
   ensured a more open and transparent communication with the Bank and transaction advisors
   regarding any reservations and need of advice regarding the PSP process, as the decision to
   abandon it has meant amongst others the loss of access to US$15 million investments for the
   development of sector from different sources, as well as jeopardized the sustainability of the
   services in the short-term.



                                                 15

52. Another lesson learned for future project design is to try to maximize the opportunity to
    influence sector reform by establishing meaningful links with investment projects. Whilst in
    this case, the approval of the Bank's Water Sector Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project in
    2005 initially fostered a re-engagement of the dialogue, it could be argued that it perhaps
    reduced the urgency for investments and thus the incentive for reforming the broader model
    for service provision, which would ultimately guarantee the sustainability of the sector.

53. The involvement of the private sector in the management and equity of WASCO required
    broad consensus among the ruling party, the opposition and representatives of civil society.
    Without this broad agreement, a new administration could easily disagree with the policy.
    Although the project managed to generate support in WASCO at the management and staff
    levels, including the unions, all policy related studies should have been discussed with the
    opposition and consulted with relevant stakeholders. Although during the implementation
    both the Bank and the GoSL renewed efforts at different points to consult and involve sector
    stakeholders and key decision makers, this was done inconsistently throughout. In addition,
    the project did not anticipate and prepare for the activities of vocal civil society groups that
    have been increasingly promoting an anti PSP debate, and public support was partially lost as
    a result toward the end of the project.

54. The TAL design incorporated important recommendations based on lessons learned from
    other projects: the need for operational improvements prior to the transfer to the private
    sector, strong political commitment from top levels of GoSL and wide support at the base
    and a strong PMU. These lessons were integrated in the technical assistance component to
    strengthen the internal systems of WASCO financed by the CDB, and in component 5 of the
    Bank financed project, which included a communications and dissemination campaign.
    However, these components did not achieve much progress during project implementation,
    perhaps due to the focus of efforts on the PSP transaction, but would have contributed to
    providing lasting benefits by ensuring necessary investments in managerial and institutional
    improvement as well as stakeholder support for the reform process.

55. Greater coordination or dialogue between the World Bank and the CDB during project
    supervision may have improved project outcomes and perhaps corrected to some degree
    implementation difficulties.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

56. The ICR report has benefited from extensive input and comments from the Project
    Coordinator9 from January 2002 to Project Closure in December 2008, who has remained
    involved with the reform process thereafter and has led the preparation of a final report on
    the implementation of the Bank and CDB's projects for the GoSL. An executive summary of
    this report is included in Annex 6 in agreement with the Ministry of Finance as the Borrower
    representative.




9Mr. Aloysious Barthelmy.




                                                16

(b) Other partners and stakeholders

57. The ICR report was shared in draft with the Caribbean Development Bank through its
    current responsible officer. The CDB appreciated the opportunity to provide comments as
    well as the candidness of the draft ICR report and provided useful remarks and clarifications
    that have been reflected in the document.




                                              17

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

Category              Category                  Allocation estimate    Disbursed (USD           Percentage of
                      Description               (USD millions)         millions)                Appraisal
                                                IBRD    IDA     Tot.   IBRD     IDA      Tot.
                                                        10

1                     Consultants'              0.42    0.803   1.223  0.314    0.880    1.194  97%
                      studies and
                      services in respect
                      of parts A and E.1
                      of the project
2A                    Consultants'              0.3     0.809   1.109  0.278    0.737    1.015  92%
                      studies and
                      services in respect
                      of parts C.1, C.3
                      and E.3 of the
                      Project
2B                    Consultants'              0.02    0.046   0.066  0.045    0.038    0.083  126%
                      services in respect
                      of part E.2
                      (external audits) of
                      the project
2C                    Consultants'              0.435   0       0.435  0.098    0        0.098  23%
                      studies and
                      services in respect
                      to part C.2 of the
                      project
3                     Goods                     0.112   0.037   0.149  0        0.035    0.035  24%
4                     Unallocated               0       0       0      0        0        0      N/A
DA-A                  Designated                0       0       0      0.01     0.005    0.015  N/A
                      Account
FEF                   Front End Fee             0.013   0       0.013  0.013    0        0.013  100%
Total                                           1.3     1.696   2.996  0.76     1.696    2.456  82%



                                                                    Actual/Latest
Components                                   Appraisal Estimate                             Percentage of
                                             (USD millions)         Estimate (USD
                                                                    millions)               Appraisal

                                             Total                  IBRD IDA       Tot.     %

1. STRENGTHENING OF THE
SECTOR REGULATORY AND
ENVIRONMENTAL                                0.635                  0.116 0.489 0.635 100%

FRAMEWORK (part A)




10Note that the original currency of the IDA funds was in SDR for an amount of 1.1 million SDR, whereas the figures
shown in the present tables illustrate their current USD equivalent




                                                           18

                                                        Actual/Latest
Components                        Appraisal Estimate                         Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)        Estimate (USD
                                                        millions)            Appraisal

2. TA TO CARRY OUT STUDIES
AND SUPPORT PSP                   0.964                 0.098 0.459 0.566 59%
TRANSACTION (part C)
3. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
AND PUBLIC INFORMATION
AND DISSEMINATION                 0.931                 0.530 0.712 0.802 86%

CAMPAIGN (part E)


Total Baseline Cost               2.53                  2.404                95%

Physical Contingencies            0.00                  0.00                 0.00

Price Contingencies               0.338                 0.00                 0.00
Total Project Costs               2.868                 2.404                84%
Front-end fee PPF                 0.0                   0.00                 0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                0.013                 0.013                100%
Total Financing Required          2.881                 2.415                84%



Note: This table was constructed from looking at all of the contracts under the IBRD and IDA
grants and assigning them to parts A, C or E.

(b) Financing


                                      Appraisal          Actual/Latest

Source of Funds                       Estimate           Estimate            Percentage of

                                      (USD millions)     May 31, 2009        Appraisal
                                                         (USD millions)
Borrower                              1.20               1.22                110%

and Development
International Bank for Reconstruction1.30                0.758               58%

International Development
Association (IDA)                     1.665              1.665               100%




                                              19

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

World Bank Project

The World Bank Project was comprised of the following 3 components:

Project Component 1: Technical assistance for strengthening the regulatory and
environmental framework (US$0.58million)

This component financed consulting services with the firms Hytsa from Argentina, Castalia from
New Zealand and Environmental Resources Management (ERM) of the USA to:

1. Prepare and establish the regulatory framework, including:
    Review the Water Act and other key legislation and suggest ways of improving it;
    Draft regulations for the Water Act;
    Recommend institutional set-up for the commission and its secretariat;
    Outline the new operating license;
    Define institutional responsibilities for environmental and water resource management;
       monitoring and enforcement and improve capacity; and
    Define training needs and organize workshops

2. The scope of work for drafting the implementing rules and regulations for the new Water and
   Sewerage Act awarded to the firm Castalia involved: (a) review and adjust existing rules and
   regulations; (b) prepare implementing rules and regulations regarding the tariff scheme; (c)
   prepare implementing rules and regulations regarding the functioning of the National Water
   & Sewerage Commission (NWSC); and (d) through an increase in the original scope of work,
   the preparation of the service standards for the new Water and Sewerage Act. An analysis of
   how the standards should be measured, definition of performance indicators/targets and
   reporting requirements.

3. Strengthen the environmental and water resource management framework, including: (a)
   preparing guidelines for environmental licensing; (b) guidelines for impact assessment of
   water and sewage projects; and (c) updating of the watershed management plan to provide
   good baseline data on water resources (this will serve as a planning tool for WASCO, as well
   as a basis for granting licenses for new or expansion of existing abstraction sites and effluent
   discharge sites). The Environmental Framework Study required the consultant to carry out the
   following:

    An Environmental Audit of WASCO's operations;
    Identify likely water resources management issues and constraints that a private operator
       will encounter during operation. The report should identify the main constraints and
       prioritize the areas for intervention in a realistic manner; and
    An Environmental Impact Assessment and review procedures for future construction of
       water and sewerage facilities.

4. The completion of this study was delayed primarily because of the late delivery of the water
   resource component of the study. In addition, local stakeholders opined that water resource
   management issues should be addressed by law. Therefore, the water resource management
   regulations were prioritized over the Environmental Framework Study.



                                                 20

5. A National Water Policy was finally approved by Cabinet that looks at the policy for water
   from four different angles: water for health and sanitation, water for agriculture and food,
   water for industry and water for Environmental Sustainability. It is envisaged that the NWSC
   and the WRMA will coordinate the implementation of the policy.

Project Component 2: Technical Assistance for carrying out the private sector transaction
(US$ 0.88 million)

This component was implemented in two parts:

1. A feasibility study for private sector participation (PSP) transaction was carried out in
   parallel with the regulatory work described above. The contract was awarded to Stone &
   Webster Management Consultants of the USA in association with Atkins of the UK .The
   study covered:

    Demand estimates;
    Expansion and rehabilitation investment needs assessment;
    Financial modeling;
    PSP structure (debt treatment, tariff levels and structure, ownership);
    Investor surveys;
    Environmental audit which will determine liabilities and explore options for achieving
       industry standards (IS09000/14000, etc.); and
    Preparation of guidelines for private sector participation, containing comprehensive
       information on requirements such as licensing, operational guidelines, design standards
       and technical specifications, construction practices, monitoring and reporting
       requirements, protocol for future expansion, etc.

2. Transaction advice. Under this part of the component, transaction advisors and legal
   services were hired to prepare legal documents (concession contract) and promote and
   supervise the PSP transaction. A first contract was awarded to Santander Investment
   Services S.A. of Spain with a fixed fee and a success fee which would be paid upon the
   final financial and legal closure with a firm or consortium that met the financial and quality
   criteria agreed upon with GOSL, a successful transfer of shares to that firm, and the
   capitalization of the utility with the appropriate level of capital as defined in the purchase
   documents and as approved by GOSL. After an engagement period lasting nineteen (19)
   months, Santander Investment confirmed their lack of interest with respect to a second
   extension to the contract mostly due to evolving strategic priorities for the Bank

   By Cabinet Conclusion No. 887 of 2007 dated October 11, 2007, GoSL approved the
   engagement of the IFC, as the new Transaction Advisor. The Financial Advisory Services
   Agreement with the IFC was dated February 1, 2008.

Project Component 3: Project management and public information and dissemination
campaign (US$0.85 million)

This component financed part of the Project management unit (the project coordinator only as the
other PMU staff including an engineer, an accountant and administrative assistant were funded by
the GoSL) and a public information campaign, which included public consultations and
workshops to disseminate and foster consensus on the PSP process and to educate the public on
water scarcity issues. This component also financed the procurement of office equipment,


                                                21

financial audits of the project accounts and individual consultants to assist the PMU as needed.

This component envisaged a public information and dissemination campaign to provide
information to key stakeholders and the public on the reform process, and educate the public on
water scarcity issues. The contract was awarded to Right Angle Imaging (RAI) of St. Lucia in
association with Saunders ­ Franklyn Associates Inc. of Barbados, but progress achieved under
the campaign was not monitored properly. The last few months of project implementation proved
challenging for the PPP Transaction, with influential civil society groups are opposing the
transaction on the grounds that the private sector is no more competent than the public sector in
improving the efficiency of water services and attracting investments. Against this background,
the GoSL reconsidered its public sensitization and outreach strategy and a consultant specialized
in public relations consultant was hired to coordinate the external communication strategy and
plan, in order to heighten public awareness of the transaction. The degree of success of this
recent PR campaign is yet unknown.

This component supported the creation of a website to provide information on the Public-public-
private partnership transaction11, including an electronic data room and support from individual
consultants for the regulatory framework.

Project Component 4: Unallocated (US$0.25 million)

An implementation fund totaling US$250,000.00 was included in the original project financing
plan to address any critical issues that may arise out of the policy related studies. These funds
were made available to be utilized primarily for training purposes (once the training needs for
the regulators were identified). These funds could also be possibly allocated for severance
payments, if GOSL so wishes as a result of the PSP feasibility study. The implementation fund
was subsequently re-allocated amongst different categories.

CDB Project

Project Component 1: Technical assistance for the strengthening of WASCO's internal
systems (US$0.50 million)

The scope of work for this component included the development of industry accepted technical,
financial, accounting and commercial information systems and procedures and relevant staff
training in key operation areas. This component also sought to develop and implement an internal
public awareness program to inform staff at WASCO of the transition to PSP. Generally, this
component sought to make WASCO more attractive to investors seeking to enter in the domestic
market as well as to improve the skills of staff in the transition period for better integration in the
new operating environment. The contract was awarded to Severn Trent Water International of
the UK. Although relevant tools were developed, this contract had mixed results as the training
program for WASCO staff was never completed.




11http://www.saintluciawaterppp.org/background.html




                                                 22

Project Component 2: Urgently needed investments and asset rehabilitation (US$4.77
million)


The rehabilitation works under this project were those urgently needed in the short term to
enhance the reliability of the water and sewerage system so as to attract private sector capital to
fund further expansion and upgrading of the system. The Specific sub-components were:

 Supply of Domestic Potable Water Meters and Bulk Water Meters: This sub-component
   required the procurement of 17,000 consumer meters and 150 turbine bulk meters.          It should
   be noted that the estimate of meters required developed at appraisal exceeded the actual
   requirements. Although there are a significant number of surplus meters (which will be
   available for future installation) a very large % of those that required installation were
   actually installed. This activity also made significant progress in updating customer
   information. The principal shortcoming in this activity was WASCO's failure to install the
   bulk meters.
 Supply of Meter Accessories: This supply contract required the procurement of a
   comprehensive list of accessories for meter installation island-wide.
 Supply of Leak Detection Equipment: This supply contract was intended to improve the
   financial viability of WASCO, through the procurement of relevant and appropriate
   technologically advanced leak detection equipment, which was intended to be used in
   reducing the level of wastage due to leaking pipes thus resulting in lowering Unaccounted for
   Water (UFW). It was anticipated that WASCO would have developed and implemented a
   leakage detection plan, however lack of capacity and staff turnover resulted in none being
   prepared. Therefore the anticipated benefits of this subcomponent are unlikely to be fully
   realized.
 Upgrading the water treatment facility at the Grace Plant in Vieux Fort: This supply and
   install contract required the use of immersed ultra filtration membrane filters, of total
   capacity 1.5 MGD, to enhance the reliability and quality of the potable water supply,
   particularly in the rainy season, for an estimated 20,000 consumers. At the time of completing
   this report, the treatment plant was not in operation. A number of parts that are not in the
   spares list have gone faulty because of the length of time the Plant remained idle
 Rehabilitation of the Woodland Intake: The works entailed the upgrading of the water intake
   at Woodlands, Vieux Fort, in accordance with WASCO's design and standards. This intake
   supplies raw water to the new water treatment facility at Grace, Vieux Fort. This intake
   delivers between 1.1 to 1.7 MGD of raw water. Some problems have been encountered so far
   in the operations: (i) the screen is too flat and the skeleton is too weak (ii) design constraints
   ­ the gradient of the screen is less than 1:5. As a result, debris and silt reach the chamber and
   not much is carried over.
 Upgrading of the existing Hill 20 Raw Water Transmission Pipe Line: The works entailed
   the procurement and installation of relevant pump sets and switch gear for the Talvern Pump
   station. The system has the capacity of being monitored locally or by remote sensing and has
   full SCADA capabilities. The works also included the procurement and installation of
   adequate sized raw water transmission mains to replace the existing deteriorating pipelines.
   The system was completed with all necessary appurtenances to prevent damages from
   pressure transient and surges. The system has been successfully upgraded with the water
   pumps operating as per design capacity.
 Supply & Installation of Standby Generators and General Electrical Installation: This
   contract involved the Supply and Installation of standby generators and general electrical
   installation for the waste water pumping stations at Jeremie Street, Queens Lane, Sans Soucis,



                                                 23

    Entrepot and Independent City. Some Technical problems have been encountered with the
    standby generators at the Jeremie Street pumping station, but the operation of the generators
    is still within the defects liability period.
 Supply & Installation of Sewer Pumps for the Castries Wastewater Pumping Stations &
    Supply and Installation of Raw Water Pumps for Talvern: In addition to the above, this
    contract involved the replacement of unreliable mechanical and electrical equipment within
    the system.
 Installation of Consumer Meters: The works entailed the installation of 17,000 domestic
    potable water meters island wide, which currently accounts for roughly 40% of total active
    customers as at April 2009 (of a total active accounts of 43,000, not including 15,064
    disconnected accounts, there were 36,210 metered invoice accounts by this date).

Though some of the expected outcomes were not achieved, the CDB project has generated
important benefits:

     Enhancement of the reliability and quality of the potable water supply, particular in the
         rainy season, for an estimated 20,000 persons by improving water treatment capacity at
         Grace in Vieux Fort and upgrading the intake at Woodlands in Vieux Fort;
     At least 86 % of WASCO's customers are now metered;
     The reduction of public health risks to the main commercial centre of Castries, by
         replacing unreliable mechanical and electrical equipment within the sewerage system;
     The reliability of the water supply has improved mainly through the implementation of
         the northern Water Supply Infrastructure Improvement Project funded by the World Bank
         and the upgrading of the raw water transmission pipeline at Hill 20 as well as the new
         pumping station at Talvern in Babonneau funded by CDB.

                                 Output Indicators for CDB Project

Main Output              Indicator               Date/Goals achieved by         Comments/Remarks
Expected
Component 1: Technical Assistance for the strengthening of WASCO's systems12
Skills of staff improved  Percent of staff        June 15, 2009: - %              The skill training
                          passing skills tests in                                 program was not
                          their areas of work                                     conducted




Component 2: Urgently needed investments
The deterioration of the  Bacteriological         May 31, 2009: 98 - 99%         Samples taken from
water     network     is  Quality of water        (North)                        the upgraded treatment
controlled and water      samples, percent of                                    facility at Grace, Vieux
quality is maintained     samples meeting         May 31, 2009: 96% (South)      Fort, show that
                          WHO standards                                          bacteriological quality
                                                                                 of water samples far



12Other indicators for progress under this component were: a leak detection program (that was not
prepared), improvements in billing and collection (that were not achieved), and the adoption of 14 internal
procedures for improving internal systems (which were not adopted)




                                                    24

Main Output    Indicator            Date/Goals achieved by     Comments/Remarks
Expected
                                                                exceeds WHO
                                                                standards, although
                                                                there are question as to
                                                                the sustainability of its
                                                                operation


                Water availability:  May 31, 2009: 90%, 24
                average hours per    hours/day (North); 50%, 24
                day                  hours/day (South)


                Metering             April 30, 2009: 84%        17,000 meters
                                                                installed




                                      25

Annex 3. Context at Appraisal

At the time of appraisal in 2001, following many years of efforts by the GoSL and its partners to
improve the performance of the public water company through conventional institutional
strengthening programs and twinning arrangements, the national water company performed
poorly (low O&M efficiency and inability to internally generate investment funds), with
unreliable supply of water, low coverage of sewerage, poor financial performance, and low levels
of capital investment. On the other hand, the GoSL faced stringent fiscal constraints. The GoSL
had since 1998 initiated a series of reforms to put the water company on a path that was expected
to ensure long-term reliability. Among the actions taken before appraisal were:

 The transformation of the water utility from a state agency (WASA) to a government-owned
    corporation (WASCO), formally announced during a ceremony on December 6th, 1999;
 The replacement of WASCO's board of directors with private sector representatives;
 The appointment of a new General Manager and a Managing Director which were expected
    to bring a greater business-like culture to the utility;
 A down-sizing effort, supported largely through voluntary retirements, that had decreased the
    permanent payroll from about 320 staff to about 260 staff;
 A 100% increase in the average water tariff, the first increase in nearly a decade
    (implemented since February 2000); and
 The creation of a National Water and Sewerage Commission (NWSC) to regulate the sector
    (as defined in the Act passed in March 1999) as well as the actual appointment of seven
    commissioners.

However, many institutional and legal issues remained to be clarified:

 The regulatory office (NWSC) was in charge of sector-wide policy making: While the new
    Water and Sewerage Act established the NWSC as a regulator, it also granted the NWSC an
    unusual and undesirable authority to set sector-wide policies. Policy functions needed for full
    sector and corporate development needed to be allocated among the NWSC, the Ministry of
    Public Utilities, and other relevant government bodies. This was clarified in the Water and
    Sewerage Act and other legislation in St. Lucia.

 The regulatory office should be independent of the Ministry of Public Utilities. Under the
    contemporary Act the Ministry of Public Utilities was responsible for the nomination of the 7
    Commissioners on terms co-terminus with the Government. Moreover, the Commissioners
    were selected to represent the various stakeholders and relevant Ministries. Efforts should
    have been made to make the Commission as indepencent as possible from the Ministry and
    minimize the political interference in its activities by extending and staggering the mandates
    of the Commissioners.

 Lack of clarity about responsibilities in introducing private sector: The Act could be
    interpreted as allocating decision-making authority to the NWSC with regards to the
    introduction of private sector participation in water supply and sewerage services, but this
    needed to be clarified specifying NWSC's roles in initiating private sector participation. It
    also needed to be clarified with respect to WASCOC's ability of involving PSP in the form of
    sub-concessioning, sub-licensing, and other forms of PSP.

 Lack of clarity regarding responsibilities in formulating and implementing tariff schemes:
    Specific rules and allocation of responsibilities for tariff setting, implementation and



                                                  26

    monitoring still needed to be defined. A regulatory regime for tariff setting that included
    appropriate incentives for improving operating efficiency of WASCO (tariff setting regimes
    tied to specific performance targets) and for promoting consumption efficiency still needed to
    be developed.

 Conflict of interest in NWSC's mandate of water resource management: Under the
    contemporary arrangement, the NWSC faced conflict of interest between its mandate to
    regulate potable water supply and manage water resources for all water users.

 The roles and responsibilities of the operator (WASCO) were not well defined in the Water
    and Sewerage Act. More specifically it was not clear what were the responsibilities of
    WASCO regarding the scope of service provision, water conservation, and tariff setting.

Relevance of Objectives and consistency with CAS

The over-arching objective of the 2001 OECS CAS was to support poverty reduction in the
OECS region through human and institutional development and reduced income insecurity.
Within that framework, the 2001 sector-related goal was the creation of an enabling environment
including improved environmental and infrastructure regulation/management for continued or
increased private investment in utilities (water, telecom and power) leading to growth.

The 2005 approved OECS CAS supported the sub-region's development agenda for the next four
years (FY06-09) through two main pillars: (1) stimulating growth and improving
competitiveness; and (2) reducing vulnerability, by promoting greater social inclusion and
strengthening disaster risk management. The TAL Project was expected to contribute to this goal
by reduce the cost and improving services of public utilities for the consumers and businesses.

WASCO's Operations

A. Background

The Water and Sewerage Authority (WASA) was established in 1984 as a statutory body headed
by a Board of Directors (BOA) reporting to the Ministry of Communications, Transport and
Public Utilities. Rates were set by a GoSL-established Public Utilities Commission. Under
WASA, and with funding from CDB, WB and the Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA), a major project involving the construction of the John Compton Dam and accompanying
pipelines, pumping stations and a water treatment plant was completed in 1996, primarily to serve
the needs of the northern parts of the island.

Since its establishment, the service performance of WASA has been less than satisfactory.
Throughout its history, GoSL had made several changes to the institutional structure and senior
management personnel over time in an effort to improve WASA's performance. A major effort
consisted in a twinning arrangement with the Wessex Water Authority of the UK which
facilitated technology transfer and technical assistance in the 1980's. Institutional strengthening
and improvement of operational systems were also components of the CDB/WB/CIDA- funded
water supply project. Notwithstanding these interventions, WASA was unable to sustain
improvements to its technical, financial and administrative performance.

In October 1999, GoSL restructured the sector by establishing a new entity, WASCO, and
passing a new sector law. WASCO was incorporated under the Companies Act and regulated in
accordance with the provisions of the Water and Sewerage Act. The Act established the National


                                                  27

Water and Sewerage Commission (NWSC) to regulate the granting of licenses, the development
and control of water supply and sewerage facilities, and the regulation of all tariffs and related
matters. Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, the Minister of Communications Works Transport
and Public Utilities recently appointed eight members to the NWSC.

B. Water Supply Services

There are four major water supply systems in the country: a) three in the North: Castries to Cap
system, Hill 20, Mome-Fortune Bocage system and b) one in the South: the Vieux Fort system
consisting of two plants, the Woodlands /Grace and the Beausejour plants. The supply to the
treatment plants is from water streams through both gravity and pumped conveyance systems.
All flows except the Woodlands/Grace supply in Vieux Fort are now treated in filtration plants
and disinfected. Delivery to customers is by gravity or pressure systems. Reservoirs are used to
provide emergency, peaking and fire protection storage. Tanks are generally in ground concrete
structures or above ground bolted steel tanks.

The age of the system components varies widely, with many facilities in the order of 50 years old.
Pipe networks contain old cast iron, some newer ductile iron, PVC from the mid 1980's and there
is some asbestos cement piping in use. The Theobalds treatment plant was constructed in the mid
1990's; the Hill 20 and Beausejour plants were built in the 1940's.

Service lines to customers are a mix of galvanized iron, copper and PVC piping. WASCO is
progressing with an extensive program of upgrading and adding to its customer meters. 18,000
meters are being installed this year in the northern systems and WASCO intends to extend the
program (12,000 meters) into the southern region later this year.

The majority of the water supply facilities in the south of the island are not adequately equipped
to consistently treat the raw water to the desired standards, particularly during periods of intense
rainfall when turbidity is high. As a consequence, southern areas, including the town of Vieux
Fort, suffer from frequent plant shutdowns during the rainy season when it is not possible to
consistently deliver water that satisfies the guidelines recommended by the World Health
Organization.

Customer Base: Growth in the total number of connections is directly proportional to size of
population, average size of households and service coverage. For the preparation of the TAL, the
population of St. Lucia was projected to increase by 2% p.a. with an average household size of
three persons per household. WASCO was expected to increase service coverage from an
estimated 70% in 2000 to 85% in 2008. By category, the breakdown of the active customer base
shows 38,346 domestic, 3,565 commercial, government and industrial and 77 hotel connections.
Approximately, 12 ships call to port on an annual basis. Projected growth in domestic
connections were based on actual applications for new connections and the growth in the number
of hotel rooms based on proposed new developments.

Operational aspects. Some of the key factors affecting WASCO's performance, which were
taken into account at the time of Project design and surely by the interested investors, include the
following:




                                                 28

 Population and Demand Estimates. Population distribution and water flow and demand data
 are not available to the degree required to estimate flows in networks with confidence.
 Population information is required to establish design flows for elements of systems and to
 predict when infrastructure will need to be upgraded or replaced.

 Base Mapping of Network Piping. WASCO does not have base mapping of its distribution
 networks. WASCO should compile master record drawings of its networks for future
 planning and management. This should include pipe diameters, materials and age, recording
 meter locations, pressure zone boundaries and zone isolation valves.

 Population Demographics. Information on community planning demographic and settlement
 strategies at a detailed level are not available, making prediction of future demands in
 networks difficult to assess.

 Island Geography and Climate. The island has been created by volcanic activity resulting in
 hydrogeological, terrain and soils conditions that adversely affect pipeline installations.
 Existing mains traverse steep slopes and cross rivers, which turn into torrents under heavy
 rains, often causing pipeline washouts and failures. Steep terrain has also influenced
 settlement patterns and the arrangement of water distribution networks. Fragmented systems
 with many reservoirs and pumping stations are typical, giving rise to pockets of very high
 pipeline working pressures. This makes rearrangement of systems into new pressure zones
 difficult to plan. However, there are some systems which would clearly benefit from pressure
 zoning to reduce working pressures Moreover, climatic conditions take their toll on metals
 and other materials of construction and are particularly hard on electrical control and power
 installations. Hurricanes and the resulting flooding and river torrents combine to threaten
 supply and treatment system components and power supplies. This is a particular concern to
 the stability of supply from stream and river supply sources.

 Electrical Power Costs. The present cost to WASCO for electrical power is between EC$
 350,000 and EC$400,000 per month, largely consumed for water and sewage pumping. St.
 Lucia generates electricity by diesel fuelled generating stations, with an electrical power tariff
 for three phase power this year set at $0.467/ kWh, plus a fuel surcharge of $0.182/ kWh, for
 a combined unit cost of $0.649/ kWh. A typical 7.5 kW pump running 16 hours/day will thus
 create an annual power cost of $28,500 / year. The Choc booster used 384,664 kWh in 1999,
 which, at this year's tariff, would cost $250,000. The soon-to-be-commissioned San Souci
 booster station will have a 75 hp motor running round the clock, adding a further annual
 power cost of approximately $400,000 / year. These examples indicate the very high cost of
 pumping of water in St. Lucia and the benefit of capital works, where practical, that can
 relieve friction losses and unnecessary energy use.

 Water Quality. Raw water quality data for the sources were reviewed during preparation. The
 waters are surface waters from streams and are relatively soft with hardness 50 mg/L as
 CaCO3 or less, moderate alkalinity (35 mg/L or less) and variable turbidity and color. The
 Vieux Fort supply from Beausejour has some iron (0.26 mg/L) and the old plant had an
 aerator pre treatment element. for oxidation of iron. It is noted that the raw water data for the
 T.R. Theobalds plant do not define whether the water is from the Roseau Dam source or the
 Millet River or whether it represents a blend of the two sources. The sample data did not
 report E-coli, or faecal and total coliforms in the raw water; however, it is expected that these
would be present due to the extent of human settlement and agriculture in each of the
 catchments upstream from intakes. The WHO guidelines require that E.coli or thermo-
 tolerant coliform bacteria must not be detectable in any 100-mL sample of treated water in a
 distribution system. In large supplies, with frequent sampling, 95% of samples in any 12-



                                               29

 month period this indicator must be at a non-detectable level. WASCO monitors raw and
 treated water quality, including microbiological testing, at its Theobalds plant laboratory from
 monthly collections of samples island-wide.

 Transmission and Distribution System. In 1996, with the commissioning of the Dam and
 associated treatment plant and pumping facilities, there was a significant improvement in the
 water supply production capacity. These developments represented the initial phase of a
 holistic plan for enhancing the delivery of potable water to consumers in the north. It was
 envisaged that there would be further investment aimed at upgrading the capacity of the T&D
 systems to ensure that the water produced could be efficiently transported to the hydraulic
 extremities of the system. Unfortunately, because of financial and institutional constraints,
 the then WASA had been unable to pursue these plans. GoSL/WASCO has already taken
 steps to improve the transmission capacity with financial assistance from the French agency,
 Groupe Agence Francaise de Developpement. The works involved the design and
 construction of a 20-inch transmission pipeline from Port Castries to Choc Estate in the north
 of the island, a distance of 6.7 km. WASCO has also just completed the cleaning, to remove
 encrustation, of the transmission pipeline from Choc to Cap. These works will serve to more
 efficiently transmit water delivered from the Dam.

 Storage. The total storage capacity in St. Lucia is approximately 27,000m3, with 16,000m3
 installed in the north and 1 ,000m3 in the South. This is equivalent to 11.5 hours storage in
 the North and 12.5 hours storage in the South.

 Metering and Unaccounted for water. WASCO has recently been upgrading its customer
 meter installations and is presently adding new meters and replacing old, unreliable meters in
 the Northern Region. A total of 18,000 meters will be in service in the near future, allowing
 billing of all water delivered to residential and commercial customers. Contractors, many of
 who are previous WASA employees, are making the meter plumbing installations. The
 billing data systems are currently being created and WASCO will soon be able to quantify
 revenue water consumed in the north. It is intended that the metering program will be
 extended into the Southern Region as a second phase of this program. In the Castries and
 Castries to Cap distribution networks, metering data from 1996, together with flow
 measurements taken in the spring of 1999 suggest that the unaccounted for water amounted to
 about 55% of the total produced. It is presently unclear if a reduction of this figure during
 project implementation was achieved.

 Bulk Water Meters. As indicated previously, there are a large number of bulk meters at
 strategic junctions, pump stations and reservoirs within the supply and distribution systems.
 Unfortunately, the majority of these need repair and replacement of the internal meter
 elements. In the northern region, 47 meters of 85 need repair. Bringing these meters back into
 service is essential to future management of water systems to establish the real magnitude of
 Non Revenue water and UFW. Bulk meters financed by the CDB project will allow system
 operators to react to changing flow conditions and observe the increases in flow which
 indicate major leaks or line breaks. They will enable water audits to be performed on area
 sub-systems as the first step in a Leak Detection program.

 Consumption. A review of selected customer accounts in St. Lucia revealed that per capita
 domestic consumption was about 75 gpcd (340 Ipcd) when meters were first installed. This is
 an approximation of the consumption patterns for unmetered customers. After six months this
 consumption steadily decreased to between 45 gpcd (200 Ipcd) and 50 gpcd (225 lpcd).
 Approximately 84% of the customer base are now fitted with working meters and WASCO is
 currently engaged in a program to install additional ones to achieve universal metering. An



                                              30

    analysis of water usage in the hotel sector indicated that consumption is of the order of 290
    gallons per room per day (1300 liters per room per day). With respect to commercial and
    industrial customers, the average water consumption per connection was found to be
    approximately 70 gpcd (320 lpcd).


C. Sewerage and Sanitation Services

The development of the waste water collection, treatment and disposal systems has lagged behind
the development of potable water systems. The Castries sewerage system was developed in the
early 1950s and services the business center and some 12,000 people in the surrounding
residential areas. The system is in a poor state of repair with frequent breakdowns of mechanical
and electrical equipment at the lift stations creating overflows in the system. In addition,
untreated sewerage is discharged into Castries Inner Harbour where it is discharged without
treatment. In 1996, a new sewerage system was constructed at Rodney Bay and the Town of Gros
Islet in the north, and the wastewater is treated in a complex of anaerobic and aerobic lagoons,
prior to discharge to the sea, via natural drainage ways, at Rodney Bay. There has been a
reluctance of businesses and residents to connect to the system as this would increase their tariff,
which for sewage is based on 100% of water consumed. This system is therefore underutilized
notwithstanding the provisions of the Public Health Act which makes connections within a
sewered area mandatory.




                                                 31

Annex 4. Bidding Process to select a private operator

Invitation for Bids

The bidding process to select the successful bidder/investor to manage the water and wastewater
services in St. Lucia commenced on 25th April 2008, with IFC as the lead Advisor as per the
Cabinet Conclusion.     The first order of business was the publication of the public tender
announcement on the project website and on other media including the national press.

The following formed part of the tender announcement:

 The new Water and Sewerage Company ("NewCo") would be incorporated and be given a
    license for the provision of water and wastewater services throughout the island, under the
    Water and Sewerage Act No.14 of 2005. The existing fixed assets of WASCO would be
    leased to NewCo under an evergreen lease. The GoSL would service WASCO's past debt
    and liabilities. The NewCo would be de facto the dominant service provider of water and
    wastewater services for St. Lucia.
 The participation of the private sector in WASCO would proceed on the basis of a formula
    that would allocate forty percent (40%) of the shares of the new entity to an international
    private sector investor that would also exercise management control, and twenty percent
    (20%) of the shares each to GoSL, the National Insurance Corporation (NIC) and the public
    and local private sector (other CARICOM members included).
 The incorporation of the NewCo would be instrumented by way of a Subscription Agreement
    between the Private Investor, NIC and the GoSL.

Bidder Qualification

The tender procedure excluded a pre-qualification phase in an attempt to expedite the bidding
process. The invitation for Bids was open to all Bidders, which met the minimum criteria of
financial solidity and operational experience set by the Government. In particular, the tender
procedure was open to water sector bidders, non-water sector bidders13.

The proof of minimum operational experience would differ for Water Sector Bidders and Non-
Water Sector Bidders, as explained in the table below which summarizes the minimum
qualifications of Bidders.

              Bidder                                           Minimum Criteria
 Water Sector Bidders                The Bidder or, if the Bidder is a Consortium at least the Technical
                                     Member, shall have experience in the provision of water and
                                     sewerage services for at least 5 years, with at least 2 years of
                                     successful management of water and sewerage utility providing
                                     potable water services to at least 500,000 customers.




13Water Sector Bidders are Bidders in which the Bidder or, if the Bidder is a Consortium, at least the Lead
Member is registered with the competent authority of its place of incorporation for the provision of water
and sewerage services.




                                                   32

              Bidder                                         Minimum Criteria
 Non-Water Sector Bidders          The Bidder shall assemble a management team composed of a
                                   minimum of 3 members. Each of the proposed managers should
                                   have at least 15 years experience in the provision of water and
                                   sewerage services, with at least 5 years of successful management of
                                   a water and sewerage utility, providing potable water services to at
                                   least 500,000 customers.




 Water Sector Bidders and          Annual Turnover of at least US$60 million or equivalent during
 Non-Water Sector Bidders          each of the past 3 financial years. If the Bidder is a Consortium, the
                                   Annual Turnover of its lead Member shall be at least US$60 million
                                   or equivalent during each of the past 3 financial years.

                                   Net Worth of at least US$50 million or equivalent at the end of the
                                   last 3 financial years. If the Bidder is a Consortium, the Net Worth
                                   of its Lead Member shall be at least US$50 million or equivalent at
                                   the end of the last 3 financial years.

The minimum capitalization of NewCo was set at EC$36,500,000.00 in the bidding documents.

A total of ten (10) bidders purchased bidding documents. The bidder's conference organized in
May 2008 was well attended by representatives of international operators. In October 2008, three
bids were received by the Central Tenders Board including one bid received two hours after the
stipulated deadline and one bid which was considered non compliant.

With respect to the strategy for wastewater services, it was considered that the expansion of the
current sewerage system would require a magnitude of investment which may not be financeable
exclusively through tariff increases in the future. The funding of sewerage and wastewater
treatment at a national level would require external contributions either through public grants or
through concessional financing.




                                                 33

Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


Names                       Title                          Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                    Specialty
Lending
Alex Bakalian               Lead Water Resource Specialist  LCSFP   Task Team Leader (TTL)
Yoko Katatura               Financial Analysis             LCSFP    Financial Analysis
Luz Maria Gonzalez          Consultant                              Economic Analysis
Chiaki Yamamoto             Monitoring & Evaluation Spec.  PSAPP    Regulation Specialist
Lorenzo Bertolini           Regional Program Leader        PSAPP    Private Sector Specialist
Stephen Myers               Consultant                              Engineering/technical
                                                                    inputs
Daniel Boyce                Financial Management Specialist LCOAA   Financial Management
Vladimir Jadrijevic         Consultant                      LCOPR   Procurement
Supervision/ICR
Julieta Helena Abad-Oholeguy Consultant                     LCSTR   Program assistant
                                                                    (2005-2007)
Karla Chaman                Sr Communications Officer      EXTCD    Communications
                                                                    Stakeholder outreach
Alexander E. Bakalian       Lead Water Resource Specialist MNSSD    TTL (2001-2003)
Caroline Van den Berg       Senior Economist               ETWWA TTL (2003-2005)
Errol George Graham         Senior Economist                AFTP4   Economic and financial
                                                                    aspects
Svetlana V. Klimenko        Sr Financial Management        LCSFM    Financial Management
                            Specialist
Menahem Libhaber            Lead Sanitary Engineer         LCSUW Technical inputs
Patricia Lopez Martinez     Sr Financial Analyst            LCSUW TTL (August- Dec 2008)
                                                                    ICR team leader
Patricia E. Macgowan        Consultant                      LCSPT   Procurement
Navid Rahimi                Junior Professional Associate  LCSUW ICR team member
Rachel McColgan-Arnold      Communications/Country Officer LCC3C    Communications,
                                                                    Stakeholder
                                                                    outreach
Judith C. Morroy            Consultant                     LCSPT    Procurement
Nicola Ruggero Saporiti     Investment Officer             CIADR    IFC team leader
Jordan Z. Schwartz          Lead Economist                 LCSSD    TTL (2006-2008)

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                  No. of staff weeks           USD Thousands (including
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY00                              7                            20.33
FY01                              22                           104.53
FY02                              10                           37.44
Total:                            39                           162.68


                                              34

                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                              No. of staff weeks          USD Thousands (including
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Supervision/ICR
FY02                                                    1                           7.63
FY03                                                    12                         57.22
FY04                                                    15                         71.65
FY05                                                    26                       126.91
FY06                                                    14                         74.93
FY07                                                    9                          45.04
FY08                                                    11                         51.73
FY09                                                    15                         57.80
                        Total:                        103                        492.91




                                         35

Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1. Background

The Water and Sewerage Company Inc. (WASCO), was established under the Company Act
(1999) with responsibility for the provision of an adequate water service and removal of sewerage
by means of the sewerage system. The state owned company operates under a 25 year license for
water and a 15 year license for sewerage which came into force and effect on 15th July, 1999. It
is estimated that 80% of the population of St. Lucia have direct water service connections from
WASCO into their homes and yards with the balance depending mainly on public standpipes.
The service coverage for sewerage is only about 15% in the North and negligible in the South. Of
those in the North who are internally serviced with water, about 90% are provided with a reliable
24-hour supply with 50% of the customer base in the south receiving a reliable 24-hour service.

With WASCO's customers expecting continuous and tangible improvements in the utility's
performance, the Government of St. Lucia (GOSL) as the only shareholder in WASCO took the
policy decision to reform the sector. GOSL sought to address a number of critical concerns,
through policy related studies funded by the World Bank (WB) and through critical capital works
and institutional strengthening (operational efficiency), funded by the Caribbean Development
Bank (CDB). The critical capital works were short term measures, intended to have a measurable
impact on the quality and reliability of the service.

A number of deficiencies were identified during an appraisal mission carried out by CDB in 2001,
within the technical, commercial, financial and management information systems and procedures
at WASCO. Current tariffs which have been in place since January 2000, are not sufficient to
cover WASCO's efficient operating and capital costs. The newly established regulatory
framework aims to improve the tariff regime. The improved tariff regime as defined in the
regulations, is important for ensuring the financial viability of the water utility. In 2008, it costs
WASCO EC$10.73 per 1000 gallons to produce and distribute treated water, while the cost in
2007 was EC$12.77 per 1000 gallons. WASCO's domestic customers, by far the largest category
of consumers, pay EC$7.35 per 1000 gallons for consumption below 3000 gallons and EC$15 per
1000 gallons for consumption above 3000 gallons.

GOSL took the policy decision that there should be no increased tariffs until service
improvements (or the path to service improvements) have been achieved. Tangible improvements
of service to customers are beginning to bear fruit. Consequently, Government may well consider
a small tariff increase to help WASCO meet its operating expenses. The quantum increase for
low income households was addressed in the ability and willingness to pay report submitted by
the Consultants who carried out the Investment Feasibility and Financial Strategy for PSP in
WASCO. GOSL has already taken the policy decision to peg tariff increases with inflation.

2. Development Objective

The underlying objective of the project was to prepare and transit WASCO to private sector
management, within a sound legal and regulatory framework. Under this arrangement, 60% of
the shares of the publicly owned utility would be ceded to an international investor/operator and
regional private investors. With the change of administration in December 2006, the quantum of
shares to the international investor/operator remained at 40% with GOSL, the local private sector,
institutional investors and St. Lucian citizens holding the remaining 60% of the shares.




                                                  36

3. Project Scope/Components

The project included the following major elements:

a)       Technical Assistance for Strengthening the Regulatory and Environmental
         Framework (The Regulatory Study)

The regulatory study sought to identify and address the deficiencies in the legal and regulatory
framework governing the Sector. It also sought to integrate the water supply services with water
resource management so as to promote the sustainability of the water and sewerage sector. The
contract was awarded to HYTSA of Argentina in the sum of US$299,795.00. The duration of the
contract was six (6) months.

The Environmental Framework Study required the Consultant to carry out the following:

      An Environmental Audit of WASCO's operations;

      The likely Water Resources Management issues and constraints that a private operator
      would encounter, with consultant's recommendations set out in order of priority and with
      due consideration given to the practicality of implementing the recommendations;

      An Environmental Impact Assessment and Review Procedures for future construction of
      water and sewerage facilities.

For the Environmental Framework Study, the contract was awarded to Environmental Resources
Management (ERM) of the USA in the sum of US$168,855.00. The duration of this contract was
five (5) months

The scope of work for drafting the implementing rules and regulations for the new Water and
Sewerage Act involved (a) review and adjust existing rules and regulations (b) prepare
implementing rules and regulations regarding the tariff scheme and (c) prepare implementing
rules and regulations regarding the functioning of the National Water & Sewerage Commission
(NWSC). The contract was awarded to Castalia Strategic Advisors of France in the sum of
US$124,956.63.

Subsequently, an amendment to Castalia's contract was required for the preparation of the service
standards for the new Water and Sewerage Act. In addition to the levels of service standards,
Castalia was required to indicate how the standards should be measured, the performance
indicators/targets and the reporting requirements. These standards would be adopted by the
Ministry of Health and the Bureau of Standards. With the amendment, the increase in the contract
sum was US$41,500.00.

b)       Feasibility Study for Private Sector Participation in the Water Utility

The Feasibility Study covered (i) demand estimates, (ii) expansion and rehabilitation investment
needs assessment, (iii) financial modeling, (iv) PSP structure, debt treatment, tariff levels/tariff
structure and ownership, (v) investor survey and (vi) poverty assessment/willingness and ability
to pay. The contract was awarded to Stone and Webster Management Consultants of the USA in
the sum of US$413,699.00

c)       Transaction Support for the Public-Private Partnership Arrangement


                                                 37

This component was intended to finance consulting services to (a) prepare the transaction strategy
plan b) carry out marketing and investor due diligence (c) execute the transaction and (d) close
the transaction (share issue/share transfer) as necessary. The contract was award to Santander
Investment Services of Spain with a fixed fee and a success fee.                The fixed fee was
US$270,000.00 and the success fee was US$135,000.00. After an engagement period lasting
nineteen (19) months, Santander informed the Government of St. Lucia of its intention not to
request an extension to its contract.

With a lull in the PSP transaction occasioned by the change in administration, the new Cabinet
approved the engagement of the International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member of the World
Bank Group as the new Transaction Advisor

g)       Technical Assistance to Improve WASCO's Operational Efficiency

The scope of work for this component included the development of industry accepted technical,
financial, accounting and commercial information systems and procedures and relevant staff
training in key operation areas. This component also sought to develop and implement an internal
public awareness programme to inform staff at WASCO of the transition to PSP. Generally, this
component sought to make WASCO more attractive to investors seeking to enter in the domestic
market as well as to improve the skills of staff in the transition period for better integration in the
new operating environment. This contract was awarded to Seven Trent Water International of the
UK in the sum of US$245,675.00. The duration of the contract was six (6) months.

h)       Project Management Unit and Public Relations

This component included a public information and dissemination campaign, designed to explain
to the various publics, namely consumers, the key stakeholder groups and civil society, the
rationale of the reform in general and the benefits to be derived in choosing such a path, as well
as water scarcity issues. The contract was awarded to Right Angle Imaging (RAI) of St. Lucia in
association with Saunders ­ Franklyn Associates Inc. of Barbados in the sum of EC$292,600.00.


j)       Urgently needed Investments and Asset Rehabilitation

The rehabilitation works under this project were those urgently needed in the short term to
enhance the reliability of the water and sewerage system so as to attract private sector capital to
fund further expansion and upgrading of the system.

The sub-components of the critical capital works were as follows:

Supply of Domestic Potable Water Meters and Bulk Water Meters

This sub-component required the procurement of 17,000 consumer meters and 150 turbine bulk
meters.

Supply of Meter Accessories

This supply contract required the procurement of a comprehensive list of accessories for meter
installation island wide.




                                                 38

Supply of Leak Detection Equipment

This supply contract was intended to improve the financial viability of WASCO, through the
procurement of relevant and appropriate technologically advanced leak detection equipment,
which was intended to be used in reducing the level of wastage due to leaking pipes thus resulting
in lowering Unaccounted for Water (UFW).

Upgrading the water treatment facility at the Grace Plant in Vieux Fort

This supply and install contract required the use of immersed ultra filtration membrane filters, of
total capacity 1.5 MGD, to enhance the reliability and quality of the potable water supply,
particularly in the rainy season, for an estimated 20,000 consumers.

Rehabilitation of the Woodland Intake

The works entailed the upgrading of the water intake at Woodlands, Vieux Fort, in accordance
with WASCO's design and standards. This intake supplies raw water to the new water treatment
facility at Grace, Vieux Fort.
Upgrading of the existing Hill 20 Raw Water Transmission Pipe Line

The works entailed the procurement and installation of relevant pump sets and switch gear for the
Talvern Pump station. The system has the capacity of being monitored locally or by remote
sensing and has full SCADA capabilities.         The works also included the procurement and
installation of adequate sized raw water transmission mains to replace the existing deteriorating
pipelines. The system was completed with all necessary appurtenances to prevent damages from
pressure transient and surges.

Supply & Installation of Standby Generators and General Electrical Installation

This contract involved the Supply and Installation of standby generators and general electrical
installation for the waste water pumping stations at Jeremie Street, Queens Lane, Sans Soucis,
Entrepot and Independent City.

Supply & Installation of Sewer Pumps for the Castries Wastewater Pumping Stations & Supply
and Installation of Raw Water Pumps for Talvern

In addition to the above, this contract involved the replacement of unreliable mechanical and
electrical equipment within the system.

Installation of Consumer Meters

The works entailed the installation of 17,000 domestic potable water meters island wide.

4. Initial Project Operations/Problem Encountered

Rehabilitation of the Woodlands Intake

This intake delivers between 1.1 to 1.7 MGD of raw water. The problems so far encountered are
as follows: (i) the screen is too flat and the skeleton is too weak (ii) design constraints ­ the
gradient of the screen is less than 1:5. As a result, debris and silt reach the chamber and not much
is carried over.


                                                 39

Upgrading of the existing Hill 20 Raw Water Transmission Pipe Line

The system has been successfully upgraded with the water pumps operating as per design
capacity.

Supply & Installation of Standby Generators and General Electrical Installation

Technical problems have been encountered with the standby generators at the Jeremie Street
pumping station. The operation of the generators is still within the defects liability period.

Supply & Installation of Sewer Pumps for the Castries Wastewater Pumping Stations &
Supply and Installation of Raw Water Pumps for Talvern

Problems have been encountered with the Sewer Pump at the Sans Soucis pumping station. The
operation of the pump is still within the defects liability period.

Upgrading the water treatment facility at the Grace Treatment Plant in Vieux Fort

At the time of completing this report, the Treatment Plant was not in operation. A number of parts
that are not in the spares list have gone faulty because of the length of time the Plant remained
idle

Installation of Domestic Meters

Out of a total of 43,160 active customers as at April 2009, exclusive of 15,064 disconnected
accounts, there were 36,210 metered invoice accounts. The latter is likely to include some non-
functional meters, the quantity of which is unknown.

5. Project Benefits

The principal benefits of the Project are:

     The development of an appropriate legal and regulatory framework to create the
        environment for the delivery of adequate, affordable, safe and reliable potable water and
        sewerage services to consumers;

     Enhancement of the reliability and quality of the potable water supply, particular in the
        rainy season, for an estimated 20,000 persons by improving water treatment capacity at
        Grace in Vieux Fort and upgrading the intake at Woodlands in Vieux Fort;

     At least 86% of WASCO's customers are now metered, although universal meeting was
        not achieved under the Fifth Water Supply Project;

     The reduction of public health risks to the main commercial centre of Castries, by
        replacing unreliable mechanical and electrical equipment within the sewerage system;

     The improved operating efficiency anticipated from the recommendations of the
        consultancy to improve WASCO's internal systems has not yet been achieved due to



                                                 40

          technical and financial constraints as well as the impact of the escalating cost of
          electricity on WASCO's operations;

      The reliability of the water supply has improved mainly through the implementation of
          the northern Water Supply Infrastructure Improvement Project funded by the World Bank
          and the upgrading of the raw water transmission pipeline at Hill 20 as well as the new
          pumping station at Talvern funded by CDB;

      Reduction of Unaccounted for Water from 55% to 50%                          with the reduction in
          commercial losses and with the introduction of improved operational systems has not yet
          been achieved;

      Increased access to the services island wide has been achieved.

The Output Indicators below highlight the benefits achieved since the joint CDB and World Bank
appraisal mission in January 2000.

                          Status of Output Indicators as at 31st May, 2009

                           Water Sector Reform/Fifth Water Supply Project
                                             Output Indicators
      Development                 Indicator                   Date/Goals                   Remarks
 Objective/Component
             Component 1 ­ Strengthening of the regulatory and environmental framework

Regulatory                  Water Supply            The Water & Sewerage No. 14      This component of
Commission                  Legislation enacted     of 2006 was enacted on 15 May    the     development
and its staff set                                   2006                             objective         was
up and functioning                                  The Regulations were published accomplished        but
                                                    in the Official Gazette in Dec   with much delay
                                                    2008




                   Strengthening of WASCO's human resources and internal systems
Skills of staff improved    Percent of staff        May 31, 2009: - %                The skill training
                            passing skills tests in                                  programme was not
                            their areas of work                                      conducted



               Technical assistance to carry out the private sector participation transaction
The    attractiveness  of   Concession plan         September 30, 2008: Ten          WASCO has been
WASCO to the private        developed               private companies purchased      incurring net losses
sector is made clear and                            bidding documents                since
the      transaction    is  Contract with private                                    1993
facilitated                 sector operator         December 31, 2008: No
                            signed                  contract was signed
                                                                                     GOSL aborted the
                                                                                     bidding process
                                       Urgently needed investments
The deterioration of the    Bacteriological         May 31, 2009: 98 - 99%           Samples take from
water      network      is  Quality of water        (North)                          the         upgraded



                                                    41

                         Water Sector Reform/Fifth Water Supply Project
                                           Output Indicators
     Development               Indicator                  Date/Goals               Remarks
 Objective/Component
controlled   and    water samples, percent of                                 treatment facility at
quality is maintained     samples meeting       May 31, 2009: 96% (South)     Grace, Vieux Fort,
                          WHO standards                                       show that bacterio
                                                                              logical  quality  of
                          Water availability:   May 31, 2009: 90%, 24         water samples far
                          average hours per     hours/day (North); 50%, 24    exceeds        WHO
                          day                   hours/day (South)             standards

                                                April 30, 2009: 86%           7,121 un-metered &
                          Metering                                            non-functional
                                                                              meters installed
                          Public information and dissemination campaign
The public informed of    Percentage            December 31, 2007: Unknown    Exit    survey    to
the     private    sector population informed                                 determine
participation transaction of benefits of                                      percentage was not
process                   private                                             conducted
                          sector participation
                          in the water sector

6. Lessons learned

Lessons Learned which can be of use for future Projects

 Timeliness of disbursements by WASCO under counterpart expenditure and other
    disbursements reimbursable by CDB despite cash flow problems.                     For future
    operations, CDB should consider opening an EC$ account at one of the commercial
    banks, for meeting the local cost of projects;

 The reduction of disbursement conditions by the World Bank for the engagement of
    the Transaction Advisor was an appropriate approach to remove bottlenecks in
    project implementation and to expedite the transaction.              This approach was an
    excellent method to help restore a situation to its original state


Negative Lessons
 Limited Borrower capacity can prove difficult to adequately address the range of
    implementation issues in a timely and cost effective manner.               The responsible
    engineering staff from WASCO did not spend the time commensurate with the
    project's workload. Given the nature and scope of the project, a dedicated Project
    Engineer funded under the project loan should have been assigned to the PMU. Such
    an individual would have taken responsibility for the leak detection component of the
    project among his/her other responsibilities;

 The Membrane Filtration System may not have been the appropriate technology for
    water treatment in Vieux Fort, given that WASCO's expertise is in the operation and
    maintenance of this technology is limited. There is also the issue of the higher
    operating cost, due to the high power consumption of the membrane system. Where


                                                 42

life cycle cost is a factor in the selection of a new technology, WASCO's Finance
Department should be involved in the selection process. In retrospect, the evaluation
 of bids for the upgrading of the Vieux Fort treatment facility should have been on the
 basis of life cycle cost;

 Meter and meter accessories should have been packaged as one contract, or planned
 for delivery at Port Castries at the same time. There was a disparity of eleven months
 in the signing of these two contracts;

 The privatization of WASCO (from the perception of the public) required consensus
 among the ruling party, the opposition and representatives of civil society, at the
 appraisal stage to minimize broad opposition;

 The oversight of the project by four (4) different Ministries, the Ministry of Physical
 Development, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the
 Ministry of Communications, Works, Transport & Public Utilities was not the most
 effective and efficient way to implement the project. This gives rise to duplication of
 efforts and repetition of tasks;

 A public relations strategy often requires an action in respect to the mental and social
 processes of the consumer (consumer behaviour) such as (i) plant an idea in the
 consumer's mind (ii) get the consumer to act (iii) or change the attitude of the
 consumer. The public information and dissemination campaign was designed with
 this in mind, but in practice this was not accomplished.          Despite the level of
 resources expended, the majority of consumers appeared to be indifferent and not
 well informed, apart from those who vehemently opposed the PSP Transaction;

 Beyond GOSL's responsibility to ensure the financial viability of the water utility,
 there is also the responsibility to provide water to meet basic human needs and to
 safeguard the health of the nation. Based on the poverty assessment study, 20 % of
 the population would require a subsidy.          Although various approaches were
 discussed, the public was not kept well informed of the various options and how PSP
 would benefit the poor.




                                          43

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Water Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project Files in IRIS
2. Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) and Aide Memoirs for the Water Sector Reform
  Technical Assistance Project for the period 2002-2008
3. Water Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project Appraisal Document (PAD), Loan
  Agreement, Credit Agreements and Amendments
4. OECS Country Assistance Strategy 2001
5. OECS Country Assistance Strategy 2005
6. Efficient, Sustainable Access for all? An OED review of the WB's assistance to water
supply and sanitation, September 2003
7. Documents included in PPP website/ virtual Dataroom:
   http://www.saintluciawaterppp.org/background.html




                                              44

