Document of
The World Bank
Repor No. 14448-IVC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
JUNE 1, 1995
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =   CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00       =   CFAF 481
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          -      African Development Bank
ANADER    -        Agence Nationale d'Appui au Developpement Rural (National
Agricultural Services Agency)
APDF         -      African Project Development Facility
APEPCI       -     Association des Producteurs et Exportateurs d'Huiles Essentielles et Plantes a
Parfum de C6te dI'voire (Association of Ivorian Producers and Exporters of
Essential Oils)
CAA          -      Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (Government Debt Management Agency)
CIDA         -      Canadian International Development Agency
CIRAD        -      Centre International de Recherche Agronomique pour le Developpement
(French International Center for Agricultural Research and Development)
EU           -      European Union
GTZ          -      Gesellschaft ffir Technische Zusammenarbeit (Germany)
IDEFOR       -     Institut de DOveloppement des Forets (Ivorian Agricultural and Forestry Research
Agency)
MINAGRA   -        Ministere de l'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales (Ministry of Agriculture
and Animal Resources)
OCAB         -      Organisation Centrale des Producteurs Exportateurs d'Ananas et Bananes
(Pineapple and Banana Producers' and Exporters' Organization)
OPA          -      Organisations Professionnelles Agricoles (Agricultural Professional
Organization)
SMPA         -     Societ de Manutention de Produits Agricoles (Agricultural Produce Handling
Company)
UPEFL        -      Union des Producteurs Exportateurs de Fruits et Legumes (Fruit and Vegetable
Producers' and Exporters' Association)
UPHCI        -      Union des Producteurs Horticoles de C6te d'Ivoire (Ivorian Flower
Producers' Association)
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
I. BACKGROUND                                           .......................................................... 1
A.  Overview  of Role and Evolution  of Agriculture ........................................................1
B.  Recent Sectoral Performance ..........................................................2
C. Export Potential and  Constraints to Export Development ........................                                     ..................3
D. Lessons Learned  from  Bank  Group  Involvement .......................................................7
II. THE PROJECT ..........................................................7
A. Project Strategy  And Rationale ..........................................................7
B. Project Objectives And  Summary  Description .........................................................   10
C. Detailed  Project Description .........................................................11
1. Export Promotion  and Diversification  Actions ...................................................... 11
2. Support to Agricultural Producers' and Exporters' Organizations ......................... 15
3. Export Facilities Upgrade .........................................................                                              17
4. Project Management .........................................................                                                      17
III. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING                                                   ................................................ 18
A. Project Cost Estimates .........................................................                                                       18
B. Project Financing .........................................................                                                            18
C. Procurement ........................................................                                                                   19
D. Disbursements ........................................................                                                                 22
E. Accounting, Financial Reporting, and Auditing Arrangements .................................. 23
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ....................................................... 23
A. Project Implementation Arrangements                                         ........................................... 23
B. Reporting  Arrangements ......................................................... 24
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATIONS ......................................................... 25
A. Benefits .........................................................                                                                    25
B. Risks .........................................................                                                                       26
C. Environmental Impact ........................................................                                                         26
VI. AGREEMENT AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                                            ......................................... 27



ANNEXES
1. Pilot Phase Results Matrices
2. Terms of Reference for Farmer Association Development Specialist
3. Terms of Reference for Export Development/Sales Specialist
4. Eligibility Criteria and Cost Sharing Mechanisms
5. Key Project Monitoring Indicators
6. Detailed Cost Tables
7. Economic Projections
8. Procurement Implementation Schedule
9. Estimated Disbursement Schedule
10. Summary of Project Manager's and Professionals' Responsibilities
1 1. Analysis of Freight Impact
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which visited Cote dIvoire in April 1995, comprising Messrs.
Ousmane Sissoko (Sr. Financial Analyst, Mission Leader), Nicaise Ehoue (Agriculturist) and Leandre Gb6li (Agricultural
Economist). The Project Lead Advisor, Ms. Lynn Engstrand, and Peer Reviewers, comprising Messrs. Richard Anson, Jean-Francois
Barres, Richard Henry and Michel Simeon, have reviewed the project from the Initial Executive Project Summary. Mr. Jean-Claude
Balcet, Ms. Cynthia Cook and Mr. Olivier Lafourcade are the Section Chief, managing Division Chief and Department Director,
respectively, for the operation.



COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:            Government of Cote d'lvoire
Beneficiaries:       Agricultural Producers/Exporters and Professional Organizations
Credit Amount:       SDR 3.70 million (equivalent to US$5.83 million)
Terms:               Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Project Description:   The project's objectives would be to diversify and expand private agricultural
exports with a view to supporting the Government's export-led growth strategy,
through: (a) export market development activities for non traditional agricultural
products allowing for diversification out of traditional export crops; this would be
achieved by scaling up actions initiated under an eighteen-month old pilot
operation as part of project preparation; (b) support to producers' and exporters'
organizations; and (c) upgrading of export facilities.  The diversification of
agricultural exports is further intended to reduce the country's excessive
dependence on traditional crops such as cocoa, coffee and timber. The project
would have the following components:
(a)    Export Promotion and Diversification Actions through assisting Ivorian
producers in: (i) market research, customer identification, meeting quality
requirements, trial shipments, obtaining pre-export finance and follow-up of sales
and export shipment; (ii) product development and quality control via adaptive
research; (iii) establishment of business partnerships for private operators
engaging in the production and export of products proven to have an important
export potential for the country, such as desiccated coconut, cashew nut, tropical
cut flowers and potted plants, essential oils and fruits and vegetables, etc. This
component is built on the results of the pilot project tested from November 1993
through April 1995;
(b)    Support to Producers/Exporters' Organizations by strengthening existing
privately-controlled professional organizations: producer groups, exporter
associations, cooperatives, etc., and promoting the creation of new farmer
associations and the establishment of an Interprofessional Group of Producers' and
Exporters' Associations. The interprofessional group of associations will not only
represent the interests of its members but is also expected to become the major
vehicle for non traditional export market development;
(c)    Upgrading of Export Handling Facilities through rehabilitating the
infrastructure in critical areas such as the existing fruit wharf in the Port of
Abidjan and undertaking minor works for handling and specialized storage
facilities at the airport for allowing better transit conditions for the export of
perishable produce.



- ii -
This component will be carried out under parallel financing from grants of the
European Union; and
(d)    Support to Project Management which will be carried out by qualified
private professionals experienced in agricultural export and farmer organization as
done efficiently during the pilot phase.
Benefits:             The project will directly benefit an estimated 100 private enterprises/exporters and
reach indirectly by project completion at least 10,000 growers of non traditional
crops who, without this project, would have little or no hope to develop successful
export sales on their own. It will have major impact on agricultural professional
organizations as it will contribute to streamlining existing associations and helping
establish new ones. It will empower these organizations to effectively lobby the
Government for necessary changes related to their activities while enhancing the
ability of these organizations to represent producers/exporters. The development
of non traditional crop exports will enhance job creation throughout the country
for those producers/exporters engaged in such activities. It will further move the
country from a position of being highly dependent on traditional crops (such as
cocoa, coffee, cotton, etc.) to a position of producing high value, branded Ivorian
products which sell at high prices in the off-season markets of Europe and other
continents. This is expected to bring about a significant improvement in the
country's export receipts. The project will also result in sigrificant additional
local value-added because of the expected increase in local demand for processed
products which would be a side outlet for non exportable products. In addition to
the above benefits, the project will enhance the skills and knowledge of farmers
and exporters significantly and carry many farmers from subsistence level farming
to a position of profitable producers of high value export crops.
Risks:                The major foreseeable risk is likely to be a slower than expected private sector
supply response if conflicting interests were to delay the hoped-for improvements
in the incentive framework for agricultural exports. If the implementation of the
Government's plan to progressively liberalize sea and air freights were delayed and
tariffs were not adjusted, there might also be a risk that freight costs could price
Ivorian products out of the international market. Such risks would be reduced,
however, through the removal of major economic and sectoral constraints as part
of the reforms agreed upon under the Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) which
became effective in November 1994, and those to be supported through the
proposed Agricultural Structural Adjustment Credit (ASAC), in addition to
increased involvement in lobbying actions by the recently created Air Freight
Committee. There is also a risk that government agencies attempt to interfere
with project activities.  The strengthening of professional organizations and
eventually their grouping into an interprofessional group of trade associations
would empower them to better represent and defend their interests, remain self-
reliant and ensure an effective project implementation.



COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Overview of Role and Evolution of Agriculture
1.01         The agricultural sector contributes about 33 percent of Cote d'Ivoire total GDP and 66
percent of its total export revenues (including agroindustrial products). It also provides employment to
more than two-thirds of the country's labor force. During the first twenty years of independence, Cote
d'lvoire stood out as an exceptional agricultural performer. Real agricultural GDP grew at 4.5 percent p.a.
during the 1960s and at 3.3 percent p.a. during the 1970s. This expansion was led by export crops and
timber which grew at about 7 percent a year, about twice the growth rate of food crops and livestock. The
performance of the agricultural sector provided the underpinning of the country's remarkable economic and
social development. During the period 1965-1975, total GDP grew at 7.7 percent p.a. on average, well
ahead of an annual population growth rate of 4 percent.
1.02         The good performance of the agricultural sector was the result of a combination of
favorable factors. The country's rich endowment in relatively fertile land, in particular in the Forest region,
and abundant rainfalls provided a favorable environment for the low cost production of tree crops such as
coffee and cocoa. High intemational prices for the country's main export crops allowed the Government to
set (administratively-fixed) attractive producer prices even after a substantial taxation. The country's
political stability encouraged the immigration of productive labor from neighboring countries. High levels
of public investment in basic infrastructure and in direct agricultural production (oil palm and rubber
plantations) and processing (cotton) provided small farmers with access to markets, technical packages,
inputs and credit. Substantial investments were also made in research and extension. Because agricultural
production was essentially based on small farms, the growth of the rural economy was broad-based and
living standards in rural areas improved substantially, despite economic policies biased in favor of the
industrial sector and urban populations.
1.03         Following two decades of growth the performance of agriculture along with the economy
in general deteriorated sharply in the 1980s. The agricultural GDP average growth rate fell to 1.2 percent
p.a. during the 1980-91 period, and was a negative 1.2 percent over the 1980-86 period. This decline was
mainly due to faulty macroeconomic and sectoral policies. At the end of the 1980s, it was compounded by
a steep drop in the price of CMte d'Ivoire's main export crops on intemational markets. The above factors
combined to drastically reduce the profitability of agriculture. At the same time, severe budgetary
constraints forced the Government to drastically scale back public investments and services in favor of the
rural sector.
1.04         The crisis of the 1980s uncovered constraints which, although unheeded during the years
of economic growth, seriously impaired the ability of the sector to adjust to changing intemal and extemal
circumstances. Inadequate pricing policies introduced a wedge between incentives to farmers and the
country's comparative advantage for the various crops. The heavy public investment programs of the
previous decades had created large, ineffective and costly bureaucracies more intent to preserving their
privileges than to providing services to farmers. The gray area between public and private interests had



-2 -
permitted the creation of substantial rents which heavily taxed primary producers. Agricultural parastatals,
good at starting-up the production of a new crop and promoting its adoption by smallholders, were much
less effective at fostering the diversification of production in their command areas. They were also
inflexible with regard to production packages proposed to farmers, often disregarding technologies less
sophisticated but better suited to small-holders circumstances. Because of their monopoly position, they
were not interested in improving their efficiency since they were able to pass on processing and marketing
costs to primary producers. These rigidities, combined with the explicit (through export taxes and taxation
of inputs) and implicit taxation (through the overvaluation of Real Effective Exchange Rate - REER) of
agriculture, depressed rural incomes and limited the ability of farmers to finance widespread technological
change. Finally, the Government's policies were inadequate to ensure the sustainable management of the
country's natural resources, in particular the conservation of its fast disappearing tropical forests.
1.05         External Trade. The value (in current terms) of agricultural exports, including processed
products, declined by almost 50 percent from 1985 (CFA franc 1,000 billion) to 1992 (CFA franc 473
billion). However, the share of agriculture in total export fell only slightly during the period, from 66
percent to 60 percent of total exports, underlining both the overwhelming importance of agriculture in total
exports and the negative impact of the fall in commodity prices on world markets. In 1992, cocoa exports
(beans and processed products) represented 54 percent of the value of total exports (against 45 percent in
1985), in spite of the fall in their unit price. C6te d'lvoire's main agricultural imports are cereals (rice,
wheat floor) and animal products (meat, milk and fish). Because of the impact of the economic recession
on domestic demand, the total value of food imports has steadily declined since 1985. In 1992, it amounted
to CFA franc 112 billion (4 percent of GDP).
B. Recent Sectoral Performance
1.06         Evolution of Competitiveness. The evolution of the Ivorian economy in the latter half of
the 1980s is characterized by two inter-related developments whose effects have been to seriously erode
competitiveness. The price indeces for C6te d'Ivoire's principal exports (all of which are agricultural
commodities) fell precipitously and negative Terms of Trade (TOT) trends were most severe for its two
most important exports, cocoa and coffee. Regarding cocoa, this was partly due to faulty pricing policies
which over-encouraged cocoa production, causing a glut in world markets, and speculation on the
international market. For all other commodities, C6te d'Ivoire is a price-taker in world markets, and the
country was hurt by the worldwide fall in primary commodity prices that characterized much of the 1980s
and early 1990s.
1.07         TOT evolution is a primary determinant of the real effective exchange rate (REER). From
1986 to January 1994, the REER appreciated significantly, causing a major decline in the competitiveness
of Ivorian exports. Under a flexible exchange rate system, the exchange rate automatically adjusts to
restore the economy to competitiveness and bring major macroeconomic variables back into approximate
equilibrium. As a member of the CFA franc zone, C6te d'Ivoire's currency is fixed relative to the French
franc, so any attempt to adjust parity requires an inter-governmental decision. This has not happened until
January 12, 1994 when the decision was taken to realign the CFA franc parity from CFA franc 50 to CFA
franc 100 per French franc, or a devaluation of 50 percent in foreign terms.
1.08         Up to January 12, 1994, C6te d'Ivoire had elected to pursue a policy of internal
adjustment, adjusting wages and prices, and severely slashing public investment. Internal adjustment
occurred to varying degrees for major commodity sub-sectors, but it only minimally restored
competitiveness. Moreover, what little increases in competitiveness that occurred were unsustainable
because the most important measures taken -- cutting producer prices -- were at the expense of farmers.



- 3 -
For CMte d'lvoire, internal adjustment was a recipe for contraction, not growth. Since farmers are among
the poorest elements of Ivorian society, such a strategy was also highly inequitable. The above problem is
being resolved by the change in the parity of CFA franc that has opened the way to a series of major
reforms notably a substantial raise in producer prices. However, export taxes continue to be heavy.
C. Export Potential and Constraints to Export Development
1.09          Potential for Diversification Out of Traditional Export Crops. Since the beginning of the
60s, the Government has been aware of the necessity to diversify agricultural production to avoid relying
excessively on cocoa and coffee, the two major export crops, and to promote a greater degree of food self-
sufficiency. Diversification policies were resolutely proactive. They relied more on the belief of direct
State intervention to promote infant industries (permitted by comfortable budgetary surpluses) than on
establishing an enabling environment for private sector expansion. They were supported by large public
sector investments (particularly for sugar, oil palm and rubber; also for rice; not for pineapple and bananas
which have always been privately controlled industries), and included a high degree of protection of the
nascent domestic production. Large parastatals were created to manage the public investments, with
broader mandate to ensure the socio-economic development in their command areas.
1.10          Over the years, while production may have developed well technically in some cases, the
economy of the diversification filieres has clearly deteriorated. Competitiveness was seldom attained, and
never preserved, because of inflated costs and lack of incentives to streamline operations and increase
productivity. The Government failed to remove protection that may have been justified in the phase of
establishment of production, and the attendant distortions that had crept into the filieres. The cash and
food crop parastatals became gradually plagued with management and financial problems due in part to
their redundant staff and the multiplicity of the task assigned to them. Their financial deficits grew more
serious over the years as the Government became less and less able to pay subsidies.
1.11          The results of diversification efforts to date are mixed, and their scope has remained
modest in relation to the country's large production base and comparative advantage. The fifieres under
private control (pineapple and bananas) have suffered greatly from the overvaluation of the REER and the
lack of an enabling environment. Nevertheless, they have been able to adjust and remain at the cutting edge
of competitiveness, especially in the case of bananasfiliere in which major efforts have been made to renew
and expand facilities. It is of no surprise, therefore, that their competitiveness would have improved
dramatically in the wake of the devaluation. The filieres still controlled by the State are a mixed bag.
Some filieres have brought in some degree of adjustment in their operations (cotton, rubber) while other
have largely resisted adjustment (oil palm, sugar). In the wake of the devaluation, most of these fiWibres
have regained financial profitability. At this time, efforts should aim at consolidating such profitability and
making it sustainable. This can only be achieved by resolutely moving toward completing the privatization
of parastatals such as Palmindustrie, etc. as part of broader policies geared to redefining the role of the
State and of the private sector in agricultural development.
1.12          Pursuing diversification efforts is a necessity as they are key to ensuring a balanced
growth of agriculture for the long-term. Diversification should be pursued by broadening the scope for
activities to non traditional exports destined for the intemational market, and to food crops destined to the
domestic (or sub-regional) market or to substitute imports (rice in particular).  CMte d'Ivoire has
undoubtedly a comparative advantage to producing a wide array of non traditional exports.  This
comparative advantage is due to: (a) its climate which endows the country with the capacity to produce the
entire range of tropical products that can be found elsewhere at the same latitude in the world; (b) a
relatively efficient infrastructure base (telecommunications, roads, seaport, airport) that facilitates



exchanges with foreign countries; (c) the relative proximity of the vast and expanding European market; (d)
historical links with the European continent, reflected in the facilities of entry that African products still
enjoy on this market; and (e) the existence of an agro-industrial base that permits to produce processed and
semi-processed products.
1.13          Non traditional exports can be classified into fresh products and processed products.
There are presently significant exports flows of non traditional agricultural commodities in fresh, and large
possibilities for expansion of these exports, inter alia: (a) ornamental flowers: CMte d'Ivoire has already
developed a good image as an exporter for these commodities whose exports are very lucrative; it is worth
noting that CMte d'Ivoire is the only exporter of ornamental pineapple (ananas fleur) for which there is an
interesting potential market; (b) fresh fruits: there is a large array of fruits currently produced, or with an
interesting production potential, suited for export in fresh; this includes mangoes, avocados, guavas,
papayas, grenadines, passion fruit and mangosteen; at this time, only mangoes are exported in significant
quantities, and producers are still ill-equipped and ill-organized for production and export of the other
commodities; (c) fresh vegetables: the European market offers an interesting outlet at certain periods of the
year for vegetables such as eggplant, chilly, melon and string beans; some Afiican countries have already
taken advantage of this market; in addition, there is a growing African community in Europe which
constitutes an incipient but growing outlet for certain tropical vegetables such as the n'drowa variety of
eggplant, cassava leaves and okra (in fresh or dried form), etc.; and (d) sundry products: with an exported
volume of 30,000 tons per annum, CMte d'Ivoire is the first exporter of cola nuts in the world; while the
traditional demand of Sahelian countries is sustained, exports increasingly go as well to the international
market which is fast expanding especially in dried nuts form; raw cashew nuts have substantial production
potential and a growing export market; CMte d'Ivoire currently exports about 15,000 tons yearly to the
international market; with the reopening of the processing unit in Korhogo and the creation of new
plantations, the quality of production should increase markedly; and silk production (sdriciculture) that
CIDT started under a pilot operation is testimony that other opportunities for diversification still exist.
1.14          Traditional food crops also represent an opportunity for diversification, both for the
domestic and international markets. On the domestic market side, the expansion of urban centers (in
particular the Abidjan metropolitan area), offers a growing outlet for products of the urban belt (agriculture
peri-urbaine). The demand concerns in particular cassava and sundry vegetables. While marketing
systems are fairly well organized, there is large scope for increase in production out of greater
intensification and better use of organic waste. On the international scene, there is a growing demand for
African products mostly on the part of African and Caribbean communities living abroad. In recent years,
market networks have come into existence for such products as yams, plantains, cassava (fresh and in
processed form such as attieke), okra, chilly, red palm oil, dried fish, etc., for which C6te d'Ivoire has a
competitive edge over other potential suppliers.
1.15          Remaining Major Constraints to Export Development and Possible Improvements. The
potential for export development in CMte d'lvoire continues to suffer from institutional and regulatory as
well as technical and commercial constraints that constitute important bottlenecks to fully restoring the
country's competitiveness. On the institutional front, a number of government institutions were established
during the last few years with the objectives of export promotion. To date, such objectives remain
unattained because of rigidities in their operations, lack of dynamism to identify foreign buyers' demand for
Ivorian products and lack of operating means and adequate expertise to conduct business. As a result, the
Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Chamber of Agriculture and the Centre de Commerce
International d'Abidjan are all experiencing serious difficulties in providing an effective support to the
development of the country's exports by private businesses. Regulatory constraints are also known to be
chiefly responsible for inordinate excessive shipping costs for both sea and air transports due to existing



monopoly in maritime transport of goods from C6te d'Ivoire and that granted to airliners Air Afrique and
Air France for all air cargo transports. Transportation and VAT issues are further detailed in paras 1.18
through 1.24 below.
1.16          Inadequate professional experience and expertise of producers and exporters are another
major constraint to developing exports of Ivorian non-traditional agricultural products.  The local
producers and sellers of non-traditional products, for the most part are relatively small enterprises which
simply do not have the resources or the experience and expertise to enter into the intemational marketplace
to identify customers, their needs and requirements or to form necessary business relationships to make
sales. In general, the Ivorian non traditional and small crop producers are not equipped and experienced in
conducting market research, identifying potential regional and overseas customers first and then producing
to meet the specific needs of these customers, and to carrying out the demanding negotiations and pricing
that is required for successful international business transactions.
1.17          The most important technical constraints have to do with the poor state of transport
logistic (e.g., the fruit wharf) and the lack of specialized storage facilities at the harbor and the airport of
Abidjan for perishables.
1.18          Transport. Maritime shipping costs from Cote d'Ivoire are extremely high in comparison
to developing countries and to Africa because of existing monopolistic situations. As agricultural exports
are the most important foreign exchange earner for the C6te d'Ivoire, seeking ways to lower maritime
shipping costs is a crucial ingredient of competitiveness. Maritime shipping costs are especially important
for perishable commodities such as bananas and pineapples, as well as bulky wood products. For such
commodities, ocean freight currently constitutes 20-30 percent of the CIF price. Government intervention
dominates the maritime shipping sector, and this has resulted in inefficiencies and elevated costs. C6te
d'Ivoire has extended the UNCTAD Code of Conduct (40-40-20 rule) meant for conference liner traffic to
total general traffic (i.e., conference and non conference ) and to bulk and specialized traffic. This practice
limits competition and increases freight prices, particularly for exporters of bulky products. The Societe
Ivoirienne des Transports Maritimes (SITRAM), a parastatal, holds the monopoly of Ivorian traffic rights
between West Africa and Northern Europe, the Atlantic coast of the United States, and on refrigerated and
bulk transport for all destinations whereas Ivonian traffic rights to mediterranean European ports have been
granted to the private shipping line SIVOMAR. Freight rates are negotiated by a government dominated
agency, the Office Ivoirien des Chargeurs (OIC), which also has the responsibility of apportioning cargo
space to shippers.
1.19          Up to 1993, the French firm SCAC-Delmas-Vieljeux (SDV) held a defacto monopoly for
shipping of Ivorian banana and pineapple exports to Europe, as SITRAM owns no refrigerated vessels and
had passed on its traffic rights to SDV. However, the Banana and Pineapple Exporters' Organization
(OCAB) resolved not to accept SDV's terms (then US$121 per palette of 900 kg). In December 1993,
OCAB decided independently to contract two ships via competition and was able to secure a rate as low as
US$65 perpalette. Faced with OCAB'sfait accompli, the Minister of Transport granted to OCAB -- on
February 1, 1994 retroactive to the date of signature of the contract -- a special authorization to contract
ships directly for the 1994 campaign for 50 percent of its shipments.
1.20          Liberalization of maritime traffic continues to be a major concern of Ivorian exporters. In
the long-run, C6te d'Ivoire risks continued loss of export market share due to erosion of price
competitiveness. From 1985 to 1991, the Ivorian share of the EC banana market fell from approximately
5.3 percent to slightly over 3 percent. Although still the main exporter of fresh pineapple to the EC, CMte
d'Ivoire has gone from a over 90 percent of market share in 1985 down to just over 60 percent by 1991.



- 6 -
Every effort needs to be made to lower ocean transport costs through increased competition. Moreover, the
every day management of the cargo allocation by OIC entails delays, inefficiencies, and opportunities for
rent-seeking behavior.
1.21          Under the ERC which became effective in November 1994, the Government has committed
itself to eliminate restrictive practices in the maritime transport sector. As a result, exporters should be
allowed to seek direct agreement with shipping companies to take advantage of much better transport rates
that competition brings about.
1.22          Against this background, transport monopolies appear to constitute the single most
important remaining constraint to the competitiveness of Ivorian agricultural export across the board. The
monopoly enjoyed by the national carrier SITRAM for sea transport, which is indeed aggravated by a
virtual monopoly and low capacity of Air Afrique/Air France for air cargo transport, result in excessive
transport costs with deleterious effects on agricultural export operations. An Air Freight Committee was
recently established to ensure proper planning of exports by air taking into account the limited loading
capacity of current air carriers and maintain the dialogue with the Government to ascertain a proper follow-
up of the treatment of the above issues.
1.23          Value-Added Tax. Current VAT policies and practices and possible future reforms have
major implications for the competitiveness of agricultural sector exports as the VAT content in the cost
structure reaches up to 10 percent for some products. A major issue which needs to be addressed is that of
the extension by option of the field of application of VAT on a number of agricultural, forestry and
fisheries products destined to exports, thus enabling them to claim the VAT refund on inputs.
1.24          Under the FY 91 Competitiveness Sector Adjustment Loan (PASCO), exporters for those
agricultural, fishery and forestry products not yet subjected to VAT were to be allowed to opt for VAT and
thus be entitled to a credit for VAT paid on their inputs. Under the PASCO second tranche conditionality,
the Government has accepted to open the VAT option for bananas, pineapples, flowers and ornamental
plants only, claiming that there are no other major non traditional exports at present. To further improve
the export incentive framework, it is critical that an undistorted incentive system be established once and
for all, and that potential non traditional exporters should not have to lobby the Government to get their
product eligible for VAT option and thus get the VAT refunds to which they are entitled.
1.25          Prospects for Supporting Export Promotion and Diversification.   C6te d'Ivoire's
competitiveness for export crops has been greatly enhanced by the recent change in the parity of the CFA
franc. The actual mobilization of the potential, on a scale that will make a difference, will require on the
part of national entrepreneurs to make the most out of every single export niche. Support on the part of the
Government will be required both to strengthen the incentive framework and remove the obstacles to supply
response. This will include, inter alia: (a) institution building, by strengthening professional organizations;
(b) improving the fiscal and regulatory framework for export activities; (c) support to export production by
providing specialized technical services (adaptive research, seed production, etc.); (d) assistance to export
marketing, in particular assistance to establishment of partnership with foreign investors to secure technical
expertise, market outlets and financial advisory services for export businesses; and (e)
rehabilitation/upgrading of export infrastructure at the port and airport. As part of the preparation of the
proposed project, a pilot operation tested real export opportunities for a number of non traditional crops
(desiccated coconut, papaya solo, cut flowers, essential oils, etc.) and worked with more than 60
agricultural producers and their associations over an eighteen-month period. The operation has received an
enthusiastic response on the part of the above producers especially for commodities such as papaya solo,
yams and other ethnic food products, as well as for essential oils and desiccated coconut. A few firm



- 7 -
orders have been secured and pilot shipments have permitted to test packaging materials and transportation
methods, in particular containerized transport by sea in controlled atmosphere for papayas and flower
pineapple (ananas-fleur). The operation has also laid the ground for addressing the air freight problem
through the establishment of an Air Freight Committee and assisting the development of professional
organizations for fruits and vegetables and essential oils.  Overall, the results of the operation are
encouraging, and augur well for the eventual large scale development of non traditional exports. (Annex 1)
D. Lessons Learned from Past Bank Group Involvement
1.26         Experience of several developing countries in Africa, Latin America and Asia where
agricultural export promotion and diversification has been supported by the Bank, has demonstrated that
even modest success in increasing a country's share of world markets can translate into considerable
growth. It is also showing that the future is in non traditional exports, while also giving evidence that
traditional exports still need to be part of an outward-oriented strategy. Moreover, unrestricted access to
imported inputs, investment licensing, financing and realistic exchange rates proved to constitute critical
factors in creating an enabling environment for an outward-oriented development benefiting agricultural
production. An important ingredient for successful entry into the international market has often been the
presence of a catalytic mechanism that facilitated the establishment of partnerships between local
agricultural producers and foreign investors and their subsequent response to world market demands. An
important lesson learned in the failure of developing fruit and vegetable export market in a number of Bank
export projects has been the lack of identification of customer and product requirements beforehand.
Foreign market development proved to be an essential ingredient for export promotion projects in Kenya
and Burundi while excessive complexity and division of responsibility for implementation has been a major
factor that adversely affected the performance of Kenya's export promotion project.  The above
considerations are largely taken into account in the proposed project design as most of them are and can be
met for C6te d'Ivoire.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Strategy and Rationale
2.01          Strategy. The proposed project would support the Government's outward-oriented strategy
in favor of agricultural export promotion and diversification. Such a strategy fosters primarily the
production and marketing of non traditional agricultural products -- as opposed to traditional commodities
such as coffee, cocoa, cotton and timber -- while paying due regard to traditional exports through seeking
to enable an overall appropriate and improved incentive and regulatory framework. It relies on the
Government's recognition that the driving force for growth in the country will come from increased
agricultural production and export. It also draws on the new opportunities for the restoration of the
agricultural export sector competitiveness which are now emerging following the CFA franc devaluation of
January 12, 1994.
2.02          Major highlights of the Government's strategy involve the following:
(a)    continued implementation of macroeconomic reforms and specific policy measures being
carried under relevant ongoing structural and sectoral adjustment operations, to further
benefit agricultural exports;



- 8 -
(b)    an "exporters-first" philosophy to be promoted through an improved institutional
environment to benefit both local and foreign private investors;
(c)    empowerment of the private sector to implement an export-led strategy without
Government interference;
(d)    a clear recognition of the need for establishing an institutional framework in the form of
trade associations to represent the non traditional producers and the export sector. These
associations, in addition to providing direct support to their membership in the form of
training and technical advice, will also represent the agricultural producers/exporters vis-a-
vis the Government, donors and in the marketplace for promoting Ivorian agricultural
products; and
(e)    support to specific actions aimed at: (i) increasing the country's share of exports mainly
non traditional products; (ii) improving quality and competitiveness of agricultural exports
through simplifying and/or removing regulatory and logistic constraints to agricultural
exports; (iii) setting up services to supply market intelligence and secure commercial
partnerships between local and foreign businesses; (iv) providing credit facilities (not to
exceed CFA franc 15 million per borrower) to small private agricultural exporters of non-
traditional products through the establishment of a National Agricultural Promotion and
Diversification Fund which is a revolving fund with an actual initial appropriation of CFA
franc 1.25 billion (about US$2.6 million); and (v) ensuring the protection and effective
management of he country's natural resources.
2.03          Link with the Sector Adjustment Operations. The present operation would complement a
number of adjustment operations supported by the Bank, most notably the Competitiveness Adjustment
Loan (PASCO), the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (PASFI), the Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) and
the upcoming Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC) and Private Sector Development Credit
(PSD). Under the PASCO, a number of measures aimed at the promotion of non traditional exports were
adopted, of which the following are of direct relevance to the proposed operation: (a) settlement by the
Government of VAT arrears to exporters, i.e., reimbursement of VAT paid on inputs for all eligible
exports; (b) extension of VAT eligibility (and hence reimbursement of VAT paid on inputs) to certain
agricultural exports (bananas, pineapples and flowers and plants; extension to other products is scheduled);
(c) elimination of the statistical tax of 2.5 percent for inputs used in export production; and (d)
improvement in the system of temporary admission of inputs for export products.
2.04          More generally, the PASCO  has introduced a series of reforms that facilitate the
development of private sector activities, like the elimination of price controls (with a few exceptions), the
reduction of the level and dispersion of tariff rates, the reduction of the number of VAT rates, the
modification of the Investment and Labor Codes. The upcoming Private Sector Development Credit
addresses specifically issues of interest to exporters, like the streamlining of customs/port procedures,
remaining VAT deduction issues, and the reform of export promotion institutions and payment of overdue
VAT credit arrears. Similarly, the PASFI has contributed to strengthen the financial system through the
recapitalization of commercial banks, the closing of unprofitable state banks, the securitization of
government arrears to the banking and insurance sectors and the introduction of legal reforms to facilitate
the calling of collateral and reduce the cost of legal action. Although term credit to the private sector
remains a challenge, these measures have contributed to reestablish the confidence of private operators on
the financial system so as to enable it to play its proper role in the promotion of private sector activities,
including export promotion.



2.05          The ERC has been the vehicle for the introduction of reforms in the maritime transport
sector, aimed at increasing competition in such services and reduce transport costs. Maritime transport
issues are being resolved under the ERC will thus contribute to create an appropriate incentive framework
for the success of project activities. These measures are not only of extreme importance to the current
operation but they will also increase, overall, the competitiveness of Ivorian agricultural exports in foreign
market.
2.06          As for the ASAC, it will introduce relevant reform measures in the agricultural sector
which will aim at liberalizing trade and prices, increasing private sector efficiency and reducing the
Government's role in the sector. The ASAC will continue to broaden and deepen the trade policy reform
measures initiated and agreed by the Government under PASCO to help restore the competitiveness of the
Ivorian economy by: (a) reducing and eventually eliminating any restrictions (licenses, quotas) on the
importation of agricultural and agro-industial commodities other than those related to health reasons, and
substitute it by a transparent protection mechanism based on reasonable levels of tariff duties; and (b)
adjusting the export tax on cocoa and coffee, taking into consideration the fiscal needs of the country. It
will further support the full liberalization of consumer prices in the agricultural and agro-industrial
subsectors initiated under the PASCO and the ERC and contribute to streamlining the Government's role in
the economy. ASAC support to policy actions is being or will be complemented with IDA investment
operations in agricultural services, rural financial services and export promotion.
2.07          Given the common interest to deepen the Bank Group's understanding of the constraints to
dynamic private sector development in C6te d'lvoire, IFC and the Bank had prepared a Private Sector
Assessment which was discussed with the Government and the private sector in June 1994 during a seminar
which was used as the launching pad for the upcoming PSD Adjustment Operation. Close coordination
with IFC of activities to be supported under the project will be further pursued (para 2.22). IFC has been
involved in textiles, food processing and agribusiness sectors with investments geared to the development of
export-oriented and import substitution projects and the expansion of small and medium-sized companies.
Total commitments held by IFC as of March 31, 1995 were about US$86 million. In keeping with the
economic changes brought about by the recent devaluation, IFC is expected to pursue increasing
opportunities in agribusinesses in addition to export based manufacturing and small business sectors.
2.08          In the short-term, the devaluation will also have a more favorable effect on the rural than
the urban poor. While farmers suffered greatly from declining incomes prior to January 1994, the
devaluation will provide them with a much needed boost in their incomes through increased producer prices
which constitute the most efficient and direct means to alleviate poverty in rural areas in the short term.
While volumes of traditional exports would grow at rates consistent with their international demand,
rapidly expanding non traditional exports would provide a source of dynamism over the medium to long
run.
2.09          As highlighted in the June 1994 CAS, protecting the environment and managing the
resource base has become a major objective for sustainable development in Cote d'Ivoire. The Government
is confronted with serious environmental problems such as deforestation, loss of biodiversity, soil
degradation, water pollution, and management of industrial and domestic waste. The Government has
drafted a National Environment Action Plan (NEAP) expected to be approved shortly. An Orientation
Document was already discussed during a seminar held in November 1994.   Following the
recommendations of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in 1992, this plan
will be among the first in Africa to address the full range of global as well as national environmental issues.
To provide greater focus on environmental policy, the Government intends to draw up an environmental



- 10-
code. It will also install and manage an environmental data base to monitor trends in environmental quality
in both urban and rural areas.
2.10          Rationale for IDA Involvement. In line with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), the
proposed project will be a vehicle to support private investment and private sector involvement in
improving the performance of non traditional exports and streamlining the role of the private professional
organizations in the agricultural export sector. It fits well in the Bank's post-devaluation country strategy
as it would complement sectoral reforms initiated under the Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) and to be
carried out under the future Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC) which aim, among other things,
at liberalizing trade and prices, increasing private sector efficiency and reducing the Government's role in
the economy. Combined with an appropriate institutional and regulatory framework which will be in place
under the Government's planned strategy, the project is further anticipated to be an important catalyst for
increased private sector involvement in agricultural promotion and diversification.
B. Project Objectives and Summary Description
2.11          Project Obiectives. The project's objectives would be to diversify and expand agricultural
exports and sales and contribute to private sector development, with a view to supporting the Government's
export-led growth strategy, primarily through: (a) export promotion and diversification actions oriented
primarily toward the growth of non traditional agricultural products and the development of markets for
such products by scaling up actions initiated under a pilot phase; (b) strengthening existing associations of
agricultural producers/exporters and promoting the establishment of an interprofessional group of
producers/exporters' associations and the creation of new farmer associations; and (c) upgrading of critical
export handling facilities. The diversification of agricultural exports is further intended to contribute to
reducing the country's excessive dependence on traditional crops such as cocoa, coffee and timber.
2.12          Project Summary Description. In support of the above objectives, the project would have
the following components:
(a)    Export Promotion and Diversification. Actions through assisting Ivorian producers in: (i)
market research, customer identification, meeting quality requirements, trial shipments and obtaining pre-
export finance and follow-up of sales and export shipment; (ii) product development and quality control via
adaptive research; (iii) establishment of business partnerships for private operators engaging in the
production and export of products proven to have an important export potential for the country, such as
desiccated coconut, cashew nut, tropical cut flowers and potted plants, essential oils and fruits and
vegetables etc. This component, which will be a scaled-up version of the pilot project (November 1993
through April 1995), will provide hands-on assistance to producers/exporters in identifying regional and
overseas buyers and in making sales contracts. It will assist in establishing Ivorian brands, logos and
labels/packaging. Financial advisory services and training for entrepreneurs in the agricultural export
sector will also be provided to facilitate access to the banking sector's facilities through assistance in
preparing credit applications and helping secure export financing and guarantee arrangements, especially
for smaller agricultural export businesses. The project would thus help establish a necessary link to
encourage financing by local banks and foreign commercial partners and enhance producers/exporters'
knowledge in cost accounting and export finance;
(b)    Support to Producers/Exporters' Organizations by strengthening existing privately-
controlled professional organizations: producer groups, exporter associations, cooperatives, etc., and
promoting the creation of new farmer associations and the establishment of an Interprofessional Group of
Producers' and Exporters' Associations. The interprofessional group of associations will not only represent



- 11 -
the interests of its members but is expected to become the major vehicle for non traditional export market
development;
(c)    Upgrading of Export Facilities through rehabilitating the infrastructure in critical areas
such as the existing fruit wharf in the Port of Abidjan and undertaking minor works for handling and
specialized storage facilities at the airport for allowing better transit conditions for the export of perishable
produce. This component will be carried out under parallel financing from grants of the European Union;
and
(d)    Support to Project Management which will be carried out by qualified private
professionals experienced in agricultural export and farmer organization as was done efficiently during the
pilot phase.
C. Detailed Project Description
1. Export Promotion and Diversification Actions
2.13          The results of pilot activities, which preceded the project and were designed to test actual
export sales and market development operations and possibilities for agricultural diversification by a
sample of over 60 enterprises, have indicated that an important potential for export exists in CMte d'Ivoire
for non traditional products such as desiccated coconut, cut flowers and potted plants, essential oils and
fruits and vegetables, cashew nut, cola nut, etc. as detailed in the matrices in Annex 1. The pilot phase
tested successfully, over an eighteen-month period, a methodology which focused on assuring that the
buyers on regional and overseas markets are identified first, that their needs and requirements are translated
back to Ivorian producers and that the producers can successfully meet the needs of buyers.
2.14          The methodology also ensured that support is provided for demand-driven services
requested by producers and exporters of non-traditional products. The pilot operation has further been
instrumental in hosting a large number of requests for market identification services which were being
sought from various donors and defining a coherent approach for seeking solutions to common problems
experienced by producers and exporters of non traditional products with respect to establishing business
relationships with foreign buyers, product quality improvement, etc. It has received an enthusiastic
response on the part of the above producers and exporters. The methodology is now well established and
will be scaled up during the project implementation period.
2.15          Results of Pilot Operation. The pilot project's methodology involved working one-on-one
with Ivorian producers and exporters to develop export sales and markets for non traditional agricultural
products. The Ivorian clients served by the pilot project range from fairly sophisticated operations which
are technology and know-how intensive to inexperienced entrepreneurs who have nevertheless a vision of
serving export markets with locally produced agricultural products. The pilot operation has also laid the
ground for addressing the air freight problem through the establishment of an Air Freight Committee and
assisting the development of professional organizations for fruits and vegetables and essential oils.
2.16          Just as the clients served by the pilot project are diverse so are the services provided by the
pilot project's professional staff. These services range from international market research to participation
in international trade shows alongside the Ivorian producers and exporters. In addition, the staff provides a
wide range of strategic and business planning and advisory services which would otherwise be unavailable
to local business people. Farmer organization and arrangements for adaptive research have also been
major areas of assistance. The pilot phase further demonstrated that there does exist a demand from the



- 12 -
private Ivorian producers and exporters for the full range of services described above, and that it can be
scaled up as it currently operates to continue achieving 'bottom line" results for Ivorian producers and
exporters.
2.17          In view of its positive results, the pilot activities will be scaled up during the project
implementation period. Producers and processors of the above high-value commodities would continue to
benefit from project assistance to match their request for the above services and for other services including
research on product development and quality enhancement and control, advice on acquiring new and
improved genetic materials as well as other inputs and the required information on their appropriate usage
will be also provided to producers. Overall quality enhancement, including intemational standard
certification and product quality management and modem food quality and safety standards, is expected to
ensure high quality export products under the project. Assistance in the establishment of business
relationships and market development will also be a major project action.
2.18          Detailed eligibility criteria and cost sharing by project beneficiaries are presented in Annex
4. Project beneficiaries under the above component will be primarily Ivorian businesses and corporations
governed by Ivorian law as well as producers/exporters' associations and professional organizations. They
will be producers and exporters who have demonstrated the basic technical know-how and mastered
production requirements. Eligible activities will include: market development and market research;
feasibility studies; research on product promotion, quality control, processing and storage; product
shipping tests and financial advisory services and training to prepare sound financial packages and provide
advice and training in simple accounting and business management. The project will contribute to promote
those products for which a demand and/or market are proven to exist so that project action ensures the
attainment of improved production and product quality along with the mastery of export operations.
Project beneficiaries will contribute to direct costs associated with their requested operations to the tune of
40 percent for promotion actions and market research, 40 percent for financial advisory services and 20
percent for adaptive research. In order to benefit an optimal number of producers/exporters, specific limits
on total project funding to any single beneficiary over the implementation period will be observed by the
project management; these will not exceed the equivalent of US$25,000 and US$50,000 respectively for
individual businesses and corporations and US$100,000 for producers/exporters' associations and
professional organizations. The support on behalf of a single beneficiary under the project will be normally
limited to two actions or three in exceptional cases.
2.19          Support to Non-Traditional Export Crop Market Development. This will be provided
under the project through assisting Ivorian producers in: (a) market research, customer identification,
meeting quality requirements, trial shipments and packaging assistance, and obtaining pre-export finance
and follow-up of sales and export shipments; (b) product development and quality control via adaptive
research; and (c) establishment of business relationships for private operators engaging in the production
and export of products proven to have an important export potential for the country, such as desiccated
coconut, cashew nut, tropical cut flowers and potted plants, essential oils and fruits and vegetables etc.
This component will provide assistance to producers/exporters in identifying regional and overseas buyers
and in making sales contracts. The exploration of new markets in the region and overseas and the
development of new products would also be undertaken through product market promotion activities
including participation and booking stalls in fairs abroad. Moreover, market information systems will be
initiated under the project by the Project Coordinator to have instant access to commodity prices, grading
and packaging requirements as well as demand and supply indicators. During project implementation,
alternatives will be explored to maintain such systems. Additional market development work will be
carried out under this component to establish Ivorian brands, logos and labels/packaging to carry through
with the identity and image of Ivorian product quality. In addition, to enhance the exporters' knowledge of



- 13 -
international trade, workshops on export and international trade regulations will be organized using
expertise of international specialized institutions such as COLEACP (Comite de Liaison Europe, Afrique,
Caraibes), the International Trade Center (ITC), etc.
2.20          Financial Advisory Services and Training. Typically, smaller agricultural enterprises in
CMte d'Ivoire lack access to formal financial services. This situation has not changed despite the
overliquidity position of the country's banking sector following the change in parity of the local currency
since January 1994. The banks' risk aversion is particularly important for new businesses as will be the
case for many project beneficiaries engaged in non traditional crops. Indeed, such businesses normally do
not have a robust track record nor the experience in putting together sound financial arrangements. During
the pilot phase, however, the banking sector has been responsive when such businesses were introduced and
followed up by the Project Coordination team's financial staff. Hence, the provision of financial advisory
services to help prepare sound financial packages is included in the project and expected to continue to
make these businesses more attractive to the banks.
2.21          To meet the standards of banks and intemational financial institutions, between two and
three person/months of specialist inputs are usually required for finalizing packages including adequate
technical, market and financiaUeconomic analyses and securing business partnerships and funding. The
unit cost of such services per dossier may be as high as $100,000 when provided by most major
international consulting firms or financial agencies while the project will secure the basic expertise required
to perfonn such activities cost-effectively.
2.22          As IFC has a long-standing relationship with CMte dIvoire and has been involved in
export-oriented projects (para 2.07), project beneficiaries who may be eligible for APDF's services and/or
IFC's lending will be referred to those agencies. The project has indeed established a close working
relationship with APDF - a UNDP project with IFC as executing agency and ADB as regional sponsor --
which is providing advisory services to medium and larger enterprises with the objective of helping African
entrepreneurs develop viable projects. It is also considering with IFC, through the Africa Enterprise Fund
(AEF) which finances projects costing between $250,000 and $5 million, ways to involve the latter in
taking equity participation in some promising non traditional producer/exporter businesses. It is also
working directly with producers and exporters of essential oils, cashew nut and fruits which are benefiting
from IFC's lending. By focusing on smaller enterprises, the project activities will contribute to widen the
array of advisory services available to agricultural producers/exporters and rather complement those of
structures such as APDF. The wealth of infornation gained by the project on the sector's businesses is
further proving to be extremely important in complementing IFC/APDF's knowledge of smaller businesses.
2.23          The Government's National Agricultural Promotion and Diversification Fund (para 2.02),
which is one of the many government funds directed at segments such as small businesses, school leavers
and women's enterprises, will be an additional source of funding to be raised by smaller exporters for the
next couple of years. This is likely to be a temporary source of funding since the Government is
considering to revisit by December 1997 its credit and fund policies and the suitability of instruments to
support them. Following the Agricultural Sector Review and ASAC discussions, the Government concurred
that no additional allocation to the Fund will be made; a comprehensive review of the role and performance
of the Fund will be carried out by December 31, 1997.
2.24          The availability of financial advisory services under the project will help foster those
operations whose economic viability, financial sustainability and environmental soundness are established.
Thus, assistance to help smaller exporters in obtaining pre- and post-shipment finance from banks would be
provided together with training and advisory services for preparing credit applications and helping secure



- 14 -
other export financing arrangements, especially for smaller agricultural export businesses. By providing
enterprise-specific advisory services to and assisting smaller exporters in structuring sound financial
arrangements as part of their project designs, the project would help establish a useful link for obtaining
financing by foreign commercial partners in addition to local banks. Training will also be provided to
enhance those businesses' knowledge in cost accounting and export finance. The project's financial
specialist will be in charge of the above advisory and training services. For areas requiring special skills,
he will resort to competent specialized firms' assistance which is available locally. To this effect, short
term consultancies will be provided under the project.
2.25          Adaptive Research and Extension. Adaptive research will be conducted to find solutions
to agricultural producers and exporters' concerns in areas such as production techniques, post harvest
storage, product processing and packaging. Specific research priorities and subjects will, among other
things, cover the following: (a) desiccated coconut: quality upgrade and control to match export
requirements; (b) essential oils: refinery techniques and quality control; (c) cashew nuts: kernel extraction,
improved salting and grilling techniques; (d) cola nut: storage and drying techniques; (e) tropical cut-
flowers and potted plants: storage techniques and development of new varieties; and (f) tropical fruits and
off-season vegetables: processing techniques, extended storage and transport conditions, development of
new varieties. Research studies will be contracted out through short term consultancy assignments to
qualified individual researchers and national research institutions.
2.26          IDEFOR -- one of the major local research institutions -- has developed the required
expertise in the above research activities mostly for produces such as lime, cashew nut, pepper,
mangosteen, papaya and mango. Unfortunately, due to financial constraints, most of these activities were
reduced these past years. Under the project, annual research programs will be relaunched and established
in close liaison with producers/exporters and their professional organizations with the objectives that these
beneficiaries bear part of the cost -- through contributions in kind including inputs and labor on trial farms
and cash for about 20 percent of the cost -- and continue to negotiate directly with the research institutions.
To procure the technical assistance and the specialized service, the research institutions could enter into
contracts with a few reliable private larger producers and cooperatives, with a view to conducting trials in
real conditions on their farms. As vegetables and legumes have not been part of their area of concentration
of local research institutions, a partnership arrangement between IDEFOR and CIRAD or another
international research institution would be worked out to secure a qualified researcher who will be stationed
in the field for a two-year period during which he would be paired with a local researcher who will take
over the research activities to the completion of the project.
2.27          For a long time SODEFEL (the Ivorian Agency for Fruit and Vegetable Promotion) was
the main company in charge of horticultural extension. After the dismantling of SODEFEL in 1992,
extension activities were entrusted to CIDV (the Ivorian Agency for Food Crop Promotion), replaced by
ANADER, a mixed company, established in 1993 under the IDA-financed National Agricultural Services
Support Project (Cr. 2636-VC). ANADER is now the Government's principal implementing agency with
regard to extension, adaptive research and support to farmers' organizations. To allow small farmers meet
export standard requirements, specialized management and technical support will be needed. In this regard,
the project would contribute to develop expertise in horticulture within ANADER to carry out this
specialized extension program. As was the case under other Bank's operations, contractual arrangements
will be made with ANADER under the proposed project.
2.28          Total costs of the above component for Export Promotion and Diversification Actions
which will be financed under the project amount to US$6.26 million.



- 15 -
2. Support to Agricultural Producers' and Exporters' Organizations
2.29          Under the project, support will be provided to promote the establishment of agricultural
professional organizations specialized in a particular product or group of products and to groups of
homogeneous producers. Similarly, the strengthening of existing organizations will also be supported.
This will help the Government implement its Agricultural Export Promotion and Diversification Policy
through promoting privately-controlled organizations including producer groups, exporter associations,
cooperatives, etc. To this end, the project would provide the required assistance through national and
international consultancies.
2.30          Support to the Development of Professional Associations. Because of the current low
efficiency and level of organization of key agricultural professional organizations, project assistance will
focus on strengthening and fostering the development of those existing organizations and helping establish
new ones for producers involved in non traditional export crops. In the initial phase, project efforts will be
concentrated on producers involved in non traditional crops with high export potential including primarily
commodities such as fresh cut flowers and potted plants (UPHCI), tropical fruits and vegetables (UPEFL),
essential oils (APEPCI), etc.
2.31          Services of a farmer organization specialist will be made available under the project
through technical assistance for a period not to exceed three years to help establish agricultural producer's
and exporter's associations involved in the above crops. Such an action will be complemented by
management and legal assistance required for the formal establishment of nascent associations and by
assistance in developing their work programs and training their members in simplified cost accounting and
management principles.
2.32          The project will also provide technical support covering the provision of advice on export
quality requirements and grading norms, labels, market development/representations, planning of air
shipments and adaptive research through contracting out the execution of such services by local and
international institutions and NGOs specializing in these fields.
2.33          Project assistance will be in inverse proportion to the degree of organization of beneficiary
associations. The project's assistance will be required in all of the above areas for newly created
associations involved in non traditional export such as UPEFL (est. 1993) and the association of essential
oil producers (APEPCI) which has been recently created.
2.34          Strengthening of agricultural producers' and exporters' associations. Producers of non
traditional export crops have imnportant common interests in dealing with major export issues but the very
diverse nature and division of their activities lead them to seek crop specific solutions only which are giving
little dividends.  This situation has resulted in a weak bargaining and lobbying capability affecting
individual producer groups in representing their interests. Following extensive discussions and several
roundtables organized by interested exporter groups and governmental agencies, and in light of experience
gained under the pilot phase, it was felt by such groups that forming themselves, over time, into an
interprofessional group of agricultural exporters' associations could be a relevant structure to better
represent them, address their concems with regard to the main constraints to export development and
diversification, and engage in trade lobbying actions. The interprofessional group will also be responsible
for proposing norms, standards and labels for quality products and arranging promotion campaigns as well
as market development actions.



- 16-
2.35           Apart from OCAB1 which is efficiently organized and self-reliant but deals with banana
and pineapple only, no other producer association has yet achieved an adequate level of development in
C6te d'lvoire. Moreover, there is no such association capable of implementing the promotion and technical
support being envisaged under the proposed project. Hence, promotion and strengthening of agricultural
professional organizations will be an important initial action to be carried out under the project. This will
also be a basis to draw upon for current and future membership in the interprofessional group of
agricultural exporters' associations.
2.36           An appropriate legal framework exists in CMte d'Ivoire for the establishment of such an
interprofessional group which will be governed by the laws of September 21, 1960 and December 26, 1974
on civil and trade associations. Once formally established, the interprofessional group of agricultural
producers and exporters' association will be a major vehicle for promoting non traditional agricultural
exports.  Its members will be constituted by existing professional associations involved in agricultural
production and export and/or related activities who will be free to join and membership will be extended to
such future associations. The establishment of the interprofessional group is likely, however, to take
between two to three years to become effective as it will have to draw upon a foundation of fairly weak
existing professional organizations yet to be strengthened. The required process of training, sensitization
and education of future member associations will be undertaken under the project.
2.37           In addition to representing the interests of its members and engaging in the trade lobbying
actions, other major advantages of the establishment of the interprofessional group would include: (a)
ensuring the sustainability of project action once the project is over since the interprofessional group will be
a permanent professional organization; and (b) ensuring that an institutional capacity which may be used as
a vehicle for coordinating and implementing other possible donor assistance is in place. Indeed, an
interprofessional group must not become an instrument to create barriers to new entrants or limit
competition and its statutes will include limitations to prevent such a situation. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that a feasibility study would be carried out to determine the need to establish the
inter professional group and specify the modalities of its finctioning. The terms of reference for the study
would be agreed upon with IDA and the recommendations of the study will be implemented in agreement
with IDA.
2.38            Under the project, assistance and short-term consultancies will be provided to promote the
formal establishment of the interprofessional group through legal advice to prepare its statutes and
operating principles and assistance for establishing the manual of procedures and an accounting system.
Investment costs including technical assistance, office fittings and equipment and operating costs for the
above component are estimated at US$2.88 million.
1 OCAB is a producer's association fully established (in 1992) under the 1960 Association Act and constituted by 20 export
structures comprising cooperatives, associations and corporations. It has a modem and effective management structure
including a general assembly, a board, a management committee and an executive secretary in charge of day-to-day
management. OCAB represents its members vis-a-vis the government authority and defines the code of ethics for its
members. Its other main finctions include: (a) coordination of production and exports on the basis of the demand in foreign
markets, (b) promotion of Ivorian fruits on foreign markets, (c) negotiation of shipping contracts, and (d) assuring quality
control and fruit packaging.



- 17 -
3. Export Facilities Upgrading
2.39          During project preparation and processing extensive discussions with the Government and
producers/exporters including OCAB -- the most developed and influential private export professional
organization of the country -- concluded that there is a dire need for improving the country's export
infrastructure through rehabilitating the fruit wharf and securing additional handling and storage facilities
for fresh produces at Abidjan airport. Construction of a new wharf was not found to be warranted and
viable in view of the current level of transactions involving 339,000 palettes in 1994. However, the
rehabilitation of the existing wharf is increasingly becoming critical in view of its steady deterioration
during the last several decades and subsequent difficult handling conditions and costs. The management of
the wharf which is currently under the responsibility of OCAB which subcontracted it to SMPA -- a private
handling service -- will be maintained following the planned rehabilitation. The Port Autonome of Abidjan
who owns the wharf will continue to levy the harbor tax currently ranging between CFA franc 5 to 7 per kg
of exported product and use these revenues for maintaining the rehabilitated wharf.
2.40          Current export facilities at the Abidjan airport are also acknowledged to be inappropriate
for temporary transit and storage required before shipment of fresh produces such as fruits, vegetables and
flowers and especially for perishables which cannot stand maritime transport or because they may not be in
volumes that warrant such a means of conveyance. To cope with this problem which is further aggravated
by frequent delays and cancellations of air flights with deleterious effects on fresh produces, the
construction of additional handling and specialized storage facilities for fresh produces at the airport will
need to be undertaken during project execution. Airport infrastructure upgrade will be managed by the
airport authority ANAM (Agence Nationale de l'Aviation Civile et de la Met6orologie) which will also
collect the required fees for maintenance and subsequent rehabilitation. The following activities will be
carried out under the project:
(a)    Studies to (i) define the exact scope and timetable of the infrastructure rehabilitation work
for the fruit wharf in the Abidjan harbor, and (ii) demonstrate the feasibility of the
establishment of additional handling and specialized storage facilities for fresh fruit at the
airport; and
(b)    Execution of rehabilitation works in the existing fruit wharf at the Port of Abidjan for
producer groups, and the construction of handling and specialized storage facilities for
export of fresh products at the airport. Major rehabilitation works pertaining to the fruit
wharf will involve improvement of the flushing and draining systems, strengthening of the
dike and platform slope, refurbishing of existing merchandise sheds, etc.
2.41          The total cost of the above component is estimated at US$3.74 million and will be financed
through grants of the European Union.
4. Project Management
2.42          Details on project management and implementation arrangements are presented in the
Project Organization and Management, chapter IV. The costs associated with project management
estimated at US$1.52 million will be financed under the project.



- 18 -
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Cost Estimates
3.01           Total project cost (including direct taxes of US$1.73 million), is estimated at about
US$16.40 million or CFA 7.89 billion, of which US$7.50 million or 46 percent is foreign exchange. Prices
are as of April/May 1995. Cost estimates do not include the contributions to the equity of exporting
enterprises which would be made by owners or would-be owners. They include the cost of project
preparation work for: (a) activities financed under the IDA PPF for a total US$400,000, which are being
carried out and would be refinanced under the credit; (b) Canadian technical assistance financed from a
grant from CIDA for a total equivalent to US$ 1 million; and (c) activities financed under a Japanese grant
for a total equivalent to US$0.6 million. Price contingencies have been calculated on the basis of foreign
inflation rates of 1.5 percent for 1995, 1.8 percent for 1996, 2.6 percent for 1997, 2.5 percent for 1998
through 2000, and local inflation rates of 8 percent for 1995, 3.2 percent for 1996, 3.0 percent for 1997
and afterward. Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been calculated on the cost of equipment and
infrastructure. All disbursements by IDA would be net of taxes. Project cost estimates are summarized
below. Details are presented in Annex 6.
Summary Project Cost
Percent    Percent of
CFAF million              USs million        Foreign    Total Base
______              ________ Exchange   Costs
_Local   Foreign  Total   Local   Foreign  Total
A. Export Promotion and         1,412   1,323    2,735   2.93    2.75    5.68      48        38
Diversification Actions                    _                                                        ll
B. SupporttoProducers/Exporters,  691    556     1,247   1.43    1.16    2.59      45        17
Organizations
C. Export Facilities Upgrade    1,113   474      1,587  2.31    0.99     3.30      30        22
D. Project Management           454     178     632    0.94    0.37      1.31      28        9
E. Project Preparation          96     866      962    0.20    1.80      2.00      90        13
Total Baseline Costs       3,765   3,397    7,162   7.83    7,06    14,89     47         100.0
Physical Contingencies     249     102      351    0.52    0.21     0.73      29        5
Price Contingencies        267    108      375    0.56    0.22      0.78      29        5
Total Project Costs     4,281   3,607    7,888   8.90    7.50     16.40    46         110
B. Project Financing
3.02           In addition to the IDA Credit of US$5.83 million (35.6 percent of project costs), financing
would be provided by other cofinanciers including CIDA (20.9 percent) and the European Union (22.8
percent), on the basis of parallel financing. About US$0.6 million (3.7per cent) financed preparation work
under Japan's grant for agricultural export promotion. CIDA has indicated its interest to cover the cost of
additional expatriate expertise from Canada that would be required during project execution in addition to
its participation during the project preparation. Similarly, the European Union is interested in financing the
proposed fruit wharf rehabilitation and handling and specialized storage facilities for perishables at the
airport. The project would not result in a major demand on public funds: the Government will be



- 19 -
responsible for taxes and duties and part of operating costs for a total of US$1.09 million (6.7 percent).
Producers and exporters would also share in the costs to the tune of US$1.71 million (10.4 percent); their
contribution represents up to 18 percent of total project costs excluding bilateral technical assistance and
infrastructure financed through grants. Assurances on the project cost sharing were obtained at
Negotiations. The project financing plan is as follows:
Project Financing Plan
Local      Foreign    Total        Percent of Total
US$ million                             ll
IDA                                 3.48       2.35       5.83         35.6
CIDA                                0.40       3.02       3.42         20.9
European Union                      2.64       1.10       3.74         22.8
Japan                               0.00       0.60       0.60         3.7
Government                          1.02       0.07       1.09         6.7
Agricultural Producers/Exporters    1.37       0.34       1.71         10.4
Total              8.90       7.50        16.40       100
3.03          Project Sustainability. The project would enhance the capacity of the agricultural export
sector to respond to the country's export promotion and diversification objectives. Through strengthening
farmer organizations and helping establish an interprofessional group of such organizations, the project
would contribute to build a local capacity that would further ensure that actions initiated under the project
are carried out and pursued upon project completion. Effective and sustainable farmer participation will be
assured as producers and exporters will be voting and paying members of their existing and future
professional organizations and of the interprofessional group that they will own and from which they will
demand high levels of continuous services. Project benefits will be also maintained after project completion
in view of the importance of the private sector's effective involvement and participation in project activities
and costs.
C. Procurement
3.04          C6te d'Ivoire's procurement regulations were a major constraint to the implementation of
Bank-financed projects because of delays due to extended reviews by governmental  agencies of
procurement procedures including invitation to bid, evaluation, and contract award. In June 1993,
following a comprehensive review of the country's procurement regulations carried out during the Country
Implementation Review (CIR), the Government decided to cut down on time required for internal reviews
and adapt its procurement documents to be consistent with Bank's guidelines in Bank-financed projects.
The Prime Minister's office and the Ministry of Finance have also issued written instructions (letter of July
28, 1994) imposing strict monitorable deadlines at each step of internal reviews by their officials involved
in procurement. These measures are expected to improve substantially procurement implementation in the
country.
3.05          Under the project, contracts for consultancy services for technical assistance, for studies
and training by local and international consultants would be made in accordance with Bank's guidelines for
consulting services. Vehicles, for a total amount of US$0.24 million and numbering 10 in total, can only
be packaged in small lots of 2-3 units and will be procured at about 2 years interval under National



- 20 -
Competitive Bidding (NCB) method of procurement. Office equipment for a total amount of USS0.16
million and publicity and informative materials for a total amount of US$0.17 million will also be procured
through NCB. National Shopping (NS) with quotations from at least three reputable firms will be used
only for miscellaneous equipment and some of individual computers for contract values less than $20,000
and an aggregate value of US$0.10 million. Purchase of fuel, consumables and materials required for
operating vehicles and equipment throughout the project and up to an aggregate amount of $200,000 will
be procured by direct purchase. Contracts for stall renting and occupancy at foreign trade fairs for a total
of amount US$0.17 million will be made on the basis of direct contracting since such costs are
predetermined by the host countries. International Competitive Bidding (ICB) will be used for all contracts
for goods of US$200,000 or more.
3.06         The proposals for advertising, draft bidding documents, bid evaluation, and award
proposals for contracts for goods of US$100,000 or more, individual consultants of US$50,000 or more
and consulting firms for US$100,000 or more would be subject to prior review by IDA. The review
process would cover about 80 percent for goods and of the total value of contracts financed by IDA. An
IDA selective post-review of awarded contracts below the thresholds would be done for about 1 in 4
contracts for both goods and services.
3.07         The Project Management would be in charge of carrying out project procurement.
Procurement information would be collected and recorded as follows:
(a)    prompt reporting of contract award information by the Project Management; and
(b)    comprehensive quarterly and annual reports to IDA by the Project Management,
indicating:
(i)   revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project;
(ii)   revised timing of procurement actions including advertising, bidding, contract
award, and completion time for individual contracts; and
(iii)   compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
3.08         Assurances on the procurement arrangements were obtained from  Government at
Negotiations. Contracts for pre-project consultancy services by local and international consultants were
financed from the proceeds of a Japanese grant for agricultural export promotion and of PPFs for the
project. The procurement implementation schedule is presented in Annex 8. The planned procurement is
summarized in the following table:



-21 -
Procurement Table
(US$million)
NCB   OTHER NBF  TOTAL
1. Works                                                                  3.69    3.69
2. Goods
Vehicles                                0.38                 0.04      0.42
(0.24)                         (0.24)
Office Equipment                       0.27       0.12       0.17     0.56
(0.16)    (0.07)              (0.23)
Publicity/Informative materials        0.29       0.35                0.64
(0.17)    (0.20)               (0.37)
3.Consultants
Consultancies                                     2.89       3.87     6.76
(2.10)              (2.10)
Training                                          0.61                 0.61
(0.56)              (0.56)
4. Miscellaneous
Operating Costs (fuel, consumables)               0.43                0.43
(0.20)              (0.20)
Incremental Recurrent Costs2                      2.89                2.89
(1.73)              (1.73)
Project Preparation Facility                      0.4                 0.4
(0.4)               (0.4)
Total                    0.94      7.69       7.77     16.40
(0.57)    (5.26)               (5.83)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA Credit.
2   This item corresponds to staff salaries and travel allowances, office supplies and communications, office equipment
maintenance and repair, fuel, vehicles insurance, maintenance and repair, and ofrice rent.



- 22 -
D. Disbursements
3.09          The proceeds of the proposed IDA Credit will be disbursed as follows:
Disbursement of IDA Credit
Category                       Allocation in US$ million      Percent of Expenses Financed
1. Vehicles, Equipment and
Materials                            0.72                          80 percent local costs
100 foreign costs
2. Consultants' Services and            1.29                        100
Trauiing
3. Agri-business Services               0.96                         60 percent local costs
100 percent foreign costs
4. Adaptive Research Services           0.25                          80 percent local costs
100 percent foreign costs
5. Operating Costs                      1.63                  Declining basis: 80 percent until
end 1998 and 40 percent
thereafter
6. Refinancing of PPF.                  0.40
7. Unallocated                          0.58
Total                       5.83
3.10          To ensure that funds for project implementation are available as and when needed, a
Special Account in local currency would be established at CAA with an initial deposit equivalent to
US$350,000, to cover about four months of expenditures, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account after
Credit effectiveness. The Special Account would be replenished monthly or more often when the total
disbursed amounts to one third of the initial deposit, whichever is sooner. Disbursements will be fully
documented except for expenditures for operating costs, training and contracts for goods and consulting
firms costing less than US$100,000 equivalent. Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) will also be used for
contracts for individual consultants costing less than US$50,000 equivalent. The training program will be
included in the Annual Work Program (para. 4.04) and approved annually. All expenditures above 20
percent of the initial deposit to the Special Account would be eligible for direct payment by IDA. All
supporting documents will be retained by the Project Management and made readily available for review by
periodic IDA supervision missions and external auditors.
3.11          A Project Account in local currency will also be opened at CAA for the Government to
deposit its share of funding. The requirements in local currency to be provided by the Government will be
established yearly and advances will also be made yearly on the basis of disbursement forecasts for the next



-23 -
twelve months. Replenishments will be made no later than March 31 of each year. Assurances were
obtained on the above at Negotiations. Opening of the Project Account at CAA with an initial deposit of
CFA franc 100 million will be a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
3.12          The Credit funds are expected to be disbursed faster than the standard disbursement profile
for agricultural projects in C6te d'Ivoire, in view of the shorter implementation period for this operation
which, in essence, is a private sector support operation including institution building and time-bound
technical assistance. Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
E. Accounting, Financial Reporting, and Auditing Arrangements
3.13          The Project Management would establish and maintain separate project accounts in
accordance with internationally recognized accounting principles and practices satisfactory to IDA. It
would provide interim and annual financial statements to reflect its financial position and that of the
project. All project accounts, the special account and financial statements would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA. The audit report would specifically include the auditors' opinion on the Special
Account and on the reliability of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) as a basis for IDA credit disbursement.
The audit report would also include an assessment as to whether goods and services have been procured
from eligible sources, and an opinion on the proper utilization of goods and services under the project. The
auditors' reports would further include a statement on the adequacy or otherwise of the accounting system
and internal controls. The cost of audit would be paid from the IDA Credit. The audited statements,
accounts, auditors' long-form reports and short-form opinion reports would be submitted to IDA not later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year. Assurances to the above audit requirements were
obtained at Negotiations. The appointment of auditors satisfactory to IDA will be a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Implementation Arrangements
4.01          Since the project early preparation stages, the Government has agreed to the principle of
project management by private professionals involved in agricultural export. This materialized through
setting up a Project Coordination Unit fully staffed with qualified and experienced professionals with
private employment status for project preparation. This team including a coordinator/project manager and
two senior local professionals who specialize in export promotion and project management will be
redeployed to carry out new responsibilities in line with the project objectives. Such staff will constitute
the project management team. Project staff will also be complemented with three crop specialists to be
recruited through local competition to provide technical and market development advice to individual
producers/exporters and their associations. The overall supervision of project implementation will be
entrusted to the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources.
4.02          Under the project, the project manager's contract will be made for a period of two years
renewable annually depending on demonstrated performance. The above local professionals will also be
recruited on two year contracts renewable annually upon satisfactory performance too. The professional
organizations participating in the project will contribute from membership fees to share in the operating
costs, as of project year 3 and onward. The project manager's and the local professionals' responsibilities
are summarized in Annex 10.



- 24 -
4.03          The project management team will be assisted by a team of intemationally recruited
technical assistants including an export development and sales specialist with financial/export finance
experience, and a farmer organization specialist who will be paired with the above local professionals.
Such technical assistants will further provide assistance in: (a) promoting the establishment of professional
organizations and of their interprofessional group; (b) preparing the training programs and organizing
training sessions; (c) designing the data base management; (d) setting up appropriate accounting and
financial management systems for the agricultural professional associations and the future interprofessional
group; (e) providing guidance and advice to local professional staff with the objective of helping develop a
local expertise that could overtime become the foundation of a specialized private service for export market
development; and (f) and more generally provide the required training to transfer their knowledge, know-
how and responsibilities to the local professional staff. The technical assistants will be accountable to this
respect and their performance will be evaluated on, among other things, the extent to which such transfer
actually takes place. Ad hoc technical assistant assignments in export logistics and air freight advisory will
be carried out too. The terms of reference of the above technical assistants are presented in Annexes 2 and
3. The above technical assistants' contracts will be financed through bilateral donors' grants for a period of
two years which may be eventually extended for a duration not to exceed twelve months upon satisfactory
performance. Appointment of project management team with key personnel to be satisfactory to IDA at all
times during project implementation would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. To ensure that the
provisions of the Project Implementation Manual and Operational Plan are observed by the project
management, the draft document was discussed at negotiations and found acceptable. The adoption of a
final document acceptable to IDA would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
B. Reporting Arrangements
4.04          Annual Work Programs (AWPs). The Project Management would establish an annual
work program for each project year, for IDA's review and approval. The objectives of the programs would
be (a) to facilitate comprehensive review of project implementation progress, (b) to make possible
adjustments and/or modifications as experience is gained, and (c) to serve as a planning and monitoring
system. The draft AWP would be prepared and submitted to IDA by the Project Management every year
by September 30 for the following year and by September 30, 1995 for the first year. The program would
include: (a) a budget for project activities with the details for each component including the training
component; (b) monitorable targets for project activities; (c) commitments and expected disbursements
under the IDA credit; and (d) a discussion of any major issues and problems affecting the project
implementation and proposed follow-up actions.
4.05          Quarterly Progress Reports (OPRs) and Annual Progress Reports ( APRs). These would
be prepared by the Project Management. Copies of QPRs would be submitted to IDA no later than one
month after the end of each quarter. APRs would be made available to IDA no later than March 31 of the
following year. APRs would incorporate information on and comparison of achievements against targets
set out in AWPs to enable a meaningful review of the project performance to be made by all interested
parties.
4.06          Mid-Term Review and Implementation Completion Report (ICR). To facilitate a timely
and meaningful dialogue between the Government and IDA, and help effect mid-course corrections that
might be required, the Government would, not later than June 30, 1998, carry out jointly with IDA a
comprehensive mid-term review of the project. The review would cover: (a) overall project performance
and agreed key performance indicators; (b) evaluation of project success and problems to draw lessons to
be taken into account in the future expansion of project activities; (c) assessment of the project



- 25 -
sustainability; and (d) evaluation of consultants' and technical assistants' performance. The key mid-term
review indicators are presented in Annex 5. Promptly after completing the mid-term review, the
Government would carry out the recommendations arising out of the review as agreed between the
Government and IDA. The Government would also prepare and submit to IDA an Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) not later than six months after the end of the project. Appropriate assurances
were obtained at Negotiations.
4 07          Monitoring and Evaluation. Project monitoring would be carried out through field visits as
well as written reports. Monitoring field visits would be undertaken as frequently as feasible by the project
management and IDA in the course of project implementation. Written reports would commence with the
preparation of Annual Work Programs (AWPs) and annual project budget prepared well ahead of the
commencement of each project year. The project MIS reports would therefore be designed in such a
manlier as to make them suitable to serve as a management tool and for submission to IDA. The QPRs and
APRs would similarly be action-oriented, drawing attention to exceptions and issues requiring corrective
action.
4.08          General oversight and monitoring of project activities will be carried out through a
Steering Committee to be in charge of reviewing and approving once a year the project's budget and annual
work program including all major contracts. Appropriate assurances were obtained during Negotiations
that the Steering Committee composed of five members will comprise representatives of technical ministries
including the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources and the Ministry of Finance and that of the
private sector and be maintained with functions and responsibilities acceptable to IDA throughout the
execution of the Project. Existing and future professional associations will also be involved in project
execution through thematic technical committees regrouping their representatives to review and follow up
the project actions and priorities and advise the selection of beneficiaries of project support programs
including promotion of professional organizations and export diversification actions. The establishment of
the Steering Committee would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
4.09          The project impact would be evaluated, by reference to the objectives set out for the
project, during and after the project period. This may be done by qualified and experienced university staff
locally. The project management would further arrange to continually assess changes in the project
monitoring indicators. Assurances were obtained on the above reporting arrangements at Negotiations.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATIONS
A. Benefits
5.01          The project will directly benefit over an estimated 100 private enterprises/exporters and
reach indirectly by project completion at least 10,000 growers of non traditional crops who, without this
project, would have little or no hope to develop successful export sales on their own. It will have major
impact on agricultural professional organizations as it will contribute to streamlining existing associations
and helping establish new ones and will thereby empower these organizations to effectively lobby
Government for necessary changes related to their activities while enhancing the ability of these
organizations to represent producers/exporters. The project will also foster improved links between
production and markets, and result in increased exports of agricultural products. The development of non
traditional crop exports will create many new jobs throughout the country for those producers/exporters
engaged in such activities. It will also bring new technology and training to farmers and other professionals
in the trade. It will further move the country from a position of being highly dependent on traditional



- 26 -
commodity crops, such as cocoa, coffee, cotton, etc. to a position of producing high value, branded Ivorian
products which sell at high prices in the off-season in cold countries of Europe and other continents. This
is expected to bring about a significant improvement in the country's balance of payments position. The
project will also result in substantial local value-added because of increased local demand for processed
products which would be an additional outlet for non exportable products. In addition to the above
benefits, the project will enhance the skills and knowledge of farmers and exporters significantly and carry
many farmers from subsistence level farming to a position of profitable producers of high value export
crops.
5.02          The economic rate of return calculated on the incremental exported agricultural production
for nine major non traditional crop channels comprising grated coconut, cashew nuts, essential oils, tropical
flowers, fruits and vegetables was estimated at 17 percent. The concemed crops are high value-added
agricultural products which fetch fairly high selling prices on international markets. The robustness of the
above rate is further explained by the impact of the unprecedented 50 percent devaluation of the local
currency which is having a favorable impact on net margins and the relative share of local production
factors costs such as that of labor. Detailed assumptions and computation of the rate of return are
presented in Annex 7.
B. Risks
5.03          The major foreseeable risk is likely to be a slower than expected private sector supply
response if conflicting interests were to delay the hoped-for improvements in the incentive framework for
agricultural exports. If the implementation of the Government's plan to progressively liberalize sea and air
freights were delayed and tariffs were not adjusted, there might also be a risk that freight costs could price
Ivorian products out of the international market. Such risks would be reduced, however, through the
removal of major economic and sectoral constraints as part of the reforms agreed upon under the
Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) which became effective in November 1994, and those to be supported
through the future Agricultural Structural Adjustment Credit (ASAC), in addition to increased involvement
in lobbying actions by the recently created Air Freight Committee. There is also a risk that government
agencies attempt to interfere with project activities. The strengthening of professional organizations and
eventually their grouping into an interprofessional group of trade associations would empower them to
better represent and defend their interests, remain self-reliant and ensure an effective project
implementation.
C. Environmental Impact
5.04          The environmental analysis of the project concluded that it entails no significant negative
environmental impacts. The industries in the sector are not polluting, the expected increases in cultivated
areas will take place on cleared land, with no impact on natural forests. The main environmental issue
associated with the project is the expected increase in the utilization of agricultural chemicals and
pesticides, in order to meet the quality standards required for exports. A closer analysis of the latter issue
showed that CMte d'lvoire is well advanced in terms of the control of pesticide distribution, thus reducing
the likelihood of negative environmental impacts.  In certain cases, the project will have positive
environmental impacts by creating incentives for planting tree crops and maintaining the existing vegetation
that yields valuable gathered products (i.e., shea nut and kola). In addition, the project may create
incentives for the stabilization of agriculture by promoting environmentally sound cash crops and by
increasing household income in rural areas through the marketing of high value specialized agricultural
products. The project is classified under environmental category B.



- 27 -
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01         During negotiations agreements were obtained from the government:
(a)   to open a Project Account and use of its proceeds (para. 3.11);
(b)    on procurement arrangements (para. 3.08);
(c)    on project implementation in accordance with the procedures established in the
Project Implementation Manual (para. 4.03);
(d)   to establish a Project Coordination Unit and a  Steering Committee with
qualifications and responsibilities acceptable to IDA (paras. 4.03, 4.08).
(e)    on accounting and audits requirements (para. 3.13); and on reporting
arrangements (para. 4.09);
(f)   to carry out of a feasibility study to establish an interprofessional association of
agricultural producers/exporters (para. 2.37).
(g)   to carry out a comprehensive mid-term review of the project, jointly with IDA,
not later than June 30, 1998 (para. 4.06); and
(h)    on project cost sharing (para. 3.02).
6.02         Conditions of Credit effectiveness are as follows:
(a)   to open a Project Account at CAA with an initial deposit of CFA franc
100 million (para. 3.11);
(b)   to appoint independent auditors satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.13);
(c)   to establish a Project Coordination Unit and a Steering Committee with key
personnel satisfactory to IDA (paras. 4.03, 4.08); and
(d)   to adopt the Project Implementation Manual acceptable to IDA (para. 4.03).
6.03         Recommendation. With the above assurances and conditions, the project is suitable for an
IDA Credit of SDR 3.70 million, on standard IDA terms with 40 years of maturity.






COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Pilot Phase Results Matrices
Product                Actions                   Results to date         Expected results at end of pilot    Perspectives for further development
phase                      during actual project
Papava          *   Detailed inventory and    *   Identification of three small  *   Financing for additional  *   Small scale (5-10 ha) plantations are
technical audit of existing  plantations which should      plantations.                   optimal. An additional 1,500 tons
plantations (14 sites).      begin export-quality                                         would require the creation of around
production over the coming   *   Scaling up of current sales  10 additional plantations to be assisted
*   Assistance in the            year.                         by participant to levels to 2  during project.
preparation of two                                         to 3 tons per client (yearly
financing plans for export   *   One financing plan accepted  level of 100 to 150 tons).  *   Euroe: Quality of product justifies
oriented plantations.        (15 M FCFA) by the                                           ambitions to secure a portion of the
National Diversification  *   Testing (samples) of brand     market (more than 9,000 tons and
*   Market development           Fund.                         on US and European             growing), principally supplied by
assistance to a small                                      markets (principally           Central and South American origins.
plantation on European   *  One client per country has     Germany, Austria, Benelux
markets.                     been selected. Each is        and Scandinavia).          *   N. America: Possibility of developing
currently receiving weekly                                   a niche market on the East Coast if
*   Test with five European      shipments of between I and   *   Development of new          product passes regulatory hurdle.
clients (France &            2 tons. Quality considered    customers on these markets.
England).                    comparable to Brazil origin.
* Identification of pesticide
*   Development of a brand   *  Contacts made with a New       and other product testing
(box design, fruit sticker)  York upscale distributor and  requirements and
through local applied arts   with regulatory authorities   implementation with
institute and carton        in view of test shipment.      producers.
supplier.
*  New brand: Plantation
*   Subcontract for              Santa Mara will be
complementary production    launched in 1995.
with Korhogo research
station.                 *  Research station currently
supplies I ton weekly.    _
0  s
o X
0"e-



Product                 Actions                    Results to date          Expected results at end of pilot    Perspectives for further development
phase                        during actual project
Ethnic specialty    *   Birmingham Food &      *   Distribution of market       *   Scaling up of volumes,     *   Development of a significant volume
vegetables            Drink (England) trade fair    information to trade fair       optimization of logistic and    on the Caribbean, African and Asian
stand consisting mainly      participants.                   other costs for existing deal   consumer segment in the European
of African and Asian fresh                                   with British importer: from     Union: cumulative volumes could reach
products (yams, plantain,  *   First shipments of yams by    yams to plantain, cassava,      up to 5,000 tons or more.
cassava, etc.)               sea container (20'-10 tons) to  green coconut, taro, etc.
London. Expected                                           *   Enhancement of product quality.
*   Commercial mission with      frequency: weekly. FOB      *   Development of a "brand" to
two exporters organized      selling value of 4,000 to       protect Ivorian supplier from   *   Development of sea logistical expertise
on the London and            5,000 USD per containers.       direct competition from one-    for the exporters operating in this
surrounding market                                           shot suppliers.                 product segment.
(direct sales contacts).  *   Prospects for 19 different
products to be based on the    *   Preparation of a financing  *   Development of trade in traditional
*   Shipment of samples to        London market with weekly       plan for existing exporters.    products with Senegal, Gabon and
prospective importers on     volumes varying between I                                       other regional markets on specific
the London market.           to 2 tons (air freight) and 5    *   Identification of additional  product lines.
to 10 tons (sea freight).       exporters in this product
*   Commercial mission to                                         group.
Ghana by two exporters
and project to study yam                                 *   Market development with
export industry.                                             Senegalese importers
following the Dakar trade
*   Commercial mission by                                         fair.
British importer to Ivory
Coast (financed by
importer).
*   Participation in Dakar
Intemational Trade Fair
of various traditional food
exporters and
organization of an Ivorian
products week in the
SCORE supermarkets.
OD
0 ti



Product                 Actions                     Results to date         Expected results at end of pilot    Perspectives for further development
phase                           during project
Off season        *   Identification of potential   *   Five operators working on  *   Detailed product spec. sheet  *   Volumes of 200 to 500 tons per
vegetables            producers of high quality     irrigated plantations           and performance evaluation      product niche could be developed
products.                    dispersed throughout the         in various regions of CMte     through the displacement of Central
country participate in the      dlvoire.                        and South American as well as South-
*   Organization of a product    product test.                                                   East Asian origins.
introduction test for four                                *   Test sales of approx. 20
products (melon, okra,   *   Production tests are on          tons on diversified
hot pepper and egg-          schedule. Orders secured in      European mnarkets.
plant): variety selection,   England and France for
packaging, direct market     products traditional imported   *   A first year program of
testing.                     from Mexico and Central          around 100 tons per
America.                        successful product for next
year.
*   Identification and       *   Preparation studies on the   *   Financing plan for existing   *   Diversification of varieties would
preliminary contacts with    industry.                        cooperative.                   pernit market penetration on new
exporters.                                                                                   European markets (England).
*   Test shipments with
existing coop (direct sales
to importers).
*   Training program for coop
outgrowers.
D
04
F-h X
ot%1



Product                Actions                    Results to date           Expected results at end of    Perspectives for further development
pilot phase                   during actual project
Cashew nuts      *   Market development work   *   Majors buyers willing to   *   Pilot quality management    *   Extension of existing unit if efficient
in Europe.                   purchase plant's production.   training program.             quality solutions are developed.
*   Direct technical assistance.   *   Plantation extension and variety
selection to maximize yields.
Desiccated       *   Direct market             *   Development of a marketing   *   Securing orders for 2,000    *   Doubling of present industry output
Coconut              development work on the       handbook for SICOR             tons from North American      from 11,000 to more that 20,000 tons
Canadian and US markets.     addressing specific North      suppliers.                    over project duration.
America quality needs.
*   Participation at the                                    *   Optimizing transit time to    *   Diversification to higher value fancy
Institute of Food        *   Contact with major             less than 28 days to in-land  cuts.
Technologists 94 trade fair  American agents operating      destinations on the East
in Atlanta.                 in the coconut industry. One    Coast.                    *   Diversification to other coconut by-
week mission by one agent                                    products.
*   Test shipment of one         in month following IFT.    *   Successful ISO 9000 pre-
container sent to            Discussion in progress.        audit review.
prospective Canadian
partner.                 *   Bake tests being carried out
in Canada by Quaker and
*   ISO 9000 diagnostic by       Christie Brown among
quality expert.              others: quality and shorter
transit times compare well to
Philippines, the leader.
Impressive quality
management system may
permit ISO certification in
the short term.
(D
0 l-X



Product                  Actions                     Results to date         Expected results at end of pilot    Perspectives for further development
phase                        during actual project
Citrus oils,      *   Discussions among trade    *   Creation of APEPCI - the    *   Documented industry         *   Development of sufficient product
iuices and other      members for the creation       Essential oils and Extracts      product standards.              capacity and stable high quality output
extracts              of a trade association.        trade association.                                               would permit the setting-up of direct
*   Contract with existing lab      sales, partnerships and additional
*   Participation at [FT 94    *   Industry-wide consensus on      facilities for systematic       units.
(Atlanta) and Food             limiting Bergamot oil output    product testing and follow-
Ingredients Europe 94          on a saturated market.          up of product quality.      *   Diversification to high-value aromatic
(London) trade fairs.                                                                          plant extracts.
*   First contact with the      *   Startup of a quality
*   Audit of Quality               producers end customers         management training
management procedures in       (over 60 contacts in each       program in collaboration
the perspective of ISO         trade fairs) in Europe and      with Codinorm.
9000 certification and the     North America.
setting of industry product                                *   Direct sales to end-users.
standards.                *   Improved relationships and
service from current       *   Identification and
*   Assistance in search for       brokers.                        development of additional
extension project financing                                    extension projects.
for an individual company.   *   Co-financing agreement
securing 900 M FCFA
(US$1.7 million) project
due for implementation in
1995.
*   Industry standard setting
program in collaboration
with Codinorm (newly
formed standard
association).
0 
OQ~
-h X
a  -



Product                 Actions                     Results to date           Expected results at end of     Perspectives for further development
pilot phase                  during proposed project
Cut flowers.      *   Participation in the Miflor   *   Necessity of a coordinated    *   Industry promotion   *   Product diversification.
foliage and           94, IPM-Essen 94,             industiy strategic marketing    activities and market
potted plants         Floralies of Nantes,          plan: organization of a         diversification test       *   Quality management programs.
Plantec 94 exhibits of        seminar in collaboration        shipments with selected
several individual            with COLEACP.                   producers.
producers.
*   Follow-up on the trade      *   Quality management
*   Organizational support to     association's activities (ex:   training for line employees.
the existing trade            first horticultural
association.                  organization member of
COLEACP).
*   Development of financing
plans for three companies    *   Financing of a small
operating in the sector.      plantation of semi-finished
plants (15 M FCFA).
Air freiehted     *   Direct industry           *   Slightly improved service.    *   First direct lobbying    *   Gradual liberalization of freight and
Products             representations to Air                                         activities concerning the      reduced cost of shipment to diversified
Afrique during post-      *   Documented file on air          tariff reduction problems.     European destinations.
devaluation capacity          freight constraints.
shortage.                                                 *   Formalization of the air  *   Development of chartered cargo routes
*   No concessions by Air           freight exporters'            managed by the exporters' association.
*   Meeting of exporters and      Afrique and further             association.
formnation of an informal     compressing of export
exporters' conunittee.        capacities.                 *   Development of a charter
cargo scenario.
*   Participation in the 94/95
Air Afrique's air freight
planning process.
*   Inclusion of a study on the
air freight constraints.
aq
0f 



AMVEX 2
Page 1 of 2
COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FARMER ASSOCIATION DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
RESPONSIBILITIES:
The major responsibility of this individual will be to work in the various crop systems, including
but not limited to cashew nuts, cut flowers, fresh fruits and vegetables, essential oils, and any
others as designated by the project management to develop trade organizations for the
farmer/producer groups. It will be necessary that this individual assist in the formation of new
associations and assist existing associations to become viable industry groups which speak out on
behalf of the farmer constituents.
Once fanner associations/groups are formed, the candidate should then work with each individual
group to develop a strategy and plan a course of action from year to year to support its
membership. The candidate would help in the formulation of strategy and plans as well as assist
in selecting management staff for the associations. In addition, the candidate will work with all
the associations to form an interprofessional group which will function as a federation of
associations. This will also require formulation of strategy and tactical planning. Furthermore,
the candidate will provide the required training to transfer knowledge, know-how and
responsibilities to local professional staff and will be accountable to this respect; his performance
will be evaluated on, among other things, the extent to which such transfer actually takes place.
The candidate will be also evaluated on the number of farmer association which he/she develops
over the life of the project and the ultimate effectiveness of these associations in representing its
membership.
QUALIFICATIONS:
Ideal candidate will be an excellent communicator and persuader. Must be energetic, enthusiastic,
tenacious and committed to the project. Will be a strategic thinker and a practical implementer.
Position requires hands-on-style, highly organized individual with excellent organization and
selling skills.



ANNEWX 2
Page 2 of 2
PROFESSIONAL SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE REQUIRED:
Must have at least 5 years professional experience in organizing and working with trade or
industry associations, preferably in agriculture. Work experience must have involved tropical
agriculture and the candidate should be thoroughly familiar with tropical farming, farmer concerns
and the agricultural situation of West Africa and preferably Cote d'Ivoire.
The candidate should have the ability and skill to persuade farmers to join these organizations and
to participate as members.  Must speak French, having high level of written and oral
communication skills and be willing to work in remote, rural areas with farmers.
ACADEMIC TRAINING:
Require agricultural and/or business degree from recognized university at the graduate level.
Language requirement: Fluency in French
DURATION OF ASSIGNMENT: 2 years renewable for a third year upon demonstrated
performance.



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT/SALES SPECIALIST
RESPONSIBILITIES:
The major responsibility of this individual will be to work one-on-one with private farmers and
exporters to identify potential customers in Europe or North America and to assist the
farmer/exporter to establish a business relationship with the potential customer which leads to
export sales. The candidate will work with Ivorian farmers to produce crops which meet the
potential buyer's specifications. This may involve existing crops or newly introduced crops. The
candidate will assist th- producer to meet buyer requirements including the grading and packaging
of products and with shipping arrangements. Assistance will also be provided to individual
producers/exporters in seeking pre-export finance and export documentation, particularly in the
area of food quality and safety (pesticide testing and certification). He will provide guidance and
advice to local professional staff with the objective of helping develop a local expertise that could
overtime become the foundation of a specialized private service for export market development.
The candidate will thus provide the required training to transfer knowledge, know-how and
responsibilities to local professional staff and will be accountable to this respect; his performance
will be evaluated on, among other things, the extent to which such transfer actually takes place.
He will be also evaluated on the number of export projects which he/she develops over the life of
the project and the monetary values of these exports.
QUALIFICATIONS:
Ideal candidate will be an excellent communicator and persuader. Must be energetic, enthusiastic,
tenacious and committed to the project. Will be a strategic thinker and a practical implementer.
Position requires hands-on-style, highly organized individual with  excellent financial and
computer skills.
PROFESSIONAL SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE REQUIRED:
Must have at least 7 years professional, private sector work experience with at least 2 years profit
and loss responsibility. Work experience must have involved tropical agriculture and the
candidate should be thoroughly familiar with European and North American distribution channels



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
for fresh fruits, vegetables, cut flowers and horticultural products. He should have good technical
expertise in the areas of crop production, post harvest systems as well as shipping and logistics
expertise.
The candidate should have the ability and skill to manage a complex project. He must be able to
assist and train local entrepreneurs in the fields of financial and strategic planning. He must speak
French, having high level of written and oral communication skills and be willing to work in
remote, rural areas with farmers.
ACADEMIC TRAINING:
This position will require a business graduate degree (MBA, CPA or equivalent) from a
recognized university.
Language requirement: Fluency in French and good command of English.
DURATION OF ASSIGNMENT: 2 years renewable for a third year upon demonstrated
performance.



ANNEX 4
Page I of 4
COTE D'IVOIRE
PROJET DE PROMOTION ET DIVERSIFICATION DES EXPORTATIONS
AGRICOLES
1. Criteres de selection des beneficiaires du projet.
Le projet vise la promotion de cultures de diversification a haute valeur ajoutee destin6es
principalement A l'exportation. Les beneficiaires en seront les entreprises personnelles
ivoiriennes et societes privees de droit ivoirien ainsi que les associations de
producteurs/exportateurs et autres organisations professionnelles du secteur agricole
d'exportation.
Les types d'activites eligibles comprendront:
(a)   la promotion commerciale et recherche de marches;
(b)   les etudes de faisabilite;
(c)   les actions de recherche pour la promotion, le contr6le de qualite, la
transformation et la conservation des produits;
(d)   les tests d'expedition;
(e)   les services d'appui technique pour la recherche de  financement, le conseil en
comptabilite/gestion et etude juridique, la formation.
a) Criteres techniques.
Les beneficiaires du projet doivent avant tout etre des producteurs ayant demontre leur
savoir-faire et ma7trisant les donnees techniques de la production consideree (production
et conditionnement). Ils doivent donc avoir deja acquis une experience, et etre capables de
demontrer, chiffres .A l'appui, leur capacite a offrir des produits de qualite marchande
export. Cette condition est primordiale d'autant que le PPDEA n'est pas un projet de
recherche agronomique et n'entend pas initier des productions pour lesquelles des facteurs
techniques ne sont pas encore bien ma1tris6s. Certes, un appui technique peut toujours etre
offert, mais pour des producteurs deja bien avertis. Le projet doit donc evaluer la capacite
technique de ses beneficiaires d'une facon realiste et surtout s'abstenir de les encourager a
prendre des risques inconsideres. I1 doit veiller A ce que les conditions d'exploitation
optima soient bien reunies sur le site de production: qualite des terres, disponibilite de
l'eau, climat favorable, etc. Des conditions de production marginales ne seront donc pas
acceptables.



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 4
b) Criteres commerciaux.
Le projet entend promouvoir des productions pour lesquelles un marche existe. II convient
donc de proceder a une etude de marche prealable pour s'en assurer et identifier les
circuits commerciaux possibles et existants. En principe, le promoteur doit deja avoir une
certaine experience dans ce domaine, mais le projet peut l'appuyer pour obtenir de
meilleures conditions et mieux ma7itriser les techniques d'exportation (conditionnement,
formalites administratives et financieres, detaxes a l'exportation, etc.)
c) Criteres personnels.
Le promoteur doit consacrer l'essentiel des ses activites a la bonne marche de son projet. II
doit en principe resider sur son exploitation ou a proximite, la diriger et la surveiller
personnellement. S'il s'agit d'une societ6 (ou groupement, ou cooperative), il faudra bien
connaTtre la personne responsable de l'exploitation (proprietaire ou gerant) pour s'assurer
de ses competences techniques et de gestionnaire. L'experience, les resultats deja acquis
sont des facteurs plus importants que la formation universitaire.
d) Criteres financiers et montants limites d'intervention du PPDEA.
I1 est essentiel que les performances anterieures soient bien connues, que les grands
6quilibres du bilan soient maintenus et que la rentabilite du projet soit assuree.
Chaque beneficiaire du PPDEA sera tenu de faire un apport personnel dont la quotite
moyenne sera:
(a)    pour les actions de promotion et recherche de marche: 40%; soit une contribution
annuelle d'environ de 30% les deux premieres annees, de 40% sur les deux ann6es
suivantes, et de 50% la derniere annee.
(b)    pour l'appui a la recherche: 20%; soit une contribution annuelle d'environ 10% du
demarrage du projet a la fin de la seconde annee, puis de 20% la troisieme annee,
30% la quatrieme annee et 40% la derniere annee.
(c)    pour les services de conseil financier: 30%; soit une contribution annuelle
d'environ 40% du demarrage du projet a la fin de la seconde annee, puis de 40%
sur deux ans a partir de 1998, et de 50% a la derniere annee du projet.
Par ailleurs, des montants limites d'intervention seront de rigueur afin de toucher un
nombre optimal de beneficiaires. Ainsi, les plafonds ci-dessous seront de rigueur en
fonction du statut juridique des beneficiares:



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 4
(a)    pour les entreprises personnelles, la totalite des appuis sollicites aupres du PPDEA
ne pourra exceder un plafond de $25.000 pour un meme beneficiaire pendant la dur6e
d'execution du PPDEA;
(b)   les societes privees pourront beneficier d'une limite d'intervention du PPDEA
n'excedant pas $50.000 par beneficiaire;
(c)    pour les organisations professionnelles agricoles, la limite ci-dessus ne pourrait
exceder $100.000.
2. Modalites d'appui pour le financement des projets
Un des objectifs principaux du projet est de foumir une assistance technique a un ensemble
de    promoteurs    (directement    ou    par    l'intermediaire    de    leurs
associations/unions/organisations professionnelles) cherchant a developper leur production
pour satisfaire une demande exterieure. Dans ce cadre, Le PPDEA pourra aider le
promoteur a rechercher les financements complementaires necessaires pour le
d6veloppement de son exploitation.
Le PPDEA aidera le promoteur a presenter une etude de factibilite de son projet de
developpement. A cette occasion, seront revues tous les aspects techniques, commerciaux,
economiques et de gestion du projet. Ces etudes de factibilit6, avec les comptes detailles
de l'exploitation existante, doivent servir a l'evaluation du projet par une institution
financiere.
Le PPDEA ne sera pas dote d'une ligne de credit speciale. En effet, il existe deja des lignes
de credit disponibles pour des promoteurs du secteur prive mises en place par des
organisations financieres bilaterale ou intemationales. Ces lignes sont pour le moment sous
utilis6es en raison de la difficulte a identifier des projets et des promoteurs. Les banques
commerciales peuvent aussi offrir des financements d'appoint pour la majorite des
promoteurs prospectes a ce jour par le PPDEA. Enfin, le Gouvernement a mis en place le
fonds de diversification cite ci-dessus dote de 1,25 milliard de FCFA. La contrainte au
d6veloppement de ces projets n'est pas le manque de financement, mais la capacite des
promoteurs A les mobiliser.
3. Modalites d'appui en matiere de conseil en gestion
D'une facon generale, le PPDEA devrait pouvoir disposer d'un kit de procedures
comptables et de gestion a suivre pour le mettre a la disposition des projets qu'il
encourage. Ce kit pourrait egalement comprendre les indicateurs de gestion techniques et
financiers A suivre d'une facon reguliere.
De meme, le PPDEA devrait disposer de competences en matiere juridique et fiscale. II
pourrait en effet avoir a conseiller les promoteurs dans des domaines varies allant de la
creation d'entreprises (choix des types de societe, statuts), modalites de financement a



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 4
1'exportation ( techniques bancaires, credits documentaire, role des transitaires), et options
fiscales (TVA, detaxe a 1'exportation, avantages du code des investissements).
Les demandes en ces domaines peuvent etre tres variables d'un projet a un autre et il serait
trop onereux pour le PPDEA de recruter un ou plusieurs experts. Par consequent, le
PPDEA fera appel i un cabinet de la place specialise, sous une forme d'abonnement, pour
repondre aux besoin du projet a la demande des promoteurs. Eventuellement, le PPDEA
pourrait demander i ce cabinet des prestations en matiere de formation donnee a un
ensemble de promoteurs sur des sujets specifiques.



ANNEX 5
Page J of ]
COTE D'IVOIRE
EXPORT PROMOTION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
KEY PROJECT MONITORABLE INDICATORS
| Pilot                      Md-ten                     Project Year 5
_________                      Evaluation                ____o
1. GENERAL
Export sales volume per product
Desiccated coconut                                                                                                                            9 000 T                    1400T                          17 000 T
Cashew nuts - raw/extracted                                                                                                                15.000/50 T                16,000/600 T                 14,000/1,000 T
...............................................................                      ..............    ..    ........................................    . .......         ..................... ..... .   .......  t...................
Essential oils and extracts (citrT  and others)                                                                                                IIOT                        200 T                          250T
Tropical flowers, foliage and plants                                                                                                          1,400 T                     1,90 T                        2,200 T
Mango                                                  ,               ,   ,           ,       .     -  -         -  - --  -- --              5,400 T                     8,150 T                       8,650 T
Papaya                                                                                                                                         400 T                       800 T                         1000 T
Off-Scason vegetables                                                              1.0 T                                                                                          . T. .  .               350 .T
Ethnic specialties                                                                                                                            1,700T                      3000T                         4,000 T
No. of exporters identified/participating in project                                                                                                 60                          80                            100
No. of non traditional crop producers reached                                                                                                    5000                          7 000                         10 000
2 MARKETDEVELOPMENT                                                                                                                                                                   I
Number of exporter/importer relationships formed                                                                                                         .40                                                    80
Number oftnal shipments                                                                                       '                                      20                            0                           150
......................................................................................................      --. -.--.-....- - -.''.''''''''''''''''''':''''1''''''''''''''''''' '
Trsde  sho   s orgai zed                                                                                                                              10.... ...    ., ,, ..45............4.    ... ....... . 5 4
Numboerofparticipants                                                                                    .   . - - .                              40                         100                           200
Exporters' parlticipation to cost                                                                                                               30%                         40a/s                          50%
......      .. ..     ..     .. .............   ......   --.---.     ......  - - --   ..   .     .. -   ,-'''' -'''''' ''1.''.''. ''.'' '' '''' ..     .. ..     .. ..     ..     .......     ..     .. ...     ..............    %
New packagigs/brands developed                                                                                                           1   ,           -         J,            15                             25
Promotional events and matrenal                                                                                                                       2                           10                            25
..   . ......   ..   ... .... ...... ... ......   ..   .. ......... ..  .. .   .   .   ...... .   .                                                              .     . ..      ....   . . .......   .. . .   . ...   .. .   .. . . .   . . . . . . . . .   .. ---------  '''''''' '''''-'-'''
3 ASSISTANCETOPROFESSIONAL ORGANIATIONS                                                                                                                      I |
New  trade associations formed                                                                                                            J           2                           4               1.             7
Membership levels and strategic plans developed                                                                                                    29/2                        40/4              .            75/7.
...      ............     . ..................        ..     ...     ................   ..........................................     ..     .............................. .......... ................................. ....................... ..... ............. ...................
Number and circulation of market information newvslettrs                                                                                           I / 203/150
..... .... ....  ..  . .... ....  ..... ....  .... .... ....  .... ....    .     .. .... .... .     .. .... ....   .... .... .... .... .... .... ..... .... .... .... .... .... ..... .... .... .... .... .... ..... .... .... .... .... .... ....
Sectoral events organized                 ,,,                          ,,,,,           ,       ,,,                          ,      ,             ,,I         ,,,,          ,.4                  .8
i-  A          Tl SE    RCH''''''''       ''''''''''''''''''-k ~   . .....  ........ ............................................ .......... .. ..... .......... ............. .......... ............. .............. .............  .... ...... ..............
Number of export oriented research programs set up/ number participants                                                                             2 / 8                      10/50                         20 100
~~~~~~.......                ........   . .....      ........     .......................     .............................................................. ......... .......................   ...............................     ... ............ ........     ..... ..................
% participationof exportersto program costs                                                                                                         l                           20%                           40%
Pesticide testing and certification innplementation                                                                                                  no             .            yes.                          ye
................................      ............................... !   .......................................................................... ........................ I  .. .....................    .... ......................
Number of CODINORM Ivonan labels issued                                                                                                                                           3                              5
ISO or other international certifications obtained                                                                                           I      I...[.
.    .  .. .   .   .  .. .    . . ..  .  ..  . . ...   . ...   . ........   ..   .....   ..   .. .....   ..   . ....   .   . ..   . ..   .....   ..   .   . ....   .......   ..   ..   . .......   ....  ..   ........... ------ .. . .   .  6..............''''''''''''''' '''''''''''''''
Number of new products                                                                                                                     j 4                                    10                            15
5. FINANCIAL ADVISORY SERVICES                                                                                                                                          .                                                      . . . . . . .
Numnber and value of successful export financing projects financed
Small busineses (less t   10eployee4s)                                                                                               4/120 KUSD   15 / 500 KUSD    25 / 800KUSD
Medium businesses (over 10 employees)                                                                                                  12/2.5 mUSD   4/I0.0 m USD   8/20.OmUSD
Va participation of exporters to costs                                                                                                            30%                         40OV 50%
.. . ............       . .....     .........................   .......     ..     .................  . ......    .....     ......................    .....     ..    .....................  .......................    .........    ........  ....   . . ..     .........     .....,. ... ..
6S. INFRASTRUCTURE
6SRC,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,..................                  .   .      .   . ..........................    ....    . .    ... . . . ..........,,, ......................  . ..                         ............    ..........................
Fruit wharf rehabilitation                       ,                                                                                 .no                                     conmpleted
.........................                                                 .      .....     ..........    ,,   ,, ..   .......     .. . ,      ..   .     ...................... ............                          .....       ....     ..     ...     .. ......
Upgrade of airport handlu  and specialized storage facilities                                                                            [                                completed
New packa                   fcl;ities setup                                                                                                                                       2                              6 '
Number                                                                                                                               |I                            
Ca   t utit zed                                                                                                          40%                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~75%
'i -  i        ~           R     a.................................. ... ... .... ... .. ...............                                                        .  .. ... ..   . ... ...  .................   ........ ........... ...
.Caacity.utilizd                          .. . . . .                                                      ,''                                                       -'''''''                                  5
.................. ..Y.,,, .                                                                                                                                1                                     .......... ...
Progremss   ir f eigt compeitive environment                                                                                              I
Number of charter cargo shipments                                                                                                                  0                    test flights           .         regular
Relative freight rate levels (US cents/kg)                                                                                                       100                          90                            90
Number of newvdiret tdestinations and avaiabie volume                                                                                      0/8.500 T                  2  12,000 T                    5/15.000T



COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION AND DIVERSIICATION PROJECT
Components Cost Summary
...................................................................I............"I....................  ..........  ................"I..........I............................................
*  %           %Totol
(CFA '000)                                 (USS '000)                     Foreign         Bow.
LOCO           Foreign          Total         Locl        Foreign         Total        Eschuge         Cost
A. EXPORT PROMOTION AND DIVERSIFICATION ACTIONS
Adaptive Researdc                                                            277,267          287,917        565,183         576.4          598.6        1,175.0          5I               8.
Market Developnent                                                           909,227         1,035,064      1,944,291      1,890.3        2,151.9       4,042.2           53              27.
Financial Advisory Services                                                 225,153                  -       225,153         468.1                        468.1            -               31
Subtotal EXPORT PROMOTION AND DIVERSIFICATION ACTIONS                               1i411,6 471,322,981              2,734,627       2,934.8        2,750.5       5,685.3          48               38
B. SUPPORT TO PRODUCERS/EXPORTERS ORGANIZATIONS                                       690,810           556,352      1,247,163       1,436.2        1,156.7       2,592.9          45               17-
C. EXPORT FACILITIES UPGRADE                                                         1,112,530          474,355      1,586,885       2,313.0         986.2        3,299.1          30               22.
D. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                                                 453,713           177,808        631,521        943.3          369.7        1,312.9          28                9
'   PROJECT PREPARATION                                                                96,200           865,800        962,000        200.0         1,800.0       2,000.0          90               13
Tota BASELINECOSTS                                                                    3;764,899        3,397,296      7,162,196       7,827.2        7,063.0       14,890.2         47              10i
Physical Contingencies                                                       248,760          102,221        350,982         517.2          212.5         729.7          29                5
Price Contingencies                                                          267,421          107,791        375,211         556.0          224.1         780.1          29                5-
ToTal PROJECT COSTS                                                                   4,281,080         3,607,309     7,888,389       8,900.4        7,499.6       16,4000           46             i 0
...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
0 m



COTE D'IVOIRE
Aericuitural Exoort Promotion and Diversification Protect
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Sununary
(CFA '000)                              (USS '000)                Foreign     Base
Local        Foreign         Total        Local       Foreign       Total     Exchange   Costs
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                                                 1,095,577       467,133      1,562,710      2,277.7      971.2       3,248.9         30        22
B. Vehicles, Equipment
Vehicles                                                                       77,691         94,804        172,494       161.5       197.1        358.6         55         2
Equipment                                                                     249,692        248,586       498,278        519.1       516.8       1,035.9        50         7
Subtotal Vehides, Equipment                                                     327,382        343,390        670,772       680.6       713.9       1,394.5        51          9
C. Traiing & Human Resources Development
Local Training                                                                198,656        132,157       330,813        413.0       274.8        687.8         40         5
Overseas Training                                                                   -         30,815        30,815            -        64.1         64.1        100         -
Subtota.lTraidng&Human ResourcesDevelopment                                     198,656        162,972        361,628       413.0       338.8         751.8        45          5
D. Technical Assistance
Local Technical Assistance                                                    598,821              -       598,821      1,244.9           -       1,244.9         -         8
Foreign Technical Assistance                                                        -      1,583,110      1,583,110           -     3,291.3       3,291.3       100        22
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                   598,821       1,583,110     2,181,931      1,244.9     3,291.3      4,536.2        73        30
E. Studies                                                                      302,056        579,800        881,856       628.0      1,205.4      1,833.4        66         12
Total Investment Costs                                                           2,522,491      3,136,405     5,658,896      5,244.3     6,520.6     11,764.9         55        79
I. Recurrent Costs
A. PROJECT CONTRACTUAL STAFF SALARIES
Professional Staff                                                            584,060              -       584,060      1,214.3           -       1,214.3         -         8
Support Staff                                                                 189,820              -       189,820       394.6            -        394.6                    3
Subtotal PROJECT CONTRACTUAL STAFF SALARIES                                     773,880              -        773,880      1,608.9                  1,608.9          -       11
B. STAFF TRAVEL EXPENSES
Professional Staff DSA                                                        148,734         75,075       223,809       309.2        156.1        465.3         34         3
Support StaffDSA                                                               54,126                       54,126        112.5           -        112.5          -         I
Subtotal STAFF TRAVEL EXPENSES                                                  202,860         75,075       277,935        421.7       156.1         577.8        27         4
D. VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance                                              60,603         75,951       136,553        126.0       157.9        283.9         56         2
Equipment Operation and Maintenance                                            24,739         30,086        54,826         51.4        62.5        114.0         55         1
Subtotal VEHICLESAND EQUIPMENT OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                         85,342        106,037        191,379       177.4       220.5        397.9         55         3
E. GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE CHARGES                                           180,327         79,780       260,106        374.9       165.9         540.8        31         4
Total Recurrent Costs                                                            1,242,408       260,892      1,503,300     2,583.0       542.4       3,125.4        17        21
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                              3,764,899     3,397,296      7,162,196     7,827.2     7,063.0      14,890.2        47       100
Physical Contingencies                                                          248,760        102,221       350,982        517.2       212.5        729.7         29         5
Price Contingecies                                                              267,421        107,791       375,211        556.0       224.1        780.1         29         5
Totad PROJECT COSTS                                                               4,281,080     3,607,309      7,888,389     8,900.4     7,499.6      16,400.0        46       110
8)
ot,z



COTE D'IVOIRE
Arricu.1tural Export Promotion and Diversification Prolect
LocalfForeign/Taxes by financicrs
(US$ -000)
Government                 IDA                CIDA                European Union           Japanese Grant        Producers/Exporters          Total.
Amount      %       Amount    %,        Amount       %:               Amount   %i             Amount %          ~      Amount   %:  Amount           %
!I. Foreign                   73.80491      1    2353.679   31.4~  3019.882   40.3:                   1107.55  14.8              600  8:              344.6872   4.6: 7499.602    45.7
~11. Local (Excl. Taxes)      279.1241    3.9    3479.006   48.5,    334.4471    4.7'                 1714.51  23.9::              0  0               1366.625  19.1: 7173.713    43.7~
:Ill. Taxes                   738.5646   42.8             0      0:   66.19379    3.8::              921.904  53.4:                0  0:                     0    0:: 1726.662    10.S5
Total Pro ect:          1091.494    6.7      5 832i.6~85 K 3.6..... 3-4-20...5"2"3  2'0.9:    3743.963  22.8:              600 3.7:             1711.312  10.4: 16399.98     100
z~~~
IA'd



ANNEX 7
Page I of 7
Republic of CMte d'Ivoire
Agricultural Export Promotion and Diversification Project
Economic Analysis
Assumptions
1.01          The computation of the Internal Economic Rate of Return (IRR) is based on the determination of
the incremental agricultural product export by producers / exporters supported under the project through estimating
the without- and with-project situations. A conservative approach was adopted in view of the projected exports
representing the lowest levels of export the project can achieve during its lifetime. Agricultural export products are
valued at F.O.B. prices used in computing the net export margins. No further adjustment of the exchange rate was
effected in view of the unprecedented 50% devaluation of the CFA franc (from CFAF50 to lFrench Franc to
CFAF100 to 1 French Franc) on January 12, 1994. Thus the foreign exchange premium is assumed to be equal to
zero. Interest payments, amortization and taxes were removed from the financial costs to make up the economic
costs.
1.02          The opportunity cost of capital of 12% was used in the calculations. On the basis of what
precedes, the IRR of the production component is estimated at 17 % for 15 years net benefit streams, and the NPV
is approximately $5.7 million. Such a rate appears robust particularly in view of the results of the sensitivity
analysis which further shows that if the investment costs increase by 10%, the net benefits will decrease by 14%
and the IRR falls to 13%; as the investment costs further increase by 20%, the benefits decrease by 28% and the
IRR falls to 10% which is close to the preceding 13%. The IRR falls to zero only in the unlikely situtation when
the investment costs increase by 69%. In contrast, if investment costs decrease by 10%, net benefits will increase by
14% and the IRR will increase to 21%. On the other hand, if the net incremental benefits decrease by 10%/o, the IRR
falls to 12%, and decreases to 8% as the net benefits diminish by 20%. At a 41% decrease of net incremental
benefits the IRR reaches zero and becomes negative at 44% decrease of benefits. Detailed projections by crop of the
overall project cash flows are presented below.
Pro*ect Economic Analysis by Crop
Essential Oils and Extracts (citrus and others)
Year   Quantity wlo Project  Quantity w/ Project  Export Margin        Cash Flow
(metric ton)        (metric ton)          (1S.S/T)               (US.S)
I            140                  150               4505.19              45051.9
2            150                  180                                   135155.7
3            160                  200                                   180207.6
4            170                  215                                   202733.6
5            180                  250                                   315363.3
6            180                  250                                   315363.3
7            180                  250                                   315363.3
8            180                  250                                   315363.3
9            180                  250                                   315363.3
10           180                  250                                   315363.3
11           180                  250                                   315363.3
12           180                  250                                   315363.3
13           180                  250                                   315363.3
14           180                  250                                   315363.3
15           180                  250                                   315363.3
TOTAL         2 600                3 495                                  4032145.1



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 7
Proiect Economic Analysis by Cron
Grated Coconuts
Year   Quantity w/o Project  Quantity w! Project  Export Margin         Cash Flow
(metric ton)         (metric ton)            ($/T)                 (S)
1          12000                13000                 170.22              170220
2          12 500               14 000                                    255330
3          13000                15000                                     340440
4          14000                16000                                     340440
5          15 000               17000                                     340440
6          15000                17000                                     340440
7         15 000                17000                                     340440
8          15000                17000                                     340440
9          15000                17000                                     340440
10         15000                 17000                                     340440
11         15 000                17000                                     340440
12         15000                 17000                                     340440
13         15000                 17000                                     340440
14         15000                 17000                                     340440
15         15000                 17000                                     340440
TOTAL       216 500               245 000                                   4851270
Project Economic Analysis by Cron
Ethnic Specialties
Year   Quantity w/o Project  Quantity w/ Project  Export Margin         Cash Flow
(metric ton)         (metric ton)          (U..S. /T)             (U.S.)
1           1 900                2 100                 195.4            39083.37
2          2200                  2600                                      70940
3          2400                  3000                                     106410
4          2700                  3500                                     141880
5          3 000                 4000                                     177350
6          3 000                 4000                                     177350
7          3 000                 4000                                     177350
8           3 000                4 000                                    177350
9          3 000                 4000                                     177350
10          3 000                4000                                      177350
11          3 000                4000                                      177350
12          3 000                4000                                      177350
13          3 000                4000                                      177350
1 4         3 000                4000                                      177350
15          3 000                4000                                      177350
TOTAL        42 200                55 200                                   2309163



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 7
Proiect Economic Analysis by Crop
Extracted Cashew Nuts
Year   Quantity w/o Project   Quantity w/ Project    Export Margin          Cash Flow
(metric ton)          (metric ton)            (U.S.$/7)               (US.S)
I             350                   600                   637.2               159300
2             450                    700                                      159300
3             450                   800                                       223020
4             550                   900                                       223020
5             550                  1 000                                      286740
6             550                  1000                                       286740
7             550                  1000                                       286740
8             550                  1000                                       286740
9             550                  1000                                       286740
10            550                  1 000                                       286740
11            550                  1 000                                       286740
12            550                  1 000                                       286740
13            550                  1 000                                       286740
1 4           550                  1 000                                       286740
15            550                  1 000                                       286740
TOTAL          7 850                 14 000                                     3918780
Project Economic Analysis by Crop
Tropical Flowers and Foliage
Year   Quantity w/o Project   Quantity w/ Project    Export Margin          Cash Flow
(mernc ton)           (metric ton)            (US./T)                (US.5)
1             850                   850                   286.5                     0
2             850                   900                                      14324.32
3             850                  1000                                      42972.97
4             850                  1 050                                      57297.3
5             850                  1100                                      71621.62
6             850                  1100                                      71621.62
7             850                  1100                                     71621.62
8             850                  1100                                      71621.62
9             850                  1100                                      71621.62
20            850                  1100                                      71621.62
11            850                  1100                                      71621.62
12            850                  1100                                      71621.62
13            850                  1100                                      71621.62
14            850                  1100                                      71621.62
15            850                  1100                                      71621.62
Total        12 750                 15 900                                    902432.4



ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 7
Proiect Economic Analysis by Cron
Mangoes
Year   Quantity w/o Project   Quantity w/ Projet     Exrt Magin             Cash Flow
(metric ton)          (metric ton)            (tJS.$SF) .7.(S.S)
1           7100                   7 100                  272.3                     0
2           6 750                  7 650                                     245114.5
3           6 750                  8 150                                     381289.3
4           6 750                  8 650                                      517464
5           6 750                  8 650                                      517464
6           6 750                  8 650                                      517464
7           6 750                  8 650                                      517464
8           6 750                  8 650                                      517464
9           6 750                  8 650                                      517464
10          6 750                  8 650                                       517464
11          6 750                  8 650                                       517464
12          6 750                  8 650                                       517464
13          6 750                  8 650                                       517464
14          6 750                  8 650                                       517464
15          6 750                  8 650                                       517464
Total       101 600                126 700                                      6835972
Proiect Economic Analysis by Crov
Off-season vegetable
Year   Quantity w/oProject    Quantity w/ Project    Export Magin           Cash Flow
(metric ton)          (metric ton)            (J. S $/T)              (U.S )
1             40                    150                  245.3              26985.26
2              50                   200                                      36798.09
3              50                   250                                     49064.12
4              50                   300                                     61330.15
5              50                   350                                      73596.17
6              50                   350                                     73596.17
7              50                   350                                     73596.17
8              50                   350                                      73596.17
9              50                   350                                     73596.17
10             50                    350                                     73596.17
11             50                    350                                     73596.17
12             50                    350                                     73596.17
13             50                    350                                     73596.17
14             50                    350                                     73596.17
15 J50                               350                                     73596.17
Total          740                   4 750                                    983735.53



ANNEX 7
Page S of 7
Project Economic Analysis by Crop
Papaya
Year   Quantity w/o Project  Quantity w/ Project  Export Margin        Cash Flow
(metric ton)         (metric ton)          (U.S.$/ T)            (U.S.$)
1            420                  600                 434.5               78,212
2            440                  700                                    112,973
3            460                  800                                    147,734
4            480                  900                                    182,495
5            500                 1000                                    217,256
6            500                 1000                                    217,256
7            500                 1000                                    217,256
8            500                 1000                                    217,256
9            500                 1000                                    217,256
10           500                 1 000                                   217,256
11           500                 1000                                    217,256
12           500                 1 000                                   217,256
13           500                 1 000                                   217,256
14           500                 1 000                                   217,256
15           500                 1000                                    217,256
Total        7300                 14000                                   2,911,229
Project Economic Analysis by Cron
Air Pineapple
Year   Quantity w/o Project  Quantity w/ Project  Export Margin        Cash Flow
(metric ton)        (metric ton)           (U.S./T)              (U.S. $)
1          3500                 6000                    62               155,926
2          3000                  7000                                    249,481
3          2500                  8000                                    343,037
4          2000                  9000                                    436,592
5           1 500                9000                                    467,777
6          1500                  9000                                    467,777
7          1 500                 9000                                    467,777
8           1500                 9000                                    467,777
9           1500                 9000                                    467,777
10          1500                 9000                                    467,777
11          1500                 9000                                    467,777
12          1500                 9000                                    467,777
13          1500                 9000                                    467,777
14          1500                 9000                                    467,777
I5          1500                 9000                                    467,777
Total       27 500               129 000                                  6,330,587



ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 7
Proiect Economic Analysis by Crop
Tropical plants
Year   Quantity w/o Projec    Quantity w/ Projet    Export Margin         Cash Flow
(metnc ton)           (metric ton)          (U.S.SIT)              (US. S)
1            650                   700                  1,189                59,459
2            650                    800                                     178,378
3            650                    900                                     297,296
4            650                  1000                                      416,214
5            650                  1100                                      535,133
6            650                  1 100                                     535,133
7            650                  1100                                      535,133
8            650                  1100                                      535,133
9            650                  1 100                                     535,133
10            650                 1100                                      535,133
11            650                  1100                                     535,133
12            650                  1100                                     535,133
13            650                  1100                                     535,133
14            650                  1 100                                    535,133
15            650                  1 100                                    535,133
Total         9 750                15 500                                    6,837,804



ANNEX 7
Page 7 of 7
Proiect Economic Analysis by Crop
Overall Pro*ect cash flows
Total
Casvw  Essential Oils  Tropical   Air   Mangoes  Ethnic  Off-season undiscounted InVeStment Discount DIscounted
Year  Gatd Coco  Nuts    & Extracts   Fowers  Pineapple  Papaya  Specialties  Vegelables  Cash Flow  Factor  Cash Flow
U.S.  U.S.$    U.S.$    U.S.$   U.S.$   U. S. $   U.S.$   U.S $   U.S.$     U.S.$     US.$   12%S
170,220 159,300    45,052      0 155,926      0  78,212  39,083    26,985    674,778 2,650,200    0.89 -1,763,769i
2     255,330 159,300    135,156  14,324 249,481 245,115 112,973  70,940    36,798   1,279,417 2,290,400    080 -805,9501,
3     340,440 223,020    180,208  42,973 343,037 381,289 147,734 106,410   49,064   1,814,175 2,242,600    0.71 -304,9451,
4     340,440 223,020   202,734  57,297 436,592 517,464 182,495 141,880   61,330   2,163,252 1,752,100    0.64  261,2951
.5    340,440 286,740   315,363  71,622 467,777 517,464 217,256 177,350    73,596   2,467,608 1,776,900    0-57  391,9271
6     340,440 286,740    315,363  71,622 467,777 517,464 217,256 177,350    73,596   2,467,608        0.51 1,250,1671
7    340,440 286,740    315,363  71,622 467,777 517,464 217,256 177,350    73,596   2,467,608         0.45 1,116,220ie
8     340,440 286,740   315,363  71,622 467,777 517,464 217,256 177,350   73,596   2,467,608          0.40  996,6251
9     340,440 286,740   315,363  71,622 467,777 517,464 217,256 177,350   73,596   2,467,608          0.36  889,844g
10    340,440 286,740   315,363  71,622 467,777 517,464 217,256 177,350   73,596   2,467,608          0.32  794,503
11    340,440 286,740   315,363  71,622 467,777 517,464 217,256 177,350   73,596   2,467,608          0.29  709,378
12    340,440 286,740    315,363  71,622 467,777 517,464 217,256 177,350   73,596   2,467,608         0.26  633,373
13    340,440 286,740   315,363  71,622 467,777 517,464 217,256 177,350   73,596   2,467,608          0.23  565,512
14    340,440 286,740   315,363  71,622 467,777 517,464 217,256 177,350   73,596   2,467,608          0.20  504,922
15    340,440 286,740   315,363  71,622 467,777 517,464 217,256 177,350   73,596   2,467,608          0.18  450,822
Tofid   4,31,270 3,918,780   4,032,145  902,432 6,330,587 6,835,972 2,911,229 2,309,163   983,736   33,075,314  5,689,925
IRR     17%



ANNEX8
Page I of I
COTE D 'IVOIRE
Atricultural Export Promotion and Diversfication Project
Procurement Implementation Schedule
Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Pre-                                                         Total
Project Element                 Project                       3Project ear         _             Payrent       Remarks
_ _ _      1        2         3         4            5       _    _    _
Credit Timing                   (0.40)     (1.35)    (1.29)    (1.05)     (0.94)      (0. 80)      (5.83)
SigvEffec/Close                                   _
Consultancies                               1.21      1.21     1.02       0.62         0.55         4.61
TA and Consultancies                       (0.47)    (0.52)    (0.33)     (0.37)      (0.29)       (1.98)      Bankguidelines
___________    _______                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~for_consultants
GLoods
Vehicles                                    0.56     0.17      0.34       0.23         0.33         163        NCB
Equipment and Materials                    (0.21)    (0.10)    (0.20)    (0.13)      (0.207         (0.84)    _
Civil Works                                 1.82      1.87                                          3.69       NBF
Miscellaneous
Training                         2.00       0.88     0.91       0.88      0.90         0.90         6.47       Other
Incr. Recurrent Costs           (0.40)     (0.67)    (0.67)    (0.52)     (0.44)      (0.31)        (3.01)     LS/Other
Refinancing PPF
TOTAL                            2.00       4.47     4.16       2.24       1.75        1.78         16.40
IDA-Financed                    (0.40)     (1.35) -(129)        -05       (0-94)      50.80)        (5.83
GOODS DETAILED DESCRIPTION
Items                 Unit           PYI           PY2           PY3            PY4           PY5           Total
4WD Vehicles                  unit                      I                            1                            1             3
Regular Vehicles              unit                      2                            3                            2             7
Micro-computers
& accessories                 unit                      6                                         12                           18
Software, Network, etc...    lump sum               5 600                                                                   5 600
Copy machines                 unit                      1                            1                            1             3
Phone & fax equipment (S)    lump sum              21 300                                                   11.300         32.600
Research Equipment (S)        lump sum             33 400        34 200        35 100         36 000        36 900        175 700
Publishing & Informative
Materials (S)                 lump sum             11 600        11 900         12 200        12 500        12 800         60 900
Market Promotion
Materials (S)                 lump sum             66 900        68 400         58 500        60 000        36900         290 800



ANNEX 9
Page I of I
COTE D'IVOIRE
Atricultural Promotion and Diversification Proiect
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(in USS)
IDA Fiscal Year and  Quarterly        Annual            Cumulative            Cumulative
Quarter Ending      Disbursements    Disbursements    Disbursements          Disbursements in %
FY 96II
ZMar. 31, 1996              699 9601                                699 960                    1
Jun. 30, 1996                116 660          816 620 '             816 6201
.Sep. 30, 1996               174 990                               991 6101                   171
,'Dec. 31, 1996             233 320                                1 224 9301                  21
Mar. 31, 1997               233 320                    |           1 458 2501                  25
"Jun. 30, 1997              233 320W          874 950              1 691 570!                  29
FY98
"Sep.30,1997                291650,                                19832201                    34
,Dec. 31, 1997              291 650                                2 274 870                   39
,Mar. 31, 1998              349 980W                               2 624 8045
"Jun. 30, 1998             1291 650          1 224930              2 916500.                   5o
a. FY99       ,                 s       
Sep. 30, 1998              291 6501                               3 208 150-                  55
JDec. 31, 1998              291 6501                               3 499 8001                  60
NMar. 31, 1999              408 3100                               3 908 1101                  67
SJun. 30, 1999              466 6400         1 458 2501            4 374 750,                  75
FY00         ^5                    
LSep. 30, 1999              291 650                                4 666 4001                  80
'Dec 31, 1999               233 320|                               4 899 7201                  84
,Mar. 31, 2000               174 990                               5 074 7101                  87
~Jun. 30, 2000               174 990l         874 950              S 249 700i                  90
FY01 O
K.Sep. 30, 2000   ,          17499                                 5424 6901                   93
IDec. 31, 2000               174 9901                              5 599 6801                  96
kMar. 31, 2001               116 660.                              5 716 340,                  98
JSun. 30, 2001   . >        116 660W         583 300  ;           5 833 0001                 100
ts s.flo   ~%'C'MCC.       .  ~ 4   00.0000400  .           .__:w__ _____________



ANNEX JO
Page I of I
COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT MANAGER AND LOCAL PROFESSIONALS
RESPONSIBILITIES
1.01         The project manager will have the following management, coordination and
monitoring responsibilities under the project:
(a)   implementing the project and coordinating and monitoring overall project
execution;
(b)   liaising with the Government (MINAGRA, ANADER), donors (IDA, CIDA,
GTZ, etc.) and international professional organizations concerned with
agricultural exports, including COLEACP, UNCTAD, ITC, AFNOR, etc;
(c)    preparing the project's AWPs, annual budgets, accounts, progress reports,
disbursement applications and procurement documentation;
(d)    contracting and supervising the execution of contracts with specialized
institutions and technical assistants for product quality improvement and
dissemination of export standards (CODINORM), adaptive research
(IDEFOR, CIRAD, etc.), technical agricultural advice (NGOs); and
(e)    monitoring project implementation.
1.02.        The senior local professionals responsibilities will include the following:
(a)    helping the formal establishment of professional organizations;
(b)    preparing the organizations' preliminary business plans including budgets and
financing options;
(c)   following up and advising on the efficient use of technical packages pertaining
to specific export crop production;
(d)    disseminating information on product quality requirements and other export
normns;
(e)    coordinating promotion actions including fairs, business tours and market
tests;
(f)    coordinating training activities and field demonstrations;
(g)    assistance in data management and dissemination including memberships,
production and price indicators; and
(h)    helping liaise with other parties such as the Government, donors and
international professional organizations.



ANWEX 11
Page I of 4
COTE D'IVOIRE
Agricultural Export Promotion and Diversification Project
ANALYSIS OF FREIGHT IMPACT
The following calculations are intented to present an assessment of the freight impact on the
profitability of Ivorian agricultural products. The results indicate that, despite relatively high
transportation costs, Ivorian products are not likely to be priced out of the international market,
especially for tropical fruits, flowers, bananas and pineapple. They also demonstrate that
profitability of Ivorian products may be improved through lower freight tariffs policy as in
competing countries like Cameroon, Kenya and South Africa.
The following results are based on a piece of analysis using a mathematical programming
approach. The analysis consisted of designing transportation linear programming models so as to
produce the optimal combination of agricultural products traffics which minimizes transportation
cost on the overall market. In other words, this allows to measure exporting countries
competitiveness with respect to freight tariffs.
Data Collection. The export sector is an area where information is very costly to share with
outsiders. This explains why, in absence of a formal study by professionals, it has not been easy to
get precise information on maritime freight. However, It was possible to get information on the
average maritime freight tariffs for banana and pineapple exported from Costa-Rica to Europe.
Air freight data were drawn from the study by Airport Planning Associates (APA), Inc., which
dealt with tropical fruits and flowers only. They were presented for eight exporting countries
including Cote d'Ivoire and six importing countries comprising both European and North
American countries which are the most representative of the market.
Method and Procedure. The analysis is based on the linear programming method - i.e., an iterative
process with an exhaustive computation of objective function values and the selection of the value
that satisfies the objective function. The level of products import from producing countries that
derives the lowest transportation cost is the optimal level, say, the cost-efficient level of
agricultural products exchange.
The objective function is the minimization of cost associated with products traffic all over the
market. Given promoters' reluctance in information sharing, it was uneasy to know precisely the
exact quantities flows of agricultural products. Nevertheless, it was possible to base the analysis
on importing countries' cost-efficient choice in placing an order for one unit (metric ton) of a
given product, provided all producing countries' geographic location and freight arrangements.
The constraint in this model is that importing countries demands have to be met.
Results. The linear programming results are as follows:



AANEX 11
Page 2 of 4
Optimal Distribution of Tropical Fruits Import
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                    .............  .......    y.  ...  ......  ..  . ... .   . ... .. ......... .   . ......... ... ... ... .   . .... .   ..    ...
EXPORTING                                        TROPICAL FRUITS AIR TRAFFIC
COUNTRIES                                              DESTINATION COUNTRIIES
New-York  London    Amsterda  Paris                                                    Zurich
m
................................... A...................................  ...................................  ..........................................................................................................
Cte d'Ivoire
QUantity (tons)                (069
X Shadow price                                        (0.099)               (0.194)               (0.536)               (0.099)
Rank  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~32                                                                   2                     3
,...   ......... ..............  .....................  ..................  . ........  ................ ........................  ...........q...................................  ........  ................................................................
Brazil
*                         ~~~~~~~~~~~0          0                     0                     00
SQuadioy(wp   )                (0.727)               (0.447)              (0559)                (0.969)               (0.387)
* *Sh~~~~~~Iowpnce     5 ~~~~~~~7                                 6                     7                     5
Costa-Rica
* Quantity (tons)                  (0)                (0.442)               (0. 751)              (0.92 7)              (0.770)
* Rank                              16                                         7                     6                     7
... ........ .......................... ............................ ............... ............    ................................................   ..... .............................    ..................................... ......................................................................
Kenya
*Quantity (tons)                    000                                                              0                     0
S Shadow price                   (2.258)              (0.106)               (0.232)               (0.642)               (0.105)
7                    4444
*Rank444
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..........   ....... . . . . . . . . . . . . .  ... ... ...  -... . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .
0             ~~~0000
* Shadow   tns)                  (0.650)              (0.05))               (0.230)               (0.591)               (0.065)
ShaR    wpk  c3                                          2                    3                     3                     2
Zimbabwe
* QuJatjty (tons) 
* Shadow pnce                  (1.687)               (0.369)              (0.508)               (0.841)               (0.411)
* Rank                   ~~~6                   5                     S                                           6
C am   eroon                                                                                                     ..... ..-...............-...........
* Quantity (tons)01111
* Shadow price                  (0.561)                  (0)                  (0)                   (0)                   (0)
* Rank                               21111
The optimal distribution of tropical fruits table shows that if each importing country were to place an order
for one metric ton of tropical fruits from the presented producing countries, they would make their
decisions cost-efficiently. For instance, a potential fruits client from New-York would order from Costa-
Rica in the first place. However, if for some reason he could not, his second best alternative would be to
order from Cameroon. He would rank his decision alternatives in light of the associated shadow prices.
Shadow prices reflect the increase in transportation cost when electing to exchange one unit of agricultural
product. Shadow prices associated with the optimal levels of products exchange are zero, for they match
the minimum-cost values of the iteration. This explains how the above table was designed. The lower the
shadow price, the more cost-efficient the decision is. Exporting countries were ranked by destination in that
pattern in the above optimal import distribution table.



AANNX11
Page 3 of 4
To this respect, Costa-Rica and Cameroon happen to be the most competitive producing countries on the
tropical fruits export market for New-York and other destinations, respectively. By extending the analysis,
one could draw a mean rank over all destinations and end up concluding that CMe d'Ivoire is the third most
competitive tropical fruits exporting country among seven potential competitors. Which means that despite
relatively high freight costs for Ivorian agricultural products, C8te d'Ivoire over-ranks a significant number
of exporting countries, due to its geographical location (the country is about 5,000 kilometers away from
most of European importing countries). Thus, if with the support of the Government, Air-Afrique could set
its air-freight tariffs below their current monopolistic levels, members countries including CMte d'Ivoire
would gain a lot from agricultural export and become more competitive on European destinations.
Results for tropical flowers market were also obtained from the optimization analysis. They show the same
pattern as those of the tropical fruits export market, and can be presented as follows:



ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 4
Optimal Distribution of Tropical Fowers Import
EXPORTING                              TROPICAL FLOWERS AIR TRAFFIC
COUNTRIES                                    DESTINATION COUNTRIES
................................................. ......     .    ........................   ................  o:.:.:..     ..    . ;  .
New-   London  Amsterdam   Paris    Frankfurt  Zurich
York
Coted'lvoire
* Qutity(town)     f    l.(1.700)     (0.495)          (0.617)          (0.854)         (0.117)       (0.480)
* Shadow price             6                                        q                       
*Rank
Brazil
Quantity (toTis)00                                      0                0               0             0
* Quantitydtowpnc       (0.712)       (0.744)          (0.969)          (1.310)         (0.450)       (0.774)
*Shadow price477777
*Rank477777
Costa-Rica                (                                                                           (0.680)
* Quantity (tons)I                                       0000
* Sbadow price            ()        (0.3 78)          (0.684)          (0. 799)       (0.314)        (0.680)
'Shadowprice                 ~~~~~                                     ~      ~       ~      ~~3  6  3  6  6
* Rank
7~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~.   .   .:  .   ...     ... .  .  ....  ......  ....   ...   ...  ..............  .....................
Kenya
* Quantity (tons)
' Shwiowprce            (0.824)       (0.3 76)         (0.582)          (0.846)        (0.009)        (0.386)
3        ~~~~2             2                4              2              2
South-Africa
*~~~~~~~ ~~~~ Quan0ty(tos) 
-Shadow R rice          (0.580)       (0.432)          (0.594)          (0-852)          (0)          (0.396)
* Quantity (tons)
* ShadowpRi             (1.734)       (0p489)          (0630)           (0798)          (036)         (a472)
* Rank244
:. .. ..  -. .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..............................    . . . . . . . . . . . ...    ....... . . . . .. . . . . ......    .. .. ..................
* Quantity (tons) 
(0.752)       (048)            (063)            (079)          (0.276)(0
' Shadow pnce                                                                                         (0.2)1  1 
 Rank7244
According to the above results, Cote d'Ivoire is less competitive within the tropical flowers market than it is in the
fruits market, as it ranks at the average fifth over all destinations. Which means that although the Ivorian flowers do not price
out of the export market, high freight costs prevent it from taking advantage of being closer to European destinations than other
exporting countries like South Africa and Kenya. The latter enjoy comfortable positions of competitiveness due to relatively
low freight costs (about half of freight costs for products departing from C6te d'Ivoire). This explains why it is critical that
freight tariffs be reduced in order to improve the country' s competitiveness.
Products traffic by sea was also an area of investigation in this analysis, but due to poor data, it was not necessary to
run a GAMS program for a model comprising one destination (Europe) and two origins (C6te d'Ivoire and Costa-Rica), for the
banana and pineapple market. From the transportation costs data related to the two origins, it appeared that Cote d'Ivoire was
more competitive for the European destination than Costa-Rica. However, such a conclusion could be misleading, because the
whole market needs to be pictured in order to get a better appreciation of the decision making process. In other words the area
of maritime transportation should be further researched to get sufficient data allowing to measure exporting countries'
competiveness, as it has been done for products traffic by air.






IMANGING
Report No:       14448 IVC
Type: SftR



