                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 27309

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                         (IDA-27490 PPFI-P8550 PPFI-P8551)

                                      ON A

                              LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ MILLION

                                     TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE

                                     FOR A

                EXPORT PROMOTION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT




                                December 31, 2003




AFTS4
Country Department 11
Africa Region

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 1999)

                                Currency Unit = FCFA
                                 FCFA 1,000 = US$ 0.63
                                     US$ 1.00 = FCFA 630

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1     December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANADER   Agence Nationale d'Appui au Développement Rural
APEPCI   Association des Producteurs d'Extraits Industriels d'Agrumes à Essences et Plantes à
          Fleurs
APEX-CI  Association pour la Promotion des Exportations de Côte d'Ivoire
CIDA     Canadian Agency for International Development
CNRA     Centre national de recherche agronomique
COLEACP  Comité de Liaison Europe-ACP
DUS      Droit Unique de Sortie
FIRCA    Interprofessional Fund for Research and Extension
FLORACI  Association des Producteurs de Fleurs de Côte d'Ivoire
FRUITINA Fruits de Côte d'ivoire
IDA      International Development Association
PROMEXA  Association des Producteurs et Exportateurs Agricoles
OCAB     Association des coopératives de bananes et ananas
SIGFIP   Système Integré de Gestion des Finances Publiques
UPHCI    Union des Producteurs Horticoles de Côte d'Ivoire




                               Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
                            Country Director      Mamadou Dia
                              Sector Manager      Mary A. Barton-Dock
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Ehoue Bleoue Nicaise

                                          COTE D'IVOIRE
              IVC:EXPORT PROMOTION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT


                                            CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                    1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              6
   6. Sustainability                                                                  7
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   8
   8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
   9. Partner Comments                                                              11
   10. Additional Information                                                       13
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             14
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             18
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
   Annex 8. Borrower's Report                                                       27
MAP No. IBRD24757

Project ID: P037581                                                  Project Name: IVC:EXPORT PROMOTION AND
Team Leader: Nicaise Ehoue                                           TL Unit: AFTS4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 31, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: IVC:EXPORT PROMOTION AND                                 L/C/TF Number: IDA-27490; PPFI-P8550;
                                                                                                     PPFI-P8551
   Country/Department: COTE D'IVOIRE                                                      Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (56%); Agricultural marketing
                            and trade (44%)
                  Theme: Export development and competitiveness (P); Infrastructure services
                            for private sector development (P); Trade facilitation and market
                            access (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/15/1987                                     Effective: 09/22/1995                04/16/1996
     Appraisal: 03/31/1995                                         MTR: 06/30/1999                  06/21/1999
      Approval: 06/22/1995                                      Closing: 06/30/2001                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOV'T OF RCI/MIN. OF AGRICULTURE
                      Other Partners:      The Canadian Agency for International Development

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Edward Jaycox
Country Director:               Mamadou Dia                                    Shigeo Katsu
Sector Manager:                 Mary A. Barton-Dock                            Cynthia Cook
Team Leader at ICR:             Nicaise Ehoue                                  Ousmane Sissoko
ICR Primary Author:             Nicaise Ehoue


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The project's objectives were to diversify and expand private agricultural exports with a view to supporting
the Government's export-led growth strategy and reducing the country's excessive dependence on traditional
crops such as cocoa, coffee and timber. These objectives were to be adopted through: (a) export market
development activities for nontraditional agricultural products by scaling up actions initiated under a pilot
phase; (b) support to existing associations of agricultural producers/exporters, creation of new farmer
associations and the establishment of an interprofessional group of producers and exporters'associations;
(c) assistance for project management; and (d) upgrading of physical export infrastructure.

Macroeconomic environment and Project performance

The project effectiveness took place in a very favorable macroeconomic environment marked by a
realignment of the real exchange rate in January 1994 which fostered the competitiveness of agricultural
exports and the resumption of agricultural and economic growths. However, during the second
implementation phase, unprecedented political instability resulting from a coup d'Etat in September 1999
disrupted the overall country's economy and affected the financial situation of the country, which was
unable to repay its loans due to the Bank and other institutions. As a result, the Bank suspended
disbursements, which had a negative impact on implementation. When suspension was lifted, a
cumbersome fiscal policy and the unavailability of counterpart funds hampered the improvement of the
disbursement rate. The overall economy worsened with the unpredictable rebellion of September 2001,
which split the country along the north-south line and led to negative economic growth of -1.2% in 2002
and an estimate of -3% in 2003.

In spite of this unfavorable environment, project beneficiaries succeeded to maintain their activities and
help the project to stay on course as testified by the steady growth of non traditional exports until 2002,
mainly due to the strong foundation built during the first implementation phase. The total export volume of
nontraditional products increased from 37,000 MT in 1995 at the time of project effectiveness to more than
100,000 MT in 2002. Although this achievement was not attributed solely to the project, the latter
significantly contributed to this performance as indicated by the socioeconomic impacts study undertaken in
September 2001. This performance can also be confirmed by the positive net present value (NPV- US$ 5.5
million) and the high economic and financial rates of return (EIRR-44%- and FIRR- 31%-). However, it
has been reported that non-export growth may decrease in 2003 due to the smuggling of products (mangoes
and cashew) to neighboring countries. But with a peace prospect looming on the horizon with the beginning
of disarmament and the existing of an active private sector, it is expected that growth could resume
progressively starting from the 2004 crop season.


3.2 Revised Objective:

The project's objective was not revised during project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:

The original project included four components:
l Export Promotion and Diversification actions (support to nontraditional export market development;
    financial advisory services and training; adaptive research and extension) (US$8.4 million)
l Support to Agricultural Producers' and Exporters' Organizations (support and strengthening the
    performance of the professional Associations of Agricultural Producers/Exporters through the
    provision of technical advisory services to existing and promotion of new ones and carrying out a study
    to assess the creation of an interprofession) (US$3.5 million)



                                                     - 2 -

l Upgrading the export handling and storage facilities (rehabilitation of the fruit wharf at the port of
    Abidjan and construction of storage facilities) (US $ 27 million under the European Union mission's
    financing). This was not included in the project cost.
l Project Management (US$1.7 million)


3.4 Revised Components:

Although during implementation the financing of the exporters'/producers' sub-projects was clearly
identified as a serious constraint, no additional component was added to comply with the Bank's decision
not to provide lines of credit to fund farmers' activities, particularly at a time when commercial banks were
overflowing with liquidity, following the exchange rate realignment in 1994.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

No quality-at-entry review (QAE) was performed on the project. However, to ensure adequate
implementation of the project, the Government took the precautionary step of avoiding being involved in the
sector and to encourage the private sector to take full responsibility of project implementation. In that
sense, a project management unit was established, after a competitive selection process to recruit staff with
extensive experience in private sector development activities. To ensure sustainability, the Government
contracted the newly created interprofession (PROMEXA) with the intention to entrust them with project
implementation after the mid-term review if the entity demonstrated the capacity to do so. The Government
also entered into an agreement with the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) to recruit a
well-known consulting firm with experience in private sector development activities to provide technical
support to the project management unit. However, it is worth noting that it took almost 9 months for the
project to become effective due to cumbersome administrative procedures in preparing and signing the
implementation convention between the project unit and the Bank. This delay marginally affected project
implementation.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The overall project objective is deemed satisfactory in spite of severe obstacles encountered during the last
phase of project implementation, due to an unprecedented political and military crisis that has hampered the
overall country's economic development these past two years. The crisis had a negative impact in project
gains during the second phase of project implementation, but the overall results achieved on the ground
were substantial.

This rating is based on the following results that were achieved during project implementation:

l The volume of exports has increased since project effectiveness. Some 100 producers associations and
    individuals exported more than 100,000 MT in 2002 worth more than US$100 million compared to
    78,000 MT in 1999; 56,000 MT in 1998 and 31,000 MT in 1996, before project effectiveness.
l Production has been diversified with more than 25 potential products identified. However, the project
    focused on four promising sub-sectors: Cashew nut (15,000 MT produced in 1996, 100,000 MT in
    2002); mango (6,000 MT in 1995, 12,000 MT in 2002); cut flowers (1,100 MT in 1995; 1,800 MT in
    2002) and essential oils (110 MT in 1995; 300 MT in 2002).
l Seven commodity-based professional associations and one interprofessional (PROMEXA) have been



                                                      - 3 -

    created and are operational, although they still need continuous support. PROMEXA has become the
    most important interlocutor in the area of nontraditional production and export and is paving the way
    for sustainable development of the sector.
l Export environment started improving before the political and military crisis. PROMEXA was very
    active and successful at representing producers' and exporters' interests. It lobbied successfully for
    cargo charter flights to take off from Yamoussokro, for the first time in Côte d'Ivoire, thus breaking of
    Air Afrique and Air France duopoly, being able to reduce the freight cost by 20-30%. PROMEXA's
    intervention was instrumental at exempting the added-value tax on inputs and it played a major role in
    the drastic reduction of the excise tax (Droit Unique de Sortie-DUS) from 150 to 10 CFAF/KG
l The project has also promoted exchange and regional integration. PROMEXA provided technical
    assistance to support counterpart operators in Senegal, Mali, Guinea, Burkina etc.
l The outreach has been impressive: 15,000 smallholders have been directly reached at project closing
    compared to 6,000 at project effectiveness, and 3,000 jobs were indirectly created.

                      KEY PROJECT MONITORABLE INDICATORS



                      Effectiveness       Planned              Actual             Estimate
                                                      (2002)              (2002)              (2003)
Des. Coconut                     10,000              12,000               11,000              11,000
Cashew                           15,000              45,000             100,000               60,000
Mango                              6,000               8,500              12,000               4,000
Cut flowers                        1,100               1,550               1,800               1,800
Essential Oils                       110                 250                 300                 300
Total (MT)                       31,210              67,300             125,100               77,100
Farmers reach.                   6,000               12,000               15,000              15,000


4.2 Outputs by components:

I. Export Promotion and Diversification Actions. The component is rated satisfactory. The project
provided support through assisting Ivorian producers in: (i) market research, customer identification,
meeting quality requirements, trial shipments and packaging assistance and obtaining pre-export finance
and follow-up of sales and export shipments; (ii) product development and quality control via export
adaptive research; and (iii) establishment of business relationships for private operators engaging in the
production and exportation of products. During project implementation, more than 400 promoters
participated in 41 commercial events (exhibitions, fairs) around the world, sharing cost at a 30% level,
establishing 50 partnerships with importers throughout the world (Europe, America and Africa) of which
23 led to investment ventures. Thirty packaging materials were developed, making products more
attractive, ensuring quality and safety and respecting international norms and standards. The component
could have been rated highly satisfactory if not for the following constraints: (i) insufficient sub-project
financing. Only 13 sub-projects were funded by the Ivoiro-Swiss funds for Social Development (FISDES).
Attempts to attract commercial banks to finance beneficiaries' sub-projects failed due to their unwillingness
to take risks; and (ii) weak project linkages to national extension and research systems due to the structural
organization of ANADER and CNRA. However, it is expected that with the recently-created funds for
research and extension (Fonds Interprofession de Recherche et de Conseil Agricole-FIRCA) which will
establish competitive extension and research services delivery, the constraints that were encountered in
research and extension will be alleviated.



                                                      - 4 -

II. Support to Agricultural Producers' and Exporters' Organizations. The component is rated
satisfactory. The project (i) promoted the establishment of non traditional commodity-based professional
organizations; (ii) helped the Government to implement its agricultural export promotion and diversification
policy through privately-controlled organizations; and (iii) provided the required assistance through
national and international consultancies. Due to intensive project support, PROMEXA is now a well
established interprofessional association with more than 100 members and seven created professional
associations which are very active in their specific sub-sectors. PROMEXA is in the process of being
recognized as an association of public utility, which will provide the opportunity to represent the
Government and act on its behalf in the nontraditional sector. In this perspective, PROMEXA has already
been entrusted the implementation of the "Pesticide Initiative Program" (PIP) initiated by the European
Union to meet the requirement of the Maximum Limit Residue (MLR). PROMEXA sits at the Board of
APEX-CI (Association Professionelle des Exportateurs de Côte d'Ivoire), which was created a result of its
effective contribution. PROMEXA's technical assistance in mango production and export to Senegal has
contributed to a production boost from 500 MT to 2,500MT within 2 years. PROMEXA was also
instrumental in breaking of the Air France/Air Afrique monopoly by lobbying the Government intensively
to open its sky to cargo flight charters. Because of its performance, PROMEXA has recently been selected
to implement one of the component of the restructured Private Sector Development Project, as a way to
achieve quickly results on the ground before the project closing. One of the problems faced by PROMEXA
was the slow pace in achieving its financial sustainability. This issue is being addressed by PROMEXA
which has unveiled a roadmap to tackle the problem through the collection of fees on export volumes to
cover its administrative costs. PROMEXA will still need external support for activities entrusted by the
Government or other institutions.

Export Facilities Upgrading. This component was rated satisfactory. The project supported the
rehabilitation of the fruit wharf at the Port of Abidjan for producer groups, and the construction and
specialized storage facilities for the export of fresh products at the airport. A modern wharf is now
operational and serves as a model in the sub-region with the necessary equipment to ensure traceability and
enforce quality control regulations. The abandoned airport in Yamoussokro was rehabilitated by the project
and was opened to freight traffic. Before the coup of 1999, on average 40 charter flights transported
products from Yamoussokro to the European markets annually, with a peak of 80 flights in 1999. The
Yamoussokro airport became a military base for the French troops following the rebels' attack in
September 2001. PROMEXA is trying to transfer the cargo flight activities to Abidjan by moving the
needed equipment from Yamoussokro to the Abidjan airport, but will need support for that, which could be
provided by the Private Development Project.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The financial and economic analysis were based on the actual achievement of the project in terms of
volumes and prices obtained by exporters throughout project implementation. The economic analysis is
based on the observed market prices at port or airport of destination which is the European market. The
economic prices are obtained by adjusting financial prices for distortions due to export duties (Droit unique
de sortie) on cashew nut and foreign exchange premium estimated to be 5% despite the fixed exchange rate
between the Euro and the CFAF. Based on these assumptions, the NPV computed was equal to 5,506
million US$ with an Economic IRR of 44.38%, which is even better than the financial IRR (31.75%). This
proves that the project's value to society is even greater than the profit made by private operators. Both the
country and the beneficiaries are benefiting from the project. The project's results are better than expected,
because of the fact that the initial IRR was estimated at 17%.



                                                     - 5 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:

The results of the financial analysis are the following: NPV: US$4.3 millions; IRR: 31.75% and B/C 3.1.
In view of the results, the NPV is largely positive. The IRR is more than the double of the opportunity cost
of capital (OCC) estimated to be 12% and the Benefit/Cost Ratio is greater than 1, showing that at
completion, the project performed well. However, a sensibility analysis conducted on the basis of the CIF
prices fluctuations shows that the project's outcomes relies heavily on CIF prices variations. The IRR
matches the OCC at 6.89% CIF decrease and the B/C reaches 1 at 11.76% CIF decrease while NPV
becomes 0      with 11.74% CIF price decrease. Therefore, to take advantage of the price fluctuation,
operators have to remain active in the market to benefit from the annual average price, which is more stable
than the seasonal one and also product quality needs to be improved. For further information, see Annex 3
on Economic Costs/Benefits.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

 The project has contributed to the creation and the reinforcement of seven commodity-based professional
and one interprofessional association (PROMEXA), which is very active in the non-traditional sector as
mentioned above. Unlike in the past, the development of nontraditional products is following a new pattern
which restricts Government's involvement. In the past, parastatals were in charge of production, processing
and even marketing. The retrenchment of the Government from these activities left the door widely opened
for the private sector to strive and for PROMEXA to impose itself as an important player in the sector.
PROMEXA has performed successfully; and as a result, it has been              nationally and internationally
recognized during the project's first phase of implementation by the Canadian Government that awarded its
"Nortel prize" (high performance price) in 1998; it got the second best exhibition at the first SARA Fair
(Salon de l'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales) in November 1997, had the best essential oils poster
presentation at Digne (France in 2000); and presented the best video message for mango production in St
Hyacinthe (Canada in 1998). Another successful institutional impact of the project was its initiative to
revigorate the private sector in its investments decision making, by helping to convert unsuccessful medium
banana/pineapple producers and even one multinational enterprise into successful papaya exporters.
Contrary to critics, this initiative fostered contractual farming, which will contribute to boost the papaya
supply in the near future. The project has also reinforced the institutional link between PROMEXA and
OCAB, the Bananas/Pineapple Central Association (OCAB). Members of OCAB's mango sector are full
fledged members of PROMEXA. Both associations are benefiting from this liaison, which was the
foundation for the rehabilitation and modernizing of the fruit wharf at the Abidjan Harbor.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

One of the main factors that had a negative impact in the project implementation was the "Coup d'Etat" of
1999, which affected the financial position of the Government and led to suspension of disbursements. The
subsequent rebellion of September 2002 split the country and affected project activities in the northern part
of the country, where mango and cash-nut, the two main commodities, are produced.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Due to a cumbersome financial management system put in place starting from 2000, disbursement lagged.
Although the Government proclaimed its high interest in this project, as this project was considered as the
most innovative approach in its overall support to agriculture through a strong private sector development,



                                                      - 6 -

due to its weak fiscal policy, the government was unable to provide counterpart funds in a timely manner
during the period of two years before project closing.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

At an early stage, the Project Management Unit took the major important step of creating PROMEXA, to
ensure sustainability. However, it took time for the PMU to convince the institutions in charge of extension
and research to fully collaborate with project implementation, due to their internal restructuring at that
time. During the first implementation phase, the PMU, optimistically, tried to cover too many non
traditional commodities, which gave the impression that they were unfocused. This trend was rapidly
corrected during the mid-term review mission in June 1999, and it contributed to boost the export of
commodities such as mango and cashew nut.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Total project costs at appraisal were estimated at US$16.4 million, with IDA financing US$5.83 million
(35.6 percent), the Canadian Agency for International Development financing US$3.42 million, the
European Union US$3.74 million, Japan US$0.60 million, project beneficiaries US$1.71 million and the
Government US$1.09 million. During negotiations between the Government and the Canadian Agency for
International Development, the latter increased its contribution to US$6.8 million, while the European
Union (EU) cancelled its financing. However, EU made a commitment to rehabilitate and modernize the
Abidjan Fruit Wharf by investing US$27 million, which were not included in the project cost. Actual
project costs are estimated at US$12.3 million, with IDA contributing US$3.05 million, the Canadian
Agency for International Development contributing (US$6.8 million) and the Government contributing the
remainder (US$1.4 million), mostly for taxes and duties. The contribution of beneficiaries was estimated at
US$1.1 million. Actual costs represented 75% of the planned costs resulting from the fact the Bank's
disbursements were only 60% mostly due to inadequate financial management and insufficient counterpart
funds which started after the crisis.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability of the project has been a key issue that was constantly raised during project design and
implementation. It lies on the basic assumptions that PROMEXA has the capacity to: (i) position itself as
the main interlocutor of the Government and stakeholders in developing nontraditional export and (ii)
achieve financial autonomy. Because of the project overall performance in a very difficult political,
economic and social environment, and the demonstrated leadership and capacity of PROMEXA to
potentially achieve financial autonomy, the sustainability of the project was rated "Likely".

So far, PROMEXA has shown eagerness to be on the driver's seat to ensure sustainability of project gains,
through a series of successful actions: (i) a year after project effectiveness, a secretariat of PROMEXA
was established and an executive secretary was appointed to lay the foundation of a dynamic
interprofessional association; (ii) PROMEXA was capable of formulating annual programs and budgets
with appropriate inputs from thematic committees, including representatives from the interprofessional
groups, with a view to ascertain a long term sustainability of project actions; (iii) it organized
symposiums/seminars on product quality management; (iv) it also provided technical assistance to
applicants for loans from FISDES; and (v) and participated in national and international events, that gave


                                                     - 7 -

PROMEXA exposure and recognition.

While it was expected that PROMEXA would be responsible for its administrative costs and also
contribute to cover operating costs of the project management unit progressively at a level of 20% three
years after project effectiveness and 60% thereafter, implementation proved this assumption to be
unrealistic, especially for an association that was created from scratch. However, PROMEXA's services
still will be utilized, since the Private Development Project will use this interprofession association to
continue to carry on assigned activities in the sector of nontraditional export. PROMEXA is a very lean
and efficient association with only three permanent staff which provides efficient services. During project
implementation 40% of its administrative costs were covered by member's contribution fees. With the
expectation of covering total administrative costs after project closing, PROMEXA organized maritime and
air freight stocks in which fees will be levied against delivery services. An additional step to achieve full
sustainability, is to levy fees on exported volume of traditional against specific services provided to
members who are willing to pay. A similar approach is being used by OCAB, the central organization of
pineapple and banana which has been financially sustainable for more than ten years. For any new
activities entrusted to PROMEXA, operating costs will be covered by contracted institutions or the
Government.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Since the nontraditional export sector is widely recognized as a potential engine for growth, the Bank and
the Government made arrangements for the Private Sector Development Project to take over unfinished
activities of PROMEXA such as the maximum limited residue requirements established by the European
Union. Moreover, PROMEXA's research and extension activities will also be financed by the
newly-created Interprofessional Fund for Research and Extension (FIRCA).

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance in project identification is rated satisfactory. The Program was well identified, and
accurately reflected the country's needs for development and poverty reduction. The Government was
committed to continue to carry on its policy in the sector and to allow the private sector to strive. The
project was clearly identified as an important part of the Government strategy to reduce its dependance on
traditional exports (coffee, cocoa, banana, pineapple, rubber and palm-oil). Identification, preparation and
negotiations were undertaken in a participatory manner with active involvement of the private sector. The
experience gained in this project was further disseminated to other agricultural export promotion and
diversification projects in Senegal, Mali, Mauritania and Niger.


7.2 Supervision:

Supervision of the project is rated satisfactory. The Bank carried out one to two supervision missions per
year jointly with CIDA. This joint effort provided a good skill mix in the composition of the supervision
teams, and also provided the opportunity to share experiences of similar co-financed projects in Senegal. In
addition, the Canadian Agency for International Development sent in regularly missions to look into areas
of specific interests. Day-to-day problems were quickly resolved due to the fact that the Team Leaders, the
Financial Management Specialist, the Disbursement Assistant and the Procurement Specialist were located



                                                     - 8 -

in the field. However, the Bank should have recommended that a procurement specialist be recruited for the
project management unit. It is important to point out that the overall environment in Côte d'Ivoire after the
Coup and the rebellion was not conducive to carry on supervisions with complete teams, due to insecurity
problems in the country. The last supervision mission with a complete team took place in June 2002, one
year before the closing of the project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. The Bank fielded strong multidisciplinary preparation
and supervision teams, taking into consideration Borrower's and stakeholders' concerns, and adapted the
project design to local conditions. The Bank was proven right in supporting a project that pioneered
diversification and promotion of non traditional export in the sub-region.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The borrower's performance in project preparation was satisfactory. The borrower began its preparation
process by building up on a successful pilot project implemented 18 months earlier. The project was
designed based on an effective participatory process involving the private agribusiness sector and small
farmers. A national consultant with a strong background in traditional and non traditional exports was
recruited at an early stage, through a competitive selection process. Being knowledgeable of Bank's
procedures, this consultant was based at the Bank's office and actively contributed to the project design.
This initiative fostered ownership. Later on, this consultant was hired as the Project Manager.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Government strived to meet the financial and legal requirements and its implementation performance
was rated satisfactory during the first phase of project implementation. However, this rating turned
unsatisfactory two years before the closing of the project. The Government failed to provide counterpart
funds on a timely manner. In addition, the Government put in place a new and inadequate financial
management system (SIGFIP) which penalized the implementation of most projects in Côte d'Ivoire by
slowing down the pace of disbursements and reducing the inflow of funds into projects.


7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the implementing agency is rated satisfactory. The implementing agency, with the
support of international technical assistance, performed extremely well during the first phase of project
implementation. However, during the second phase, due to suspension of disbursements, project staff was
drastically reduced to three people only: the Project Manager, an accountant, and an assistant. After the
suspension was lifted, there was not enough time to proceed with new recruitments for the management
unit. With the financial support of CIDA, PROMEXA was able to maintain some of the project's activities
until the closing of the project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Although two years before the project closing date the environment was not conducive to project
implementation, the overall borrower's performance was rated satisfactory, given the high performance
achieved during the first four years of project implementation and the fact that the project kept up with its
momentum even in the very difficult environment following the coup d'Etat and the rebellion.


                                                     - 9 -

8. Lessons Learned


A number of lessons need to be learned from the design and implementation of this project. The most
important ones are itemized below. Some lessons are positive and can contribute to the appropriate
formulation of future policies in the agribusiness sector of nontraditional agricultural export.

l The project implementation has shown that:


    - the country has a great potential to develop its nontraditional export as a new source of growth
resulting from an adequate infrastructure, a fairly well established and active private sector and a critical
mass of farmers who are eager to produce, if given the opportunity;

    - the old paradigm of developing a sector through the creation of parastatals is over and that the
promotion of strong professional associations can be the cost effective way to achieve expected results;

    - only a strong private and public partnership can contribute to the success of this new paradigm,
where each partner has a role to play and particularly the Government, in building the right environment for
this to happen. The project has proven that this is feasible after the breaking of Air Afrique and Air France
duopoly resulting from PROMEXA's intensive lobby.

l It is not easy to achieve financial sustainability of professional associations during the life of a project,
    particularly when these associations were created during the project's life. During project design, it was
    agreed that starting from the third year, professional associations could contribute to cover operating
    costs of the project management unit. During project implementation, it became clear that it takes
    longer than anticipated to "build" professional associations and make them financially viable.
l The project was designed based on the premises that promoting external markets to boost the demand
    of nontraditional products is a key factor to diversification and should be a priority. However,
    promoting supply proved to be equally important. While this was taken into consideration, the project
    faced problems in removing constraints to boost supply and to meet an increasing demand resulting
    from aggressive external market promotion.
l If the project would have had a sound financial management ("transfer of capital" to the project's
    coordination unit), the flow of funds to the project could have been smoother and the problems
    generated by the inadequate existing financial management system (SIGFIP) and the delays in
    providing counterpart funds, which particularly affected this type of project, could have been avoided .
    This lesson was learned by similar projects in Senegal and Mali, which helped to accelerate
    disbursements.
l Research and extension should have been set as prerequisites to ensure increasing supply. While
    ANADER and CNRA (that were in charge of research and extension) fully participated in the project
    design, they were not well prepared to respond to the needs of promoters during implementation, due to
    lack of adequate human resources and equipment. The project had to rely essentially on private
    institutions to solve its day-to-day problems of extension and research. However, for the nontraditional
    export to become the new engine of growth, a real involvement of extension and research should be
    sought to boost supply and improve quality. FIRCA (Fonds Interprofessionnel de Recherche et Conseil
    Agricole), the newly-created institution in charge of funding research and extension, should play a
    major role in this perspective.
l Once the market has been identified, an immediate supply response is a key factor for the development




                                                    - 10 -

    of commodities. It hinges on a dynamic financial market ready to take risks. However, a common
    problem that the Export Promotion Project and similar projects being implemented in the sub-region
    faced, was the lack of adequate funding to beneficiaries' sub-projects. During the project design, the
    banking system had too much liquidity, following the exchange rate realignment in 1994. As a result, it
    was expected that the banking system would have been flexible and would have contributed to finance
    beneficiaries' initiatives, but that was a misconception. In fact, the commercial banking system was
    adamant to fund a sector that it considered as being very risky, although the project provided the
    technical assistance for adequate business proposals. While the Ivoirian-Swiss fund for social and
    economic development funded some medium farmers, many small farmers were left out due to the fact
    that existing microfinance institutions were in dire conditions or were more urban oriented. To deal
    with this issue, a sector work on microfinance institution development oriented to rural activities will
    be undertaken.
l Future projects should not only concentrate on export of raw products but should also give equal
    importance to processing products with the perspective of increasing the value added, creating jobs in
    rural areas and ensuring sustainability. The issue in question is the Ivorian cashew-nut industry which
    may not survive if a fair amount of raw nuts is not processed in Côte d'Ivoire. In fact, only a tiny
    portion (0.7% of total export) of the Ivoirian cash-nut was processed even before the rebellion which
    precipitated the closure of existing processing units. The bulk was exported in raw forms to be
    processed in India . However, Indian exporters will soon face European restrictions if the traceability
    of its products is not proven. In this case, Indians may be forced to stop importing raw cashew nut
    from Cote d'Ivoire. This lesson was learned by both the Government and PROMEXA which has
    recently organized a seminar to define a strategic approach to establish small/medium processing units
    in the cashew nut production zones.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Borrower provided comments to the ICR. The Borrower also submitted a report which is presented in
Annex 8. The Borrower's report, which was written by the former project director, agreed with the
conclusion of the ICR. However, it criticized Bank's procedures as being inconsistent with a development
agenda. The report made particular reference to the suspension of disbursements resulting from the non
accrual status of Cote d'Ivoire, which hampered project implementation. The former project director was
also very critical of the Government for not providing counterpart funds on time, in spite of the government
proclaiming that the development of nontraditional products was at the top of its agenda.

(b) Cofinanciers:

Canadian Agency for International Development

The purpose of the Canadian International Development Agency was to promote the nontraditional export
and diversification of traditional export crops such as coffee and cacao through: (i) external market
development; (ii) infrastructure rehabilitation or construction; (iii) financial services; (iv) support to
professional organizations; (v) improvement of adaptive research; and (iv) support to the management unit.

I. Results Achieved

Rehabilitation and Infrastructure Development. The rehabilitation of the Yamoussokro Airport was a
very important step towards the reduction of the cost of freight, which was estimated to have been reduced
by 20-30%. This achievement could serve as a model for the sub-region. The creation of conditioning



                                                   - 11 -

centers in Azaguie, Yamoussokro, and Odienne contributed to foster product quality and volume increase.
The rehabilitation of the Abidjan fruit wharf is a reason for major pride for Cote d'Ivoire and the overall
sub-region, as it will greatly contribute to maritime shipments of banana, mango, pineapple, papaya, etc.
Apart from Yamoussokro where air freight has been suspended as a result from the recent crisis, the
infrastructure that was built during project implementation is still functioning.

Creation of the interprofession (PROMEXA) and professional organizations (FRUITINA,
FLORACI, APPEPCI, UPHCI). There has been a satisfactory growth of professional associations with
increased membership from 30 in 1995 to 100 in 2001. The production of papaya increased from 92 MT in
1992 to about 430 MT in 1999. The same trend was noted with cut flowers, essential oils, mango and
cashew nut.

Professional associations had the opportunity to diversify their activities, improve the quality of their
products and increase profitability. As a consequence, the price for essential oils was increased by 50%, as
a result of an aggressive export campaign initiated and supported by the project through the participation of
promoters in exhibitions and fairs, pictures and video shows, etc.

In summary, it is important to point out that between 1997 (the beginning of project implementation) and
1999 (date of the coup), the project performance was highly satisfactory. Unfortunately after 1999, the
project started to accumulate problems.

II. Difficulties Encountered by the Project

l The 1999 coup had a negative impact on project implementation. In fact, due to insecurity, most
    activities were at a standstill: air cargo freight in Yamoussokro was suspended, in some cases farms
    were abandoned and export contracts were suspended or cancelled.
l The suspension of disbursements due to the lack debt repayment affected project's activities.
l Internal management problems (such as lack of transparency of some professional organizations,
    difference of opinions between professional associations and GEOMAR's technical assistant who was
    recruited by the Canadian Agency for International Development) created a less trusting environment
    that had a negative impact on the development of nontraditional products.

However, project beneficiaries have demonstrated their capabilities to produce and export nontraditional
products in a cost effective way. In fact, PROMEXA continues to be active even after the closing of the
project, which can be considered as a testimony for sustainability. The production and export of mango has
been absorbed by OCAB (association des cooperatives de bananes et ananas) ensuring the sustainability of
this sector. The existing infrastructure, which was affected by the difficult political environment, could be
reactivated any time after peace resumes and could contribute to boost the export of nontraditional
products.

It is important to mention that the cooperation between CIDA and the World Bank during project
preparation and implementation was excellent. Project's strategy was constantly discussed with the Bank
and the Government. The Bank and CIDA coordinated their actions on a daily basis, made arrangements to
jointly supervise the project to avoid disagreements on recommendations.

Implementation was deemed satisfactory in spite of the suspension of disbursements which affected the
project unit. During this difficult situation, CIDA managed to support PROMEXA, which was able to
maintain some activities of the project and keep up the momentum.




                                                      - 12 -

In summary, in spite of external and internal difficulties that were encountered during implementation, the
project has achieved significant results on the ground in a short period of time, .

The European Union.

Due to the fact that the TTL of the EU project related to the wharf rehabilitation was transferred to another
location after the beginning of the rebellion, EU could not provide comments on this specific sub-project.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




10. Additional Information


Political background: Traditionally, Côte d'Ivoire's relative prosperity was dependent on close ties to
France, the development of cocoa production for export, and foreign investment. The country greatly
benefited from exceptional natural conditions and the proximity to low-cost immigrant labor. However, by
practicing a policy that was essentially "extractive", Côte d'Ivoire was not able to preserve its natural
resources from destruction and take full advantage of it.

Political turmoil disrupted the economic and social stability due to a military coup that occured in
December of 1999 that overthrew the government led by President Henri Konan Bedie. The coup leader,
Robert Guei held elections in late 2000, but excluded the prominent opposition leader Alassane Ouattara,
and declared himself the winner, under accusations of falsifying the polling results. Popular protests forced
Guei to step aside and brought the runner-up, Laurent Gbagbo, into power. Gbagbo spent his first two
years in office trying to consolidate power to strengthen his weak mandate, but he was unable to appease
his opponents, who launched a failed coup attempt in September 2002. Rebel forces claimed the northern
half of the country and in January 2003 were granted ministerial positions in a united government, although
the country is still divided in two. French and West African troops remain in Côte d'Ivoire to maintain
peace and help implement the peace accords under the UN mandate.




                                                    - 13 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Data per Project Year (PY)
PY1: Exp.sales:33,000 No of exporters
idenfied: 60; No of producers reached: 5,000
PY3: Export sales: 44,000; No of exporters
identified:80; No of producers reached: 7,000

PY5: Export sales: 47,000; No of exporters
identified: 100; No of Producers reached:
10,000                                        No. Exporters: 120                            No. Exporters: 100
                                              No Producers: 12,500                          No: Producers: 15,000
                                              Vol. Export Sales: 75,000 MT                  Vol. Export Sales: 119,000MT




OUTPUT INDICATORS                             PROJECTED IN LAST PSR                         ACTUAL/LATEST ESTIMATE

# of exporter/importer relationships formed   Cumulative # of exporter/importer             Cumulative # of exporter/importer
10; 40; 80.                                   relationship: 50                              relationship: 60

# of participants to trade shows              Cumulative # of participants to trade shows   # of participants to trade shows: 494
40; 100; 200.                                 450

New packagings/brands developed               New packagings/brands developed: 30           New packagings/brands developed: 30
3; 15; 25.

Promotional events and material               Promotional events and material: 40           Promotional events and material: 43
2; 10; 25.
Trade associations formed                     Trade associations formed: 7                  Trade associations formed:7
2; 4; 7.

Circulation of market information newsletters Circulation of market information newsletters Circulation of market information newsletters
20; 60; 150.
# of export oriented research programs/# of   # of export oriented research programs/# of   # of export oriented research programs/# of
participants                                  participants: 18/80                           participants: 18/80
2/8; 10/50; 20/100.

# of CODINORM Ivorian labels issued            Cumulative# of CODINORM Ivorian labels       Cumulative # of CODINORM Ivorian labels
0; 3; 5.                                      issued           4                            issued: 4
ISO or other international certifications     ISO or other international certifications     ISO or other international certifications
obtained                                      obtained: 2                                   obtained: 2
1; 3; 6.
# of new products                             Cumulative # of new products: 25              Cumulative # of new products: 25
4; 10; 15.
# and value of successful export financing    # and value of successful export financing    # and value of successful export financing
projects financed                             projects financed                             projects financed
  Small businesses (less than 10 employees)
4/0.12m$; 15/0.5m$; 25/0.8m$.                  Cumulative# and value of successful export    Cumulative # and value of successful export
                                              financing projects financed                   financing projects financed
Medium businesses (over 10 employees)                                                       13/02 m$
2/2.5m$; 4/10m$; 8/20m$.
                                              Cumulative # and value of successful export    Cumulative# and value of successful export
                                              financing projects financed                   financing projects financed
                                                                                            7/ 0.6M$
 % participation of exporters to costs        % participation of exporters to costs         % participation of exporters to costs: 50%
30%; 40%; 50%.

Fruit wharf rehabilitation                    Fruit wharf rehabilitation                    Fruit wharf rehabilitation
 completed at PY3.                             Completed at PY6                             Completed at PY6




                                                                 - 14 -

Upgrade of airport handling and storage  Upgrade of airport handling and storage  Upgrade of airport handling and storage
facilities                               facilities                               facilities : Completed at PY3
 completed at PY3.
Progress in air freight competitive      Progress in air freight competitive      Progress in air freight competitive
environment:                             environment: US$: 0.85                   environment: US$: 1

Charter cargo shipments                  #Charter cargo shipments                 Cumulative # Charter cargo shipments
test flights (PY3);  regular (PY5).      test flights : 128                       test flights :128




Output Indicators:
                                                                            1
               Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                                             - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
A. Export Promotion and Diversification Actions              5.68            4.64            81.6
B. Support to Producers/Exporters' Organizations             2.59            2.20            84.9
C. Export Facilities Upgrade                                 3.30            2.25            68.2
D. Project Management                                        1.31            1.20            91.6
E. Project Preparation                                       2.00            2.00             100

Total Baseline Cost                                         14.88          12.29
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.73
 Price Contingencies                                         0.78
                         Total Project Costs                16.39          12.29
                   Total Financing Required                 16.39          12.29


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.00         0.00         3.69          3.69
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                           0.00             0.94         0.47         0.21          1.62
                                   (0.00)          (0.57)      (0.27)         (0.00)       (0.84)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         3.50         3.87          7.37
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (2.66)         (0.00)       (2.66)
4. Operating Cost (cons.)          0.00             0.00         0.43         0.00          0.43
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.20)         (0.00)       (0.20)
5. Inc. Recur. Costs               0.00             0.00         2.89         0.00          2.89
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (1.73)         (0.00)       (1.73)
6. PPF                             0.00             0.00         0.40         0.00          0.40
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.40)         (0.00)       (0.40)
   Total                           0.00             0.94         7.69         7.77         16.40
                                   (0.00)          (0.57)      (5.26)         (0.00)       (5.83)




                                                - 16 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   2. Goods                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.25)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.25)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.54)            (0.53)            (0.00)           (1.07)
   4. Operating Cost (cons.)               0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.37)            (0.00)           (1.37)
   5. Inc. Recur. Costs                    0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. PPF                                  0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.34)            (0.00)           (0.34)
       Total                               0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.79)            (2.24)            (0.00)           (3.03)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. VEH., EQUIP.                0.65                                  0.25                               38.5
2. CONSUL. SERV.               1.15                                  0.57                               49.6
3. AGRIC. EXP.                 0.86                                  0.37                               43.0
4. ADAPTIVE RES..              0.23                                  0.88                               382.6
5. OP. COSTS                   1.42         1.70                     1.34         1.40                  94.4      82.4
6. PPFS REFUNDING              0.38                                  0.34                               89.5
7.UNALLOCATED                  0.50                                  0.00                                0.0




                                                          - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


The financial and the economic analysis were based on the actual achievement of the project in terms of
volumes and prices obtained by agricultural exporters throughout project implementation. This is the case
of a project that had achieved tangible tradable goods. The financial analysis is based on the observed
market prices at port of destination, which is the European market. Economic prices are obtained by
adjusting financial prices for distortions due to export duties (Droit Unique de Sortie) on the some of the
products, and foreign exchange premium estimated to be 5%, in spite of the fixed exchange rate between
the uro and the CFAF.

On that Basis, the results for the financial analysis are summarized as follows:

 NPV                              4 263,20
 IRR                               31,75%
 B/C RATIO                           3,10


In view of these results, the NPV is largely positive, the IRR is more than the double of the opportunity
cost of capital (OCC) estimated to be 12%, and the Benefit/Cost Ratio is greater than 1, showing that at
completion, the project performed very well and satisfactorily with respect to the current business
opportunities offered.

The sensitivity Analysis conducted on the basis of CIF price fluctuation shows the following results:

                                                    Sensivity Analysis

% Decrease in CIF Price                  IRR                          B/C                      NPV
                -5%                    16.80%                         2.19                 2413.57
               -10%                     4.41%                         1.31                  623.81
              -12.5%                   -2.04%                         0.87                 -271.07
              -15%                                                    0.51                - 986.98
             - 20%                                                   -0.45               - 2955.71

                                                 Switching Values
% Decrease in CIF Price                6.89%                       11.76%                 11.74%

This shows that the stability or strength of the computed project measures of wealth heavily relies on CIF
price variation. The IRR matches the OCC at 6.89% CIF price decrease. The B/C Ratio equals 1 when
price decrease reaches 11.76% and the NPV become zero with 11.74 CIF price decrease. Therefore, to take
advantage of price fluctuation, operators have to remain constantly on the market, to benefit from the
average annual price, which is more stable than the seasonal ones and they need to improve quality to
operate on quality markets. The stability of the project financial performance can be represented on the
following graphical display:

ECONOMIC ANALYSIS

The results of the economic can be shown as follows:

 NPV                              5 506,43
 ERR                               44,38%
 B/C RATIO                           3,71



                                                      - 18 -

This shows that the outcome of the economic analysis is even better than those of the financial analysis.
Which proves that the project's value to society is even greater than profit made by private operators. Both
the country and the beneficiaries are benefiting from the project. The project's results are better than
expected, because of the fact that the initial ERR (Economic Rate of Return) was estimated to be 17%.

The results of the sensitivity analysis are as follows:

                                                           Sensitivity Analysis (IRR)
 % Decrease in CIF Price                     IRR                    B/C                        NPV
                -5%                         25.57%                  2.75                   3 564.94
               -10%                         11.56%                  1.83                   1 685.69
               -12.5%                        5.19%                  1 37.                    746.07
               - 15%                        -0.04%                  1.00                       5.63
               -20%                                                -0.02                   - 2 072.80
                                                                   Switching Value

% Decrease in CIF Price                        9.828%               14.50%                    14.485%



With the following graphical representation:




                                                SensitivityAnalysis (B/C)


                                                                                                   3,00


                                                                                                   2,50


                                                                                                   2,00



      B/C                                                                                          1,50


                                                                                                   1,00


                                                                                                   0,50


                                                                                                   0,00
         -25%                -20%               -15%             -10%              -5%                  0%

                                            Increase in Investment Cost
                                                                                                               B/C




                                                     - 19 -

                            Sensitivity Analysis (IRR)

                                                                        30,00%



                                                                        25,00%



                                                                        20,00%



                                                                        15,00%

IRR
                                                                        10,00%



                                                                         5,00%



                                                                         0,00%
      -25%     -20%         -15%                -10%          -5%             0%

                                                                        -5,00%

                           Increase in Investment Cost




                         SensitivityAnalysis (B/C)


                                                                  2,50



                                                                  2,00



                                                                  1,50

   B/C
                                                                  1,00



                                                                  0,50



                                                                  0,00
      -25%    -20%      -15%               -10%          -5%          0%

                      Increase in Investment Cost
                                                                               B/C




                             - 20 -

                    Sensitivity Analysis (IRR)

                                                         20,00%




                                                         15,00%




                                                         10,00%


IRR

                                                          5,00%




                                                          0,00%
   -25%    -20%     -15%                -10%      -5%          0%



                                                         -5,00%

                   Increase in Investment Cost




                     - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/19/87                  2    AGRIC.ECONOMIST (1); SR          S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1);


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/15/1995                1    AGRIC. ECONOMIST (1);            HS              S
                                             SR FINANCIAL (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)


 Supervision

              05/21/1996                2    AGRIC. ECONOMIST (1); SR.        S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              01/22/1997                3    CONSULTANT (1); AGRIC.           HS             HS
                                             ECONOMIST (1); SR.
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              02/26/1998                5    SR. FINANCIAL ANALYST            HS             HS
                                             (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); FIANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ASSISTANT (1);
                                             AG. ECONOMIST (1)
              10/05/1998                1    AGRICULTURAL ECON. (1)           S              HS
              06/18/2000                1    AG. ECONOMIST (1)                S               S
              06/18/2001                5    SR AG.ECONOMIST (1); SR          S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SP. (1);
                                             PROCURENT ASSISTANT (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT ASSISTANT
                                             (1); TASK ASSISTANT (1)
              06/04/2002                6    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             DISBURSEMENT ASSISTANT
                                             (1); TASK ASSISTANT (1);
                                             SENIOR AG. ECONOMIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MNGT SPEC. (1);
                                             PRIVATE SECTOR SPEC. (1)


 ICR




                                              - 22 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                       616,600
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                              85,056
  Supervision                                                    500,520.61
  ICR                                                                18,000
  Total                                                        1,220,176.37




                                            - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Staff Appraisal Report, Republic of Cote d'Ivoire: Agricultural Export Promotion and Diversification
Project, Report
No. 14448-IVC, June 1, 1995

Memorandum of the President, Republic of Cote d'Ivoire: Agricultural Export Promotion and
Diversification Project, Report
No. P-6614-IVC, June 1, 1995

Etude diagnostique sommaire des filières agricoles non tradtionnelles cibles: manguier, anacardier, colatier,
karité, légumes, agrumes à essence (CIRAD, IDEFOR 1995)

Inventaire du verger cocotier en RCI (IDEFOR 1996)

Evaluation du potentiel de production de l'avocat destiné à l'exportation (ANADER 1996)

Evaluation du potentiel de devéloppement commercial de la floriculture ivoirienne sur les marchés
européens (COLEACP 1997)

Le marché européen de l'ananas fleur, une opportunité pour l'horticulture ivoirienne (COLEACP 1998)

L'environnement institutionnel du frêt aérien en Côte d'Ivoire (APA 1996)

Etude sur les conditions de mise en oeuvre des vols nolisés à partir de la Côte d'Ivoire (APA 1997)

L' industrie de l'anacarde en RCI (Document de symposium 1998)

Elaboration d'un dossier d'investissement dans la transformation de la noix de cajou (Diabaté 1999)

L'anacarde en RCI: situation actuelle et perspectives de devéloppement (Diabaté 2003)

Etude sur les technologies altenatives de transformation de la noix de cajou: cas du Ghana, du Benin et de
la Guinée-Bissau (Diabaté 2003)

Inventaires des sources de financement disponibles pour les opérateurs du secteur non traditionnel
(Eidrix-Afrique: 1997)

Consultation juridique pour la rédaction du projet de textes fondateurs de PROMEXA (CIREJ 1995)

Convention de recherche pour l'introduction des nouvelles variétés de piment et de gombo (IDESSA 1997)

Convention de recherche sur la lutte bilogique contre la cochenille farineuse du manguier (IDEFOR 1997).




                                                    - 26 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Report

  INTRODUCTION

           Le projet trouve son origine dans la volonté affichée du Gouvernement ivoirien d'élargir et de
  diversifier la gamme des productions agricoles exportées en direction de nouvelles familles de produits
  dit non traditionnels, afin de limiter les effets pervers de la dépendance à l'égard d'un ou d'un groupe
  très restreint de produits d'exportation. Contrairement au schéma de développement des cultures
  devenues traditionnelles (café, cacao, coton, hévéa, palmier à huile, etc.) qui a reposé essentiellement
  sur l'encadrement rapproché des structures spécialisées de l'Etat (recherche, production,
  commercialisation), le développement de ces nouvelles familles de produits devra être principalement
  actionné par le secteur privé.
  La mission générale du projet est de contribuer à la réduction de la pauvreté en milieu rural par :

  - une augmentation significative des volumes de productions exportées,
  - une amélioration tout aussi significative de la qualité et de la compétitivité des produits exportés, se
  traduisant par un retour financier positif pour les exportateurs,
  - la prise en charge et la poursuite du développement des filières concernées par une organisation
  professionnelle regroupant tous les acteurs du secteur agricole non traditionnel.

  C'est pourquoi, dès la phase préparatoire, le projet a associé les opérateurs privés dans les activités :

  a) d'identification des marchés géographiques, des réseaux de distribution,
  b) d'évaluation des exigences de qualité et de présentation, des fournisseurs traditionnels, des volumes
  en jeu, de connaissance des prix pratiqués;
  c) d'évaluation des capacités de production et du niveau de compétitivité des producteurs ivoiriens;
  d) de tests de commercialisation;
  e) d'adaptation des produits sur la base des du feed-back des tests de commercialisation.

      Les Produits et les marchés visés

  Sans que la liste soit limitative, les familles de produits visés par le projet sont :

  ·   les fruits frais (mangue, papaye, avocat, etc.);
  ·   les fleurs coupées, les feuillages et les plantes semi-finies;
  ·   les huiles essentielles et extraits industriels d'agrumes et de plantes aromatiques;
  ·   les noix transformées (noix et dérivés de coco, noix et dérivés de cajou);
  ·   les légumes frais de contre-saison (melon, gombo, piments);
  ·   les vivriers et autres ingrédients ethniques (igname, plantain, attiéké, roucou,, etc.);
  ·   Toutes nouvelles productions destinées à l'exportation qui peuvent être avantageusement cultivées
  en Côte d'Ivoire.

  Le projet vise également la diversification des marchés d'exportation, en direction:

  ·   De nouveaux marchés " internationaux ", d'Europe, autres que le traditionnel marché français,
  d'Amérique du Nord (USA, Canada) et d'Asie;
  ·   des marchés d'exportation " régionaux " (UEMOA, CEDEAO, autre régions d'Afrique).




                                                     - 27 -

Pour atteindre les résultats escomptés, les activités du Projet ont été structurées autour de 5 axes
d'appuis ou composantes techniques et d'une unité administrative, qui sont :

Composante 1 -        Structuration des opérateurs des filières en Organisations professionnelles
                      sectorielles
Composante 2 -        Recherche et développement de produits et de process de production,
Composante 3 -                Promotion commerciale et développement et diversification des Marchés
d'exportation
Composante       4  -         Financement     des    opérateurs,    des   organisations  professionnelles,
Développement de Services de conseils financiers:
Composante 5 -       Infrastructures de soutien des exportations
Composante 6 -       Cellule Autonome de Coordination (CAC) des activités du Projet.

Le financement du projet a été assuré par un Don canadien de 5,9 millions US$équivalent, un crédit
IDA de 5,833 millions US$, une contrepartie nationale de 1,1 million US$ équivalent, une
contribution de 1,7 million US$ des opérateurs participants au activités du Projet.

Prévu initialement sur une période de 5 ans, l'exécution du Projet s'est en définitive étendue sur 7ans
(juillet 96 à Juin 2003), suite à un prorogation intervenue en juillet 2001.

1. PERFORMANCES GLOBALES DU PROJET

Les performances globales du projet se mesurent au niveau des « outcome » réalisés, qui sont
eux-mêmes fonction des succès remportés en termes de « output » dans les principaux domaines de
développement des exportations que sont: amélioration de l'environnement institutionnel et
réglementaire, la disponibilité et la qualité des infrastructure de soutien des exportations, l'accès au
financement nécessaire, la quantité et la qualité des produits, etc.

Les output majeurs pour le développement des exportations

1.1 L'environnement institutionnel

A l'avènement du Projet, subsistait encore dans un environnement qualifié de libéral, un certain
nombre d'anachronismes institutionnels qui étaient de nature à entraver la compétitivité des
exportations. Il s'agissait entre autres :

- du monopole de fait accordé au duo Air Afrique - Air France en matière de fret au départ de
l'aéroport d'Abidjan, ce qui avait pour conséquence de faire de la Côte d'Ivoire une des destinations
les plus chères (passagers) et le fret au départ relativement le plus cher d'Afrique,
- du monopole sur les transports maritimes concédé de fait à la Sitram et à SDV qui obérait
également le coût du lignes maritimes au départ d'Abidjan et de San Pédro,

Le rôle du Projet dans le démantèlement de ces monopoles a été plus actif au niveau du fret aérien, en
réussissant non seulement à obtenir l'ouverture de l'aéroport de Yamoussokro, mais surtout en faisant
la démonstration par l'organisation de 80 vols nolisés entre juin 1997 et juin 1999, que le fret aérien
pourrait être de 20 à 30 % plus bas que ce qu'il était si l'environnement est libéralisé.

Au delà des organisations sectorielles dont il a suscité la création et assuré parfois l'animation, e
PPDEA a surtout contribué à la création de PROMEXA, association pour la promotion des


                                                 - 28 -

exportations agricoles, dont la vocation essentielle est de fédérer tous les opérateurs du secteur non
traditionnel, directement ou au travers de leurs organisations professionnelles, et de leur fournir les
services dont ils ont besoins pour leur développement.

1.2 L'environnement réglementaire

Pour améliorer la compétitivité des exportations ivoiriennes, l'OCAB a pris la tête d'un groupe de
pression comprenant les membres de PROMEXA pour obtenir la détaxation des intrants de production
(engrais, pesticides, DDO) et de conditionnement (emballages) utilisés dans les productions
d'exportation.

De même et grâce à l'intervention énergique du GIENA (groupement des industriels et exportateurs de
noix d'anacarde), l'Etat a dû ramener le niveau du DUS sur les noix de cajou exportées de 150 à 10
FCFA/kg. Aujourd'hui et sous la pression constante des opérateurs de la filière, une structuration est
en cours visant à mieux préciser les limites des fonctions de réglementation et d'encadrement de l'Etat
et celles des acteurs opérationnels (producteurs, commerçants, transformateurs, exportateurs, etc.),
ainsi que les conditions et modalités d'intervention des uns et des autres.

Les opérateurs de la filière des fleurs et plantes n'ont pas eu le punch suffisant (parce que peu
solidaires) pour obtenir la détaxation des toiles d'ombrières et des cônes d'emballage, tout ce qu'il y a
d'essentiel à la préservation de la qualité des produits floricoles destinés à l'exportation.

1.3 Les Infrastructures de soutien des exportations

A l'origine du projet, il était envisagé d'encourager une politique d'augmentation des capacités de
stockage tampon au niveau de l'aéroport, afin de faire face à une augmentation conséquente des
quantités de produits transitant par ces infrastructures. A la pratique, l'on s'est rendu compte qu'avec
un bon taux de rotation des vols avec de bonnes capacités de fret, les infrastructures existantes restent
encore suffisantes pour faire face même à un éventuel doublement un trafic. Au demeurant, les
principaux transitaires exploitants des infrastructures de stockage sont suffisamment professionnels et
solvables pour convenir avec l'Autorité qui leur a concédé l'exploitation du patrimoine public, le plan
d'investissement d'extension et le financement qui le sous-tend.

Par ailleurs, la cellule de préparation du Projet, qui est devenue par la suite Cellule Autonome de
Coordination du Projet a joué un rôle très actif dans le projet de réhabilitation et de modernisation du
Quai fruitier d'Abidjan, en pilotant les premières consultations de cabinets d'études pour la réalisation
des études de faisabilité technique. Par la suite et pour tenir compte de ce que l'OCAB était d'une
part, le bénéficiaire direct du financement destiné à cette réhabilitation, et d'autre part le
concessionnaire à titre exclusif de l'exploitation du Quai fruitier, la Cellule de préparation du PPDEA
s'est dessaisie du dossier du quai au profit de l'OCAB qui l'a mené jusqu'à son terme à la satisfaction
des tous les partenaires (Etat, Port autonome d'Abidjan, Union européenne, planteurs,
manutentionnaire, affréteur de navires, etc.).

Cette infrastructure de grande qualité qui a coûté la bagatelle de 15 milliards FCFA (dont 4 milliards
de l'Etat ivoirien et 11 milliards de l'Union européenne) est également utilisée par tous les
exportateurs membres de PROMEXA, pourvu que les produits exportés ne présentent pas
d'incompatibilité avec les exigences de transport des produits phares de l'industrie fruitière ivoirienne
que sont l'ananas et la banane dessert (450 000 tonnes au total).




                                                - 29 -

    Pour soutenir le développement de produits tels que la papaye, le PPDEA a dû mettre en place deux
    centres de conditionnement (à Azaguié et à Yamoussokro) pour être exploités collectivement par les
    exportateurs, individuels ou regroupés. Ces infrastructures ont été à la base des progrès fulgurants
    réalisés dans l'amélioration de la qualité des papayes exportées, jusqu'à ce que des problèmes
    sanitaires non maîtrisés à temps aient eu raison de l'enthousiasme des producteurs et contribué à faire
    chuter la production. Ces infrastructures ont été également utilisées pour conditionner de l'igname
    ainsi que des fleurs, en étant que des équipements spécialisés leur soient dédiés.

    De même, le PPDEA a soutenu le financement de quatre (4) centres de conditionnement de la mangue
    dans la région Nord du pays, contribuant ainsi à élever le standard de qualité de la mangue sur le
    marché européen.

    1.4 Le financement de la production et des exportations

    Ici, les performances du PPDEA n'ont pas été à la hauteur des attentes, car ni les opérateurs, ni la
    Cellule de coordination n'ont réussi à convaincre les banques de prendre des risques calculés en
    finançant des opérations dans le secteur non traditionnel. En effet, la méconnaissance de la production
    agricole par les banques commerciales ainsi que les préjugés défavorables entretenus par celles-ci sur
    le système des ventes à la commission généralement pratiqué dans le commerce international des fruits
    et légumes ont achevé de convaincre les banques que l'exportation de produits frais est un métier à
    haut risque dans lequel il ne fait pas bon de s'engager.

    1.5 Les principaux resultats acquis

    Les volumes de productions exportées

    Dans les documents de formulation du PPDEA, l'objectif quantitatif visé était de contribuer à
    augmenter de 50 %, les volumes des exportations au terme des 5 années d'exécution. Au bilan final,
    on constate dans toutes les filières auxquelles s'est intéressé, les volumes des exportations ont connu
    des accroissements importants, allant de 70% (huiles essentielles) à 700 % (noix brutes de cajou),
    entre 1996 et 2002*? À l'exception de la papaye qui a connu une évolution en dents de scie. Au total
    donc, le volume moyen des exportations des six principaux produits représentant 80 à 90 % des
    exportations non traditionnelles a quintuplé entre 1996 et 2002, soit en 6 ans, comme en témoigne le
    tableau ci-dessous.

                                                                            1996                 2002
Mangue (tonnes)                                                             6000                15000
Fleurs et plantes (tonnes)                                                   1100                1800
Huiles essentielles (tonnes)                                                  120                  300
Noix de cajou (tonnes)                                                      15000              105000
Papaye (tonnes)                                                               280                  100
Produits ethniques (igname, attiéké) en tonnes                                  5                  200
Total (tonnes)                                                            22 500              119 400



    En termes d'emplois, la croissance du nombre des emplois dans le secteur non traditionnel a connu une
    croissance aussi significative, la corrélation étant très forte entre le volume des productions et la
    consommation de main d'oeuvre. On évalue à environ 12 000 personnes, les producteurs qui étaient
    touchés directement ou indirectement par les activités du secteur agricole non traditionnel, alors qu'ils



                                                    - 30 -

étaient moins de 6000 en 1996.

Le projet a également contribué à la création de 5 nouvelles organisations professionnelles (APEPCI,
PROMEXA, FLORACI, OCABmangue, GIENA), en plus de l'UPHCI qui existait déjà dans le
secteur non traditionnel.

Les Consommations budgétaires

L'atteinte des résultats satisfaisants rappelés plus haut et qui n'ont été possible que grâce à la levée
des contraintes et à l'amélioration des conditions d'exécution a nécessité la consommation d'un
montant d'environ 6 milliards de francs CFA, dont 1,937 million CFA au titre du crédit IDA, soit
56,5% du montant négocié.

Le Don canadien qui constitue l'autre composante importante du financement du PPDEA a été épuisé
à fin 2001. Ce financement dont l'utilisation se faisait de façon autonome, en dehors des fourches
caudines du SIGFIP aura permis de soustraire momentanément l'association PROMEXA des effets
néfastes (coupures de téléphone, d'électricité) des crises de trésorerie de l'Etat des années 2000 et
2001 résultant de la suspension des décaissements de la Banque mondiale.

En conclusion de ce qui précède, on peut donc dire que les résultats obtenus dans l'élimination ou
l'atténuation des principales contraintes au développement des exportations ont permis de réaliser des
performances jugées très satisfaisantes par tous les partenaires du PPDEA, si on se réfère aux
résultats techniques atteints, tant au niveau des composantes qu'au niveau des filières.

22002* les résultats de fin de projet sont ceux de 2002 car l'année 2003 a été fortement perturbé par
la crise armée de septembre 2002 ;
002*

2. RESULTATS PAR COMPOSANTE

2.1 Composante `'Structuration institutionnelle des opérateurs des filières non traditionnelles en
                     Organisations professionnelles sectorielles''

Les opérateurs de quasiment toutes les filières sectorielles touchées par le projet se sont organisées en
structures professionnelles de diverses natures juridiques : associations (UPHCI, APEPCI,
OCAB-mangue, GIENA), coopératives (FRUITINA, FLORACI, FRUITELPACI),
GIE (GEFELCI).

Toutes ces structures sectorielles sont membres de PROMEXA, association inter-secorielle dont la
vocation est d'assurer la pérennisation des acquis du Projet.

2.2 Composante `'Recherche & Développement de produits et de process''

De nombreuses initiatives ont été prises en matière de recherche et développement avec:

- l'ex- IDESSA pour la conduite de tests d'introductions de nouvelles variétés de piment et de gombo
destinées à l'exportation,
- l'ex-IDEFOR/DFA pour i) une étude de caractérisation sommaire de la culture du colatier, ii)
l'inventaire des vergers de cocotiers, iii) des tests d'introduction de melon, ii) un projet de lutte


                                                - 31 -

biologique contre la cochenille farineuse du manguier,
- le CIRAD (France) pour réaliser des survols sur les productions de mangue, d'anacarde, d'huiles
essentielles, de légumes,
- l'ex-Novartis (firme agrochimique) et le centre suisse de recherche scientifique pour des tests de
comportement de variétés de melon, piment, mini-maïs,,
- l'Université Abobo-Adjamé pour l'identification des maladies fongiques du papayer,
- l'ANADER pour l'encadrement des cultures non traditionnelles

Malheureusement, on retiendra que ces initiatives n'ont pas toujours été couronnées de succès,
notamment celles conclues avec les structures nationales de recherche (ANADER, ex-IDESSA et
IDEFOR), en raison essentiellement de situation de crise structurelle qui vivaient ces institutions.

2.3 Composante `'Promotion commerciale et développement et diversification des Marchés
d'exportation''

La participation des opérateurs à de nombreuses manifestions promotionnelles et commerciales (une
quarantaine) à travers le monde (ici en Côte d'Ivoire, en Afrique, en Europe, en Amérique du Nord, en
Asie) participent de l'accroissement des volumes des produits exportés.
En soutien au développement des exportations, des actions spécifiques ont été déployées en faveur de
l'ouverture d'un point d'expédition charter aérien à partir de l'aéroport de Yamoussokro, fermé depuis
1999 suite au coup d'Etat.

2.4 Composante `'Financement des opérateurs, des organisations professionnelles et
Développement de Services de conseils financiers''

Malgré de nombreuses sollicitations exprimées, moins d' une trentaine d'opérateurs ont pu bénéficier
de financement dans le cadre du Projet, pour un volume global d'environ 1,0 milliard CFA de diverses
sources (fonds sociaux (7), Fonds de solidarité du Conseil de l'Entente (3), FISDES (10), autres fonds
(3).

Ainsi, l'idée entretenue et imposée par la Banque mondiale selon laquelle des ressources ad hoc
adaptées au financement des opérateurs n'étaient pas nécessaires au montage du Projet, sous prétexte
que les Banques commerciales locales devenues très liquides à la suite de la dévaluation du franc CFA
seraient toutes disposées à financer les opérateurs du secteur non traditionnel a été battue en brèche
par la réalité. En effet, aucune banque commerciale ivoirienne n'a accordé aucun financement, en
dehors de quelques facilités de caisse obtenues d'ailleurs avec difficultés.

2.5 Composante `'Infrastructures de soutien des exportations''

De nombreux centres de conditionnement ont pu être installés pour le traitement des fruits et légumes
frais (mangue, papaye, igname).

2.6 Composante'' Cellule Autonome de Coordination (CAC) ou de gestion des activités du
Projet''.

Malgré la complexité du montage institutionnel du Projet, la composante « Unité de gestion » a fait
preuve d'une performance remarquable reconnue par tous les partenaires du Projet, en réussissant i) à
mobiliser les ressources nécessaires à l'exécution des activités (ressources humaines, financières et
matérielles), ii) à intégrer dans un format unique, les rapport d'activités, les plans annuels d'activités,


                                               - 32 -

tout en répondant aux exigences des différents bailleurs de fonds, iii) à créer les conditions d'une
collaboration entre les différentes institutions internes et externes intervenant dans l'exécution du
Projet.

La Cellule Autonome d'exécution peut être créditée d'un sens élevé d'équité à l'égard des opérateurs
et des organisations professionnelles dans l'allocation des ressources financières, ainsi que d'une
utilisation transparente jamais démentie des ressources financières affectées au Projet.

Cependant, trois points faibles peuvent être mis au débit de la CAC. Il s'agit :

2.6.1 de la non officialisation du manuel des procédures de gestion administratives et financières,
manuel cependant rédigé et utilisé en interne pour gérer les rapports entre le projet et ses différents
partenaires clients et fournisseurs). On pourrait même indiquer des modules spécifiques de gestion
administrative concernant le carburant, les missions du personnel ont même été informatisés.

2.6.2 de quelques manquements à déplorer dans le respect scrupuleux des procédures de passation
des marchés, plus par méconnaissance des procédures que pour tout objectif inavoué,

2.6.3 du fait que l'administration financière du PPDEA (pas plus d'ailleurs que celle de la Banque et
du cabinet d'audit) n'ait pas pu trouver de formule satisfaisante et fiable de comptabilisation de la
contribution des opérateurs au financement du coût des activités du Projet. En effet, l'approche de
cette contrepartie sur la base des communications en Conseil des Ministres n'est satisfaisante que pour
les activités exécutéedans le cadre de missions à l'extérieur du pays, ce qui est loin de refléter toutes
les réalités des interventions du Projet.

3. RESULTATS PAR FILIERE (voir les indicateurs de performance en annexe)

3.1 Fleurs, feuillages et plantes

Après une décennie de stagnation, voire de régression, les volumes exportés ont connu une croissance
très sensible depuis 1996, passant d'environ 1.100 tonnes en 1996 à plus de 1800 Tonnes en 2002,
boostés par la dévaluation du francs CFA. Le taux d'augmentation des production floricoles auraient
plus être encore plus important si toutes les opportunités du secteur avaient pu être exploitées,
notamment, l'ananas fleurs, et si les conditions de production avaient permis d'avoir des produits de
meilleure qualité.

3.2 Papaye

Révélée au grand public par le PPDEA, la culture intensive du papayer avait suscité un vif intérêt
auprès des candidats agriculteurs. En 1999, on dénombrait une centaine de parcelles plantées en
papayers, totalisant plus de 150 hectares. Les volumes exportés ont la pointe de 450 tonnes. Mais
suite à des retours financiers négatifs consécutifs à des problèmes sanitaires non maîtrisés à temps et à
une gestion approximative de la coopérative FRUITINA qui regroupaient 80% des planteurs en
activités, de nombreux planteurs ont cessé leurs activités au point qu'il n'existe plus aujourd'hui
qu'une vingtaine d'exploitants. Cependant, le fait remarquable est l'entrée de planteurs professionnels,
anciens producteurs de banane, dans l'activité de production de papaye, ainsi que le choix de la
papaye comme culture de diversification de leurs activités par certaines grosses entreprises agricoles
de la place (SCB).
Par ailleurs, la relative maîtrise de l'expédition par voie maritime et l'utilisation de la logistique


                                               - 33 -

OCAB confère de réels atouts de compétitivité à l'origine ivoirienne sur les marchés européens.

Malgré le renforcement de la qualité professionnelle des acteurs de la filière papaye, le développement
de celle-ci reste précaire en raison de nombreux inconnus, notamment au plan de la maîtrise sanitaire
pathologies et ennemis du papayer, et même de l'itinéraire agronomique. De plus avec la guerre et les
difficultés de communication avec les pays voisins du Nord, les écarts de tri au conditionnement ne
peuvent pas être commercialement bien valorisés.

3.3 Mangue

La filière mangue est celle dans laquelle des progrès spectaculaires ont été réalisés, tant en terme de
reconversion variétale pour coller aux exigences des marchés européens, d'augmentation des quantités
que d'amélioration de la qualité des produits exportés. Ainsi, les quantités de mangue exportées sont
passées de 6.000 tonnes en 1996 à plus de 12.000 tonnes en 2002, tandis que les prix moyens sur les
marchés européens passaient de moins de 5,00 FF à environ 6,00 FF de l'époque. De telles
performances n'ont pu être obtenues que suite à des formations sur la qualité s'appuyant sur des
supports graphiques et vidéo, à la généralisation des centres de conditionnement agréés pour le
traitement des mangues. Pour les exportateurs, toutes ces activités se traduisent par des retours
financiers positifs permettant d'investir dans l'amélioration de l'environnement de production
(entretien et traitement sanitaire des vergers, réalisation de pare-feux), de récolte et de
conditionnement. La plus value de l'activité d'exportation de mangue sera d'autant plus élevée que les
écarts de tri pourront être recyclés comme matières premières dans d'autres industries locales
(confiture, pulpe, fruits séchés, etc.).

Il subsiste cependant des menaces réelles sur l'avenir de la filière mangue, constituées par la cochenille
farineuse du manguier, la mouche du fruit, l'anthracnose et bien d'autres maladies qui doivent être
vigoureusement combattues si l'on veut préserver les perspectives de développement de la filière
mangue. Dans cette perspective, il est à souhaiter que le Fonds Interprofessionnel de la Recherche et
du Conseil Agricole (FIRCA) qui vient d'être mis en place soit mis à contribution pour le financement
les programmes de recherche visant à assainir et préserver l'état sanitaire des vergers.

3.4 Anacarde

Filière à contraste caractérisée par une montée en puissance fulgurante de la production de noix brutes
(passant de moins de 16.000 tonnes en 1996 à plus de 100.000 tonnes en 2002) et une chute
inquiétante de la production transformée localement (800 tonnes en 99 à moins de 500 tonnes en
2001).

La production de noix brutes est appelée à progresser très fortement au cours des 5 à 10 prochaines
années, compte tenu de l'importance des la superficie des nouveaux vergers âgés de moins de 10 ans,
estimée à plus de 50 000 hectares. Mais si aucune volonté politique n'est affirmée et engagée en
faveur d'une transformation rapide par le décorticage d'une partie significative de la production,
l'avenir de la filière risque de s'assombrir à moyen terme, en particulier si l'Inde, principal pays
acheteur de la noix brute ivoirienne parvenait à saturer la capacité des usines installées à partir de sa
production nationale.

Au cas où une telle volonté se manifesterait, il serait souhaitable que le choix technologique pour le
décorticage privilégie les unités semi-artisanales pour lesquelles les besoins d'investissements en
équipements nécessaires sont de 5 fois plus faibles que dans le cas des unités indiennes (20 000


                                               - 34 -

FCFA/tonne contre 100 000 F/tonne), ce qui élargit la base des promoteurs potentiels aux
organisations professionnelles (coopératives de producteurs). De plus, les capacités de management
exigées pour de telles unités sont disponibles localement.

Mais avant, des efforts doivent être réalisés dans l'amélioration de la qualité de la noix, facteur
essentielle de valorisation commerciale et de rentabilité des unités de décorticage. A cet effet, les
normes de qualité de la noix brutes de cajou qui viennent d'être adoptées en 2003 gagneraient à être
largement diffusées. De même, des séances de sensibilisation et de formation de tous les intervenants
de la filière (producteurs, pisteurs, collecteurs primaires, grossistes, agents d'encadrement, etc.) aux
critères de qualité et au calcul des taux de réfaction appliqués par les acheteurs indiens devront être
également réalisées

3.5 Huiles essentielles

La filière des huiles essentielles est probablement celle qui a le plus su valoriser rapidement les appuis
qui lui ont été apportés par le PPDEA. Aussi, les résultats suivants ont-ils pu être atteints :

- création dès 1995 de la première organisation professionnelle du secteur non traditionnel (
l'APEPCI) après l'UPHCI qui existait 10 ans plus tôt,

- augmentation de 50 % à 60 % de la valeur commerciale unitaire des huiles, grâce à un
accroissement de la part des ventes aux utilisateurs finaux au détriment des courtiers,

- reconnaissance internationale de la Côte d'Ivoire par les professionnels du secteur comme l'une des
origines majeures des huiles essentielles au plan mondial. Notons à cet effet que la Côte d'Ivoire s'est
distinguée en remportant le premier prix du concours international des posters promotionnels des
huiles essentielles en 1998 à Dignes (France).

Au plan de la production, les volumes d'huiles produites et exportés se sont accrus globalement de 15
à 20 % au cours des six (6) dernières années.

Les entreprises de la filière des huiles essentielles étant de type industriel, elles disposent
individuellement en leur sein des ressources nécessaires à leur développement de façon autonome.
Cette apparence d'autosuffisance des entreprises du secteur semble jouer contre l'esprit de solidarité et
de coopération qui devrait les animer dans le cadre de la conquête de nouveaux marchés. C'est
pourquoi il n'est pas inutile de leur recommander de développer toutes les synergies possibles afin
d'améliorer leur compétitivité sur les marchés mondiaux. Ces synergies devront porter notamment sûr:

- la création et la gestion en commun d'un site web pour faire connaître davantage l'origine Côte
d'Ivoire aux partenaires commerciaux,

- l'organisation d'un événement promotionnel de grande envergure dénommé « Journées
promotionnelles des huiles ivoiriennes » dont l'objectif final sera de positionner la Côte d'Ivoire
comme une origine de grande production et de grande réputation en matière de qualité,
- l'établissement des normes de qualité et la caractérisation des huiles ivoiriennes afin que celles-ci
constituent un référentiel de Qualité, au même titre que les huiles italiennes,
- l'établissement d'un partenariat avec les services de recherche (CNRA) à l'effet de développer une
capacité nationale de production de plants de qualité pour le renouvellement des vergers en cas de
besoin.


                                                - 35 -

3.6 Igname

Toutes les activités programmées pour structurer et professionnaliser le métier l'exportateur d'igname
n'ont pu se réaliser, à cause des restrictions budgétaires intervenues à la suite du coup d'Etat de
décembre 1999. Cependant, le PPDEA a pu encadrer et former sur le tas quelques opérateurs afin de
répondre à des besoins d'igname exprimés par des importateurs européens. En 1999, les opérateurs
participant au PPDEA ont ainsi exporté plus de 150 tonnes d'igname par le canal de la coopérative
FRUITINA. A cet égard, des emballages pour ignames d'exportation ont été spécialement conçus et
développés pour soutenir l'activité.

Bien que le volume exporté ait eu tendance à baisser, il a subsisté un courant significatif d'exportation
d'environ 1 conteneur de 40 pieds par mois pendant 7 à 8 mois par an, soit entre 140 et 160 tonnes.

Les perspectives de développement des exportations d'igname sont réelles sur les marchés européens
et américains, malgré la concurrence extrêmement sévère du Ghana et dans une moindre mesure du
Nigeria. En effet, la possibilité pour ces deux pays de dévaluer à leur convenance leurs monnaie
(respectivement le cedi et le naïra) pour accroître la compétitivité de leurs exportation et engranger des
devises pour le financement des importations leur confère un avantage comparatif sur la Côte d'Ivoire,
surtout à des périodes de faible disponibilité d'igname.

Cependant, si les opérateurs ivoiriens développent des réelles compétences professionnelles et des
stratégies adaptées en matière d'exportation d'igname, i) en mettant en place des partenariats avec les
groupements de producteurs et en formant ces derniers aux exigences des marchés d'exportation par le
choix des variétés et les techniques de production, ii) en investissant dans des infrastructures de
conditionnement et dans des moyens logistiques conséquents, ils pourraient compéter valablement avec
leurs collègues ghanéens, bien que ceux-ci aient une longue tradition en matière d'exportation.

Pour ce faire, les exportateurs ivoiriens ainsi que leurs fournisseurs devraient bénéficier de formations
ciblées en matière de bonnes pratiques de production, de récolte, de traitement, de conditionnement et
d'exportation d'igname. Ces formations devraient s'appuyer sur des supports graphiques (posters,
affiches) et surtout sur des supports vidéo        pour tirer avantages des possibilités qu'offrent les
nouvelles technologies de l'information et de la communication.

3.7 Attiéké

Grâce au soutien multiforme (design d'emballage, analyses microbiologiques, promotion
commerciale), que le PPDEA a apporté à la promotrice SFA, l'attiéké séché de la marque « la
marguérite » s'est imposé auprès des professionnels de la distribution de produits ethniques aussi bien
en Europe (surtout en France) qu'en Amérique du Nord (Canada, USA). Les exportations d'attiéké
séché ont ainsi atteint une pointe en volume de 130 tonnes en 1999 avant de retomber à moins de 50
tonnes aujourd'hui, en raison de la faible capacité de l'outil de séchage, et des difficultés pour la
promotrice à trouver le financement nécessaire l'accroissement de la capacité technique de production.

L'incapacité de SFA a honorer les nombreuses commandes fermes qui lui sont passées semblent avoir
laissé l'opportunité à de nouveaux promoteurs de se lancer dans la production et l'exportation
d'attiéké, ce qui est plutôt de bonne augure pour une présence continue et remarquée de l'attiéké
d'origine Côte d'Ivoire sur les marchés cibles.




                                                - 36 -

En termes de perspectives de développement du marché international de l'attiéké, on en droit de penser
qu'elles sont réelles, si l'on en juge l'intérêt manifesté par l'une des plus grandes compagnies
mondiales de préparation de produits ethniques (commande d'essai d'un conteneur de 40 pieds), les
besoins jamais satisfaits (1 conteneur de 40 pieds par mois) du distributeur français « Racines », ainsi
que bien d'autres commandes, le total des besoins pouvant être évalué à plus d'un millier de tonnes
par an.
Dans la sous-région ouest africaine, un pays comme le Mali a un potentiel d''importation d'au moins
500 tonnes par an d'attiéké séché.


4. DIFFICULTES RENCONTREES

Montage institutionnel, administration : décaissement (sigfip et sce au privé,), le cofinancement,

Les difficultés rencontrées dans la gestion du PPDEA se sont situées à plusieurs niveaux.

4.1 Au niveau de la mobilisation des ressources financières

        Jusqu'au mois de Novembre 1998, les procédures de mobilisation des ressources financières
se faisaient de façon relativement simple, car n'impliquant que 3 personnes : le comptable qui
préparait la documentation relative au décaissement, le Directeur du Projet et le Directeur des
investissements publics qui co-signaient les chèques de liquidation des dépenses. La durée moyenne
d'une procédure de décaissement était de 3 jours ouvrés.

        Avec l'avènement du SIGFIPen Novembre 1998 impliquant la CAA et les DAAF des
Ministères dans la procédure de décaissement, le circuit s'est considérablement allongé et est en
moyenne de 24 jours ouvrés pour les procédures accélérés (paiement de salaire) et de 45 à 60 jours
ouvrés pour les procédures normales, indépendamment de toute difficultés de trésorerie. En tenant
compte des difficultés de trésorerie, les délais de décaissement peuvent atteindre 6, voire 8 mois.

        Cette lourdeur et cette longueur dans la procédure de décaissement a perturbé ou empêché la
bonne exécution de nombre d'activités agricoles rythmées par les saisons.

        En plus de la lourdeur de la nouvelle procédure de décaissement, la suppression des caisses
d'avance a agit également de façon négative sur la bonne exécution des activités dans la mesure où de
petites réparations, notamment de véhicules, de photocopieurs, d'éléments du système informatique
(imprimante, disque dur, etc.) ne pouvaient être assurées, les réparateurs exigeant d'être payés au
comptant.

4.2 Au niveau de la compréhension et de l'appropriation du montage institutionnel du Projet par
les partenaires.

        Le PPDEA est certainement le premier projet à avoir innové dans son dispositif institutionnel
en exigeant que les membres de l'équipe de gestion soient des agents de secteur privé, régis par la
convention interprofessionnelle. Cette innovation avait mis à nue la nécessité pour les membres de la
cellule de gestion d'appartenir et de dépendre d'un employeur ayant le statut d'entité privée.
PROMEXA qui venait d'être créée est apparue comme l'entité idéale pour jouer le rôle d'employeur
des membres de la cellule de gestion, rôle qui lui a été formellement reconnu par l'Etat qui signe une
convention d'exécution du PPDEA avec PROMEXA. Ainsi, le cellule d'exécution du Projet devient



                                                 - 37 -

un instrument au service de deux parties à la convention, c'est à dire :

- au service de l'Etat de Côte d'Ivoire pour l'exécution du projet pour lequel il a négocié des crédits
de financement et des dons auprès des bailleurs de fonds,
- au service de PROMEXA qu'il aide à grandir et à se développer afin qu'il se substitue à terme au
Projet.

Pendant toute la durée du Projet, ce montage institutionnel a suscité inquiétude, réserve, voire
réprobation surtout de la part des partenaires de l'administration financière, qui disent presque tous ne
pas comprendre cette discrimination positive en faveur des agents d'un projet de l'Etat et qui
perçoivent des salaires hors normes `'fonction publique''. Il a fallu, à chaque changement du
responsable de cette administration que le Directeur de la Cellule d'exécution soit invité à expliquer
(sans toujours convaincre), à fournir des documents justificatifs, notamment la convention d'exécution
signée entre l'Etat et PROMEXA pour les états de salaire soient signés.

C'est pour quoi à l'avenir et si des projets de ce genre devraient voir le jour à nouveau, il serait bon
qu'une très large autonomie de gestion soit accordée à la Cellule de gestion (ce qui était le cas de 1996
à fin 1998, période sur laquelle l'essentiel des résultats du projet ont été acquis ou préparés), pour
assurer une certaine cohérence avec son statut privé. Si une telle précaution n'était pas prise, on
risquerait de créer une situation où le coût administratif du Projet est anormalement élevé par rapport
au coût des activités, comme cela a été le cas du PPDEA de 2000 à 2003.

4.3 Au niveau des modalités et échéances de la pérennisation des acquis par PROMEXA et les
organisations professionnelles sectorielles

         L'un des indicateurs les plus pertinents de mesure du succès du Projet est le nombre et surtout
la capacité des organisations professionnelles des opérateurs à prendre en charge le développement de
leurs membres et des filières concernées. Ainsi, l'un des objectifs majeurs visés au terme du Projet
était que les différentes organisations professionnelles aient développé chacune, un niveau élevé
d'autonomie opérationnelle et financière, leur permettant de se constituer en plate-forme véritablement
privée de concertation et de planification du développement des filières. L'analyse de la situation des
différentes organisations professionnelles de filières conduit aux constats suivants:

         4.3.1 Existence juridique et fonctionnement des organisations professionnelles

    De façon générale, les organisations professionnelles créées dans le cadre du PPDEA existent
officiellement, conformément à la réglementation sur les associations en Côte d'Ivoire, même si dans
nombre de cas, seules les attestations de dépôt de dossiers tiennent lieu de pièces administrative de leur
reconnaissance officielle.

         Pour ce qui concerne les organisations de nature coopérative, la reconnaissance de leur
existence juridique a été formellement attestée par la délivrance d'un agrément (avec numéro).

         De toutes les organisations professionnelles ainsi créées avec le soutien du PPDEA,
PROMEXA est celle qui fonctionne de façon normale, en se conformant autant que possible aux
textes dont elle s'est dotés : tenues régulières des Conseils d'Administration et des Assemblées
générales. Cette performance est à la mesure de la qualité des ressources humaines qui ont été dédiées
à l'encadrement de PROMEXA (secrétaire exécutif, chargés de programmes, etc.).




                                               - 38 -

        Contrairement à PROMEXA, les organisations sectorielles n'ont bénéficié que d'un
encadrement relativement léger, quelque fois de façon discontinue, ce qui n'a pas facilité
l'appropriation pleine et entière des mécanismes de gestion desdites organisations par les
professionnels de la filière. De plus, toutes les organisations créées dans le cadre du PPDEA n'ont tout
au plus que 7 ans d'âge, durée largement insuffisante pour leur conférer toutes les capacités
nécessaires à leur auto-prise en charge.

4.3.2       Développement des capacités d' autonomie financière des organisations

        Par excès d'optimisme, les partenaires du PPDEA avaient tous estimé, explicitement ou
        implicitement, que PROMEXA en particulier devrait avoir atteint un certain degré
        d'autonomie financière à la fin du Projet. Ce faisant, ils ont tous perdu de vue que rassembler
        de nombreux petits producteurs (dont de nombreux analphabètes) au sein d'une seule entité,
        leur faire acquérir l'esprit et le bon réflexe de travailler en groupe sur des préoccupations
        communes à tous, relève d'un travail extrêmement patient, s'étalant sur plusieurs décennies.

Capacités techniques

   En général, les capacités techniques que peuvent développer des organisations professionnelles
dépendent du niveau leurs capacités financières, surtout que les services que ces organisations doivent
fournir à leurs membres sont sous-traités auprès de compétences reconnues qu'il faut rémunérer.
Inversement, le développement d'expertises de haut niveau par les associations professionnelles au
bénéfice de leurs membres a pour effet de les rassembler autour desdites associations, de les rendre
disponibles pour apporter plus facilement leur contribution au financement des activités dont ils
bénéficient. Ainsi se développe et s'accroît dans le temps, la capacité d'autonomie financière des
organisations professionnelles.

5. QUELLES LECONS PEUT-ON TIRER DE L'EXECUTION DU PPDEA?

Pour l'avenir, les leçons suivantes doivent être retenues :

5.1 Limiter les risques de disfonctionnement entre les dispositions de l' accord de crédits de
financement négocié auprès de l'IDA et la pratique de l'exécution du Projet.

En effet, l'accord de crédit reconnaît que l'exécution du PPDEA doit est assurée par une cellule
autonome de coordination constituée uniquement des agents dont le statut relève du secteur privé, ce
qui justifie l'ancrage du personnel de la CAC dans une structure juridique de droit privé (une
association professionnelle), ainsi que le niveau relativement élevé de rémunération versées à ce
personnel. Le profil privé de la Cellule autonome de coordination autorise à penser que pour être
efficace, elle devrait bénéficier d'une large autonomie opérationnelle, voire d'une autonomie totale
dans la gestion financière du Projet. Malheureusement et se réfugiant derrière l'argument que le crédit
a été négocié par l'Etat de Côte d'Ivoire, la Banque a refusé de soutenir la Cellule de gestion dans sa
quête de plus d'autonomie, en sortant du carcan du SIFGIP. Le fait que la Cellule d'exécution ait été
progressivement entraînée dans le SIGFIP depuis 1999 pour la transformer aujourd'hui en l'équivalent
d'une Direction de l'Administration centrale a gravement nui a son efficacité et au taux de
décaissement. Mais cette situation n'a pas empêché la Banque de maintenir le même niveau d'exigence
de résultats vis à vis du Projet!!!

5.2 La pérennisation des acquis du Projet au travers de PROMEXA n'est pas compatible avec


                                                 - 39 -

une vision de court terme.

Pendant la préparation du projet, il était comme une chose acquise que PROMEXA deviendrait
capable, seulement trois ans après sa création, de prendre le relais de la Cellule Autonome de
Coordination dans la gestion technique et administrative du Projet, de financer et le financement de sa
base administrative, et le financement au moins partiel des activités qui seraient exécutées. C'est cette
approche que l'on retrouve à l'article 9, alinéas 9d et 9e de la convention d'exécution du Projet dans le
concept de « privatisation totale du PPDEA » C'est également cette conviction qui est reflétée dans le
plan de financement du PPDEA à travers l'augmentation du taux de prise en charge des dépenses de
fonctionnement sur la contrepartie nationale à partir de la troisième année d'exécution, une partie de
cette contrepartie devant être financée par PROMEXA. Bien entendu, la réalité est qu'une telle vision
d'un développement aussi rapide de la capacité financière d'une association comme PROMEXA
regroupant de petits opérateurs dispersés aux quatre coins du pays et que rien n'oblige à être
ensemble, et des organisations sectorielles embryonnaires, n'est qu'illusoire. Les investigations menées
ici et ailleurs ont montré que l'atteinte d'une capacité de pérennisation financière (pour couvrir les
charges de fonctionnement de la base administrative) des organisations professionnelles ne peut et ne
doit s'envisager que dans une perspective de très long terme de 15 à 20 ans. Une telle échéance ne
peut être réduite que si l'organisation en question bénéficie d'un monopole sur des services qu'elle est
la seule à fournir à ses membres, comme c'était le cas de la SONACO pour les planteurs de
COFRUITEL et comme c'est le cas actuellement de l'OCAB pour les exportateurs d'ananas et de
banane qui utilisent le quai fruitier et les navires affrétés par SlTROCAB.
Faute d'avoir compris cela à temps, des coopératives prometteuses comme FRUITINA ont été
sacrifiées sur l'autel de l'optimisme ambiant, prématurément lâchée alors qu'elle avait plus que besoin
d'une tutelle forte.
5.3 les incohérences dans l'attitude de la Banque Mondiale vis à vis du Projet.

Un seul exemple suffirait à illustrer ces incohérences. En octobre 2000, pour défaut de paiement de la
dette par l'Etat ivoirien, la Banque mondiale a suspendu ses décaissements en faveur de la Côte
d'Ivoire, ce qui signifie que les projets financés sur le crédit IDA n'auront plus aucune ressource
financière pour continuer d'exécuter les activités. Cela n'a pas empêché la Banque d'accepter une
prorogation de la durée d'exécution du PPDEA en juin 2001. A quelle fin et pour quels résultats
attendus? En 2003, l'Etat ivoirien honore ses échéances vis à vis de la Banque, mais cette dernière
refuse d'accorder la prorogation demandée, alors qu'un reliquat important sur le crédit (au moins 1,3
milliard CFA) est disponible.

5.4 Le sens élevé des responsabilités des Autorités administratives ivoiriennes

Pendant tout le temps qu'a duré l'exécution du Projet, aucune Autorité administrative n'a interféré
dans la gestion quotidienne du Projet, en dehors du transfert officiel des responsabilités de
décaissement à l'agence comptable de la dette publique depuis 1999.

Il n'y eut ni chantage, ni pression de quelque nature que ce soit sur le Chef de Projet, encore moins sur
ses collaborateurs. Bien au contraire, les Autorités ont prêté une oreille attentive à nos diverses
sollicitations dans toute la mesure de leurs possibilités.

5.5 Notre opinion sur l'équipe chargée du PPDEA auprès de la Banque mondiale

De façon générale, l'équipe de `'task managers'' ou chargés de Projet de la Banque mondiale a
constitué un support indispensable pour l'aiguillage efficace de la cellule de Coordination du PPDEA


                                                 - 40 -

dans la planification, la programmation et l'évaluation des activités. En effet, si les chargés de projets
n'avaient pas existé, les agents de la CAC/PPDEA n'auraient pratiquement pu rien faire, totalement
ignorants qu'ils étaient de toutes les procédures à appliquer. C'est pourquoi il est bon de souligner ici,
l'importance à accorder à une formation intensive de mise à niveau des Coordonnateurs et des
responsables administratifs et financiers des projets, surtout s'il est avéré que ces personnes ne sont
pas familières des procédures de la Banque mondiale. En effet, c'est la connaissance préalable des
procédures qui confère aux responsables des projets, les capacités d'anticipation nécessaires pour le
franchissement des obstacles qui se dressent sur les parcours administratifs.

Il est bon de noter qu'au démarrage de la phase d'exécution du Projet (1996-1998), il nous semble que
l'équipe de la Banque (et au-delà l'administration générale de la Banque) a minimisé ou sous-estimé
l'importance du service de passation des marchés dans la gestion des Projets, car elle n'a fait aucune
recommandation particulière pour le recrutement d'un agent spécialisé en passation des marchés,
quand on sait que l'équipe de spécialistes à la mission résidente ne comptait que deux personnes pour
suivre au moins une cinquantaine de projets en Côte d'Ivoire.




                                               - 41 -

- 42 -

