OFFICAL
DCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 2749 IVC
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Export Promotion and Diversification Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dtted                 , 1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2749 IVC
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated ge4kftulo" .2-1 , 1995, between REPUBLIC OF COTE
D'IVOIRE (the Borrower) and IN=ERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)    the Association has received a letter dated June 16, 1995, from the
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to implement
the Borrower's strategy in the agricultural export sector (hereinafter referred to as the
Program), and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of such program;
(C)    the Borrower intends to contract from the European Union a grant (the EU
grant) in an amount equivalent to $3,740,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in a grant agreement (the EU Grant Agreement) to be entered into
by the Borrower and the European Union;
(D)    the Borrower intends to contract from  the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) a grant in an amount equivalent to $3,420,000 to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in a grant agreement (the CIDA
Grant Agreement) to be entered into by the Borrower and CIDA; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Cemditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
(a)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.


﻿-2-
(b)    The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision
of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
Charter of the United Nations.".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)    "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
(b)    "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated April
13, 1994 and June 2, 1994 between the Borrower and the Association;
(c)    "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement;
(d) "ANADER" means the Agence Nationale d'Appi au D6eloppement
Rumd of the Borrower established by Presidential decree No. 93-777, dated September 29,
1993 of the Borrower;
(e)    "CAA" means Caisse Autonme d'Amortissement a public financial
institution of the Borrower;
(f)    "MINAGRA" means the Ministre d& 'Agriculture gi dr Ressources
Animales of the Borrower;
(g)    "MEFP" means the Ministere d fEconomig, dr Einances A du Elan of
the Borrower;
(h)    "Project Implementation Manual" means the manual outlining the
procurement, disbursement and other implementation arrangements for the Project,
including product eligibility criteria, adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (d)
of this Agreement;


﻿-3-
(i)    "NAEPDF" means the National Agricultural Export Promotion and
Diversification Fund established pursuant to the Borrower's decree No. 94-216, dated April
20, 1994;
(j)    "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit referred to in Section 3.04 (b)
of this Agreement; and
(k)    "PSC" means the Project Steering Committee referred to in Section
3.04 (c) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE H
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to three million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 3,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
CFA franc a special deposit account in CAA on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)    Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay
the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by


﻿-4-
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as
of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set
from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06
of this Agreement.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purpos0s of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall repay
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1 and
December 1 commencing December 1, 2005 and ending June 1, 2035. Each installment to
and including the installment payable on June 1, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
(b)    Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five
consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid.
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include,
in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts ef such installments, the payment of
interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit


﻿-5-
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-
mentioned repayment modification.
(c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project under the overall supervision of MINAGRA with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and agricultural practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)    open and thereafter maintain an account in CFAF (the Project Account) in
CAA on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)    deposit into the Project Account an initial amount of CFAF 100,000,000
(the Initial Deposit); thereafter, not later than March 31 of each year prior to completion of
the implementation of the Project, deposit an amount sufficient to cover annual
expenditures of the Project as provided for in the annual work program referred to in
Section 3.04 (d) of this Agreement; and
(c)    ensure that amounts deposited in the Project Account shall be used only to
make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services for the Project.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)    apply the policies, procedures and arrangements specified in the Project
Implementation Manual and, except as otherwise agreed upon with the Association, shall
not amend the Project Implementation Manual so as to materially and adversely affect the
implementation of the Project;
(b)    establish and thereafter maintain a Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
headed by a Project coordinator and with staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications
and professional experience acceptable to the Association;
(c)    establish and thereafter maintain the PSC with oversight functions and
responsibility acceptable to the Association and including a representative of MINAGRA, a
representative of MEFP, two representatives of the professional associations of agricultural
producers/exporters and the Project coordinator referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section;
(d)    ensure that the PSC meets at least twice per year to review and approve the
Project annual work programs and related budgets and interim project implementation
progress reports; and
(e)    prepare draft annual work programs and related budgets and submit them
to the Association not later than September 30 of each year for its review and approval.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall by December 31, 1997: (a) carry out the study
referred to under Part D.2 of the Project; (b) submit the results and recommendations of
said study to the Association for its review and comments; and (c) promptly implement the
recommendations of the study as have been agreed upon with the Association.
Section 3.06. (a) By June 30, 1998, the Borrower shall carry out jointly with the
Association a comprehensive midterm review to assess the progress achieved in the
execution of the Project. The midterm review shall include:
(i)    the extent to which the Project objectives are being met;
(ii)  the use of Project performance indicators;
(iii)  difficulties encountered in the execution of the Project and any remedial
actions to be undertaken to overcome them;


﻿-7-
(iv)   an assessment of the impact achieved by the Project so far and the
sustainability of its achievements;
(v)    the performance of technical advisory services provided under the Project
and the efficiency achieved in the transfer of know-how; and
(vi)   disbursement performance under the Credit and the timely availability of
counterpart funding.
(b)    The Borrower shall submit to the Association, at least 45 days prior to the
midterm review a report, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association, describing the
status of the items listed in paragraph (a) of this Section and of the overall implementation
of the Project.
(c)    Based on the results of the midterm review, the Borrower shall promptly
prepare an action plan, acceptable to the Association, to further implement the Project and
shall carry out the said action plan.
Section 3.07. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)    prepare and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
(b)    afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)    thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments
thereon.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)     have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information concerning
said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)     maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine such records;
and


﻿-9-
(iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in parag-aph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the following
additional events are specified, namely that:
(a)    (i)      Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant made to the Borrower for the financing of
the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing thereof.
(ii)     Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination is not caused by
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
(b)    A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(c)    The Grant Agreements referred to in the Preamble of this Agreement shall
have failed to become effective by December 31, 1996, or such later date as the
Association may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds
for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)    the Initial Deposit referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement has
been made;
(b)    the Borrower has employed the independent auditors referred to in Section
4.01 (b) of this Agreement, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association;
(c)    the PCU and the PSC have been established in accordance with the
provisions of Section 3.04 (b) and (c) of this Agreement; and
(d)    the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual referred to
in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement, under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the
General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy,
Finance and Plan
B.P. V 125
Abidjan
Republic of C6te d'Ivoire
Cable address:              Telex:
MINFIN                     23747 MINFIN
Abidjan
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:              Telex:
INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 12-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
By                               W4
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit                % of
Allocated           Expenditures
(Expressed in            to be
Cate,gQ                  SDR Equivalent)          Financed
(1)    Vehicles, equipment and      460,000         100% of foreign and
materials                                    80% of local expenditures
(2)    Consultants' services and    820,000         100%
training
(3)    Agricultural export promotion  610,000       100% of foreign expenditures
services                                     and 60% of local expenditures
(4)    Adaptive research services   160,000         100% of foreign expenditures
and 80% of local expenditures
(5)    Operating costs             1,040,000        80% through December 31, 1998
and 40% thereafter
(6)    Refunding of Project         260,000         Amounts due pursuant to
Preparation Advance                          Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement
(7)    Unallocated                  350,000
TOTAL                       3.700QQQ


﻿-14-
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of
any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided,
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another coutry from the
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such
goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures";
(c)    the term "agricultural export promotion services" means expenditures
incurred to provide advisory services to selected agricultural producers/exporters and to
defray the cost associated with preparing products advertisement, market research and
attendance of commercial fairs and business meetings/workshops;
(d)    the term "adaptive research services" means expenditures incurred for the
acquisition of inputs and services required to carry out the activities referred to under Part
C of the Project; and
(e)    the term "operating costs" means icremental recurrent expenditures
incurred for the implementation of the Project for contractual staff salaries and travel
allowances, office rent, office supplies and communications, office equipment maintenance
and repair, fiiel and vehicles insurance, maintenance and repair.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.     The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods and
employment of consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent and for expenditures
under contracts for employment of individual consultants not exceeding $50,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to support the Borrower's efforts to expand its
agricultural output; and (b) to secure external markets for the export of its agricultural
output especially for new high value-added speculations.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as
the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A: Promotion of Agricultural Exports and Diversification of AgriculuralOutput
1.     Development of an appropriate methodology to assess external demand for new
agricultural products such as desiccated coconut, flowers, ornamental plants, essential oils,
fruits, vegetables, cashew and cola nuts and implementation of the said methodology to
identify potential markets for such products outside the territory of the Borrower.
2.     (a) Identification of external markets for the products referred to in paragraph 1
above; (b) gathering of relevant information as to how producers/exporters from the
Borrower's territory can have access to, and compete successfully, in those markets; and (c)
dissemination of the said information to producers/exporters interested in competing in
those markets through the establishment of a market information system designed to collect
regularly and timely all relevant market information such as demand variations, price
levels, trends in customers tastes/preferences, with a view to disseminating the same in a
timely manner among all interested domestic producers/exporters.
3.     Promotion of Ivorian products on external markets through the provision of
essential services needed by the producers/exporters of the said products to gain effective
access to external markets. Such services include, inter alia, adequate assistance to prepare
products advertisement packages, attendance at relevant commercial events such as
products launching tours, commercial fairs and selected business meetings/fora.
4.     Strengthening of domestic producers/exporters' capacity to establish and maintain
adequate business relationships with their counterparts operating in the relevant markets
abroad through the provision of technical advisory services.
5.     Formulation of technical norms pertaining to the creation and use of brand names,
trademarks, logos and specific labelling of products produced in the territory of the
Borrower to identify their quality and promote their competitiveness on international
markets.


﻿-16-
Part] Promoting Increased Access to Banking and Financial Services
1.     Strengthening the capacity of interested domestic producers/exporters to gather
together pertinent information needed to prepare credit applications responsive to the
guidelines of the banking institutions which are contemplating an extension of domestic
credit to promising ventures, inter alia, in the agri-business sector.
2.     Carrying out a training program  in basic accounting and bookkeeping for
producers/exporters.
Part.C; Adaptive Research and Extension Services
1.     Carrying out of adaptive research activities aimed at finding the most efficient
means to upgrade and maintain the quality of products being promoted under the Project.
2.     Increasing of ANADER's capacity to provide adequate specialized extension
services to small farmers in the field of horticulture through the provision of technical
advisory services.
Pat D: Strengthening the Performance of the Professional Associations of Agricultural
Producers/Exprters
1.     Provision of technical advisory services as needed: (a) to assist selected existing
associations of agricultural producers/exporters to improve their performance, and (b) to
promote the establishment of new specialized associations based on the specificity of their
products, their trade or their output.
2.     Carrying out of a study to assess the need to establish an interprofessional
association of agricultural producers/exporters and, if warranted, to determine the
modalities for the establishment of an association which would operate independently.
at.E: Upgrading of Export Handling and Storage Facilities
1.     Rehabilitation of the fruit wharf at the Port of Abidjan.
2.     Construction of storage facilities for fresh products at the Airport of Abidjan.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.


﻿-17-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Sedion.I.     Procurement of Goods
PartLA: .G.enem
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 1 of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
PartB: International Competitive Bidding
1.     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.     To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more each.
EWLC: Other Prurement Procedures
1.     National Competitive Bidding
Vehicles estimated to cost $80,000 equivalent or less per contract, and $240,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, and office equipment estimated to cost $50,000
equivalent or less per contract, and $330,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.3 and
3.4 of the Guidelines.
2. National Shpping
Miscellaneous equipment estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or less per contract,
and $100,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured on the basis of national
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines.
3.     Contracts for stall renting and occupancy in trade fairs abroad costing the
equivalent of $170,000 or less in the aggregate, may, with prior approval of the


﻿- 18 -
Association, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the
Guidelines.
Pga.D: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify bidding to bid for contracts,
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 of
the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and in accordance with
the provisions of said paragraph.
2.     Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraph 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
3.     Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
SectioI:      Employment of Conusultants
1.     Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms
acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of the
Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply
to: (a) contracts to the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Association review shall


﻿-19-
not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms; (c) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (d) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000
equivalent or above.


﻿-20-
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)    the term  "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$350,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$180,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR
1,600,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b)    (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify; and


﻿-21-
(ii)    Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of
the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit
of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)    if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.


﻿-22 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6. (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible orjustified. Unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


