                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR00001256



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-71250)



                                    ON AN

                        ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 5 MILLION

                                      TO

                          SAINT KITTS AND NEVIS

                                   FOR AN

                OECS EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM



                               December 29, 2009




Human Development and Social Protection Management Unit
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective November 17, 2009)

               Currency Unit = East Caribbean Dollar
                         1.00 = US$ 0.37
               US$ 1.00 = 2.68 East Caribbean Dollar

                           FISCAL YEAR
                          April 1 ­ March 31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL       Adaptable Program Loan
Bank      World Bank
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CXC       Caribbean Examination Council
DfID      Department for International Development UK
ECA       Extra-Curricular Activity
EMIS      Education Management Information System
NER       Net Enrolment Rates
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
ICT       Information and Communication Technologies
IDA       International Development Association
ISR       Implementation Status and Results Report
LRC       Learning Resource Center
MOE       Ministry of Education
MOF       Ministry of Finance
NPV       Net Present Value
OECS      Organization of Eastern States
OEDP      OECS Education Development Program
OERU      OECS Education Reform Unit
PAC       Project Advisory Committee
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PDO       Project Development Objectives
PMU       Project Management Unit
Project   St. Kitts and Nevis OECS Education Development Program
PSR       Project Status Report
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
QAE       Quality at Entry Assessment

                                   i
SIP   School Improvement Project
TAS   Teacher Appraisal System



                Vice President: Pamela Cox
             Country Director: Yvonne M. Tsikata
               Sector Manager: Chingboon Lee
          Project Team Leader: Harriet Nannyonjo
             ICR Team Leader: Harriet Nannyonjo




                              ii
                                                     COUNTRY
                                                    Project Name




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 20
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 24
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 24
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 27
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 27
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 37
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 38
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 40
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 41
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 42
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 50
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 51
  MAP




                                                             iii
A. Basic Information
                                                                           ST. KITTS & NEVIS
                                                                           EDUCATION
Country:                St. Kitts and Nevis      Project Name:
                                                                           DEVELOPMENT
                                                                           PROJECT
Project ID:             P075978                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-71250
ICR Date:               12/30/2009               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     APL                      Borrower:                 ST. KITTS & NEVIS
Original Total
                        USD 5.0M                 Disbursed Amount:         USD 4.8M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 4.8M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Education
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date                Process           Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/20/2000      Effectiveness:             12/19/2002       12/19/2002
Appraisal:            04/02/2002      Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/13/2002      Mid-term Review:           10/10/2005       10/17/2005
                                      Closing:                   09/30/2008       06/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Substantial
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:      Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     16                   12
Primary education                                                                            2
Secondary education                                                   64                   70
Tertiary education                                                    20                   16


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                     17                   33
Education for the knowledge economy                                   33                   33
Participation and civic engagement                                    33                   33
Social analysis and monitoring                                        17                    1

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                           David de Ferranti
Country Director:          Yvonne M. Tsikata                    Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:            Chingboon Lee                        William Experton
Project Team Leader:       Harriet Nannyonjo                    Cynthia Hobbs
ICR Team Leader:           Harriet Nannyonjo
ICR Primary Author:        Nazumi Takeda


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The overall program objective is to build human capital in the OECS which, in turn, will
contribute to the diversification of their economy and more sustainable growth. This
objective will be achieved by: (i) increasing access to secondary education; (ii)


                                               ii
improving the quality of the teaching and learning process, with more direct interventions
at the school level and a focus on student-centered learning, and (iii) strengthening
management of the sector and governance of schools.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target    Formally       Actual Value
                                             Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval         Target        Completion or
                                             documents)         Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Net enrollment rate in secondary education
Value
quantitative or 90%                       96%                                98%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2001                  12/31/2006                         06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Proportion of students passing at least 5 CXC, including
Indicator 2 :
                English and Math
Value
quantitative or 26%                       36%                                18%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                  12/31/2006                         06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Gross Completion Rate for Form 5
Value
quantitative or 70%                       85%                                85%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2001                  12/31/2006                         06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Proportion of non-salary recurrent expenditure out of total recurrent expenditure
Value
quantitative or 5%                        9%                                 5%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                  12/31/2006                         06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Pupil-teacher ratio


                                               iii
Value
quantitative or 12.6:1                    15:1                               9.7:1
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                  12/31/2006                         06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                            Formally
                                           Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value                           Revised
                                             approval                          Completion or
                                                          Target Values
                                           documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :   One new school constructed
Value
(quantitative   0                          1                                 1
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/19/2002                   12/31/2004                        06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Learning Resource Center established or upgraded
                                           7 Learning                        7 Learning
Value
                                           Resource Centers                  Resource Centers
(quantitative   0
                                           established and in                established and in
or Qualitative)
                                           operation                         operation
Date achieved 12/19/2002                   09/30/2008                        06/30/2009
Comments
                6 Centers rehabilitated, equipped and furnished; 1 Center equipped and
(incl. %
                furnished.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Librarians and IT Technicians trained
Value
                                           8 librarians and 8                8 librarians and 8
(quantitative   0
                                           IT Technicians                    IT technicians
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/19/2002                   09/30/2008                        06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Teachers trained in special education
Value                                      40 teachers trained
                                                                             50 teachers trained
(quantitative   0                          in special
                                                                             in special education
or Qualitative)                            education
Date achieved 12/19/2002                   12/31/2006                        12/31/2007
Comments
                1 received MA in Reading Recovery; 20 teachers received training in Reading
(incl. %
                Recovery; 30 teachers received training in dyslexia
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Cafeteria constructed or rehabilitated


                                                 iv
                                                                                 3 cafeterias
Value                                         6 Cafeteria
                                                                                 constructed and
(quantitative   0                             constructed or
                                                                                 rehabilitated, and in
or Qualitative)                               rehabilitated
                                                                                 use
Date achieved     12/19/2002                  09/30/2008                         11/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %          Scope was reduced due to cost overrun on civil works.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Curriculum enhanced
Value                                         Enhanced                           Enhanced curricula
(quantitative     Old curriculum in use       curricula in place                 in use for most
or Qualitative)                               and in use                         subject areas
Date achieved     12/19/2002                  12/31/2004                         06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                              IP             Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     10/04/2002             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     01/27/2003             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.05
  3     07/30/2003             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.33
  4     12/05/2003             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.37
  5     06/03/2004             Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                     0.43
  6     12/07/2004             Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                     0.43
  7     04/24/2005             Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               0.92
  8     12/22/2005             Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               1.32
  9     08/18/2006             Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               1.41
 10     05/12/2007             Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               2.06
 11     12/17/2007             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      2.31
 12     06/27/2008             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      3.05
 13     12/21/2008             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      3.75
 14     05/31/2009             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      4.66


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                   v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

St. Kitts and Nevis and other island states of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean
States (OECS) have been emphasizing economic diversification and human capital
development as a means of coping with economic and social vulnerability, and promoting
sustainable growth. As a key element to achieve these goals, Governments put education
reform at the center of their development strategy. OECS education strategies
emphasized the need to produce an internationally competitive labor force through
equitable and effective education systems, particularly at the secondary and tertiary
levels.

At the time of appraisal, the OECS had been facing considerable educational challenges.
First, access to secondary education was highly unequal based on income level. While
St. Kitts and Nevis had virtually realized universal secondary education, the children
from the low-income areas had to travel long distances to reach school, which was
sometimes overcrowded and ill-equipped. Second, quality of secondary education was
poor as evidenced by very low student achievement levels on CXC exams.1 In St. Kitts
and Nevis, only 26 percent passed five subject exams including English and Math in
2000. The major factors contributing to low achievement included: (i) imbalanced and
irrelevant curricula that did not meet society's needs and interests of the students, with
obsolete subject matter and no clearly defined core curriculum leading some students to
take up to 16 subjects; (ii) low teacher qualifications, lack of pedagogical skills, and poor
mastery of subject matter, leading to ineffective teaching/learning processes; (iii)
insufficient and low quality instructional materials and educational equipment to support
student-centered learning approaches; (iv) lack of continuous student assessment and
effective supervision mechanisms; and (v) a school environment that discouraged
involvement of the whole school community. Finally, management of the sector and
governance of schools was weak. There was no quality information system to support
effective supervision and decision-making at the central and school levels. The school-
level governance was also weak and parent involvement was limited. Furthermore,
capacity of the sector in budget management and planning was low.

The OECS Education Development Program (OEDP) was proposed as an APL to
provide phased support to the long-term education plans in the OECS countries. The
overall objective of the Program was to build human capital in the sub-region, which in
turn would contribute to the diversification of their economies and more sustainable
growth. The objectives were to be achieved by: increasing access to secondary education;
improving quality of the teaching and learning process with more direct interventions at
the school level and a focus on student-centered learning; and strengthening management
of the education sector and governance of schools.
1
  The CXC (Caribbean Examination Council) provides the exams to the students in English-speaking
countries at the end of the secondary education cycle.



                                                  1
The Program was launched as a joint initiative involving the World Bank, the United
Kingdom's Department for International Development (DfID), and the Governments of
OECS countries.2

The program was consistent with the OECS Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
FY02-06 (2001). The CAS confirmed the priorities of the regional education reform
strategy and favored a sub-regional approach to encourage cost effectiveness and sub-
regional integration while meeting the particular needs of each country. The proposed
program was designed as a "horizontal" APL, in which the instrument would apply
sequentially across countries in the sub-region to allow countries to join the program
when they were ready (see Table 1).3

                                 Table 1. OEDP `Horizontal' APL
       APL          Original Closing Date                               Borrower
       APL 1       September 30, 2008             St. Lucia, St. Kitts and Nevis
       APL 2       June 30, 2009                  Grenada
       APL 3       December 30, 2009              Dominica, St.Vincent and the Grenadines

St. Kitts and Nevis was one of two countries that joined the first phase of the OEDP. The
education strategy of St. Kitts and Nevis had been formalized in its Long Term Education
Plan ("Learning and Growing", 1998) covering 1998-2013. The OEDP in St. Kitts and
Nevis (the Project)4 aimed at providing support mainly to secondary education objectives
defined in this sector plan.5

The Bank had a standing commitment to provide financial and technical assistance to the
Caribbean region and an ongoing relationship with the Ministries of Education. A
collaborative approach had yielded increased cooperation between the Bank and the
countries, and among countries. The Bank had participated in the Caribbean Education
Task Force that drafted a regional sector strategy ("Caribbean Education Strategy 2020",
2000).




2
    The St. Kitts and Nevis OEDP, however, was not directly supported by DfID.

3
 The criteria for participation in the program included the adoption by their Government of a long-term
Education Development Plan.

4
    IBRD-7125-SC; Approval Date: June 13, 2002; Report No: 24159-LAC.

5
  These objectives were: (a) enhancing school access in rural areas; (b) improving the teaching and learning
process, particularly in the delivery of the science and technology curriculum; (c) enhancing the learning
environment of the school through improved guidance and counseling services and more extra-curricular
activities, physical education and sports and; (d) increasing the interaction between school and the world of
work.



                                                     2
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The objectives of the Project were to: (i) increase equitable access to Secondary
Education; (ii) improve quality and efficiency of Secondary Education; and (iii)
strengthen the institutional capacity of the education sector.6 As listed in the PAD, the
Project's objectives were to be measured by the following key performance indicators
and numeric targets:

                   Table 2. PDO Indicators and Targets for St. Kitts and Nevis
                        Indicator                                           Year
                                                       2000/01 (baseline)          2006/07
 Increase equitable access to secondary education
  Net enrollment rate at the secondary level                90%                     96%
 Improve the quality of secondary education
  Gross completion rate in Form 5                           70%                     85%
  Proportion of students passing at least 5 CXC subjects 26% (in 2000)              36%
 (including Math and English)
 Improve management of education in public and private schools
  Proportion of non-salary recurrent expenditure out of  5% (in 2000)               9%
 total recurrent expenditure
 Pupil-teacher ratio                                         12.6                    15
 Improve equity
 Increase of average proportion of Form 5 students             -                   15-20%
 passing at least 5 CXC exams in each of the 7
 catchment areas of the new Saddlers school

There was a list of output indicators under each of the Project's components. These are
elaborated in Annex 2: Outputs by Component.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

There were no formal revisions to the Project's Development Objective and key
performance indicators during implementation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The access component of the Project was designed to benefit the secondary school
students, particularly from disadvantaged and rural areas. By constructing one new
secondary school in the poor rural community, and thus reducing the travel time for the
approximately 350 students and decongesting existing neighboring schools, the project
expected to improve access and quality of learning environment for these students.
The new school also expected to increase community participation and students' self-
confidence.


6
    Loan Agreement (7125-SC), 2002.



                                               3
In addition, less able learners at both the primary and secondary levels were targeted with
specially designed support programs. Finally, the Project was designed to benefit all the
secondary school students in both urban and rural areas by supporting secondary
curriculum reform, teacher training, teacher appraisal, learning facilities, cafeterias, and
extracurricular activities. These were all expected to improve quality of education and
student learning outcomes, which in turn would enhance their opportunities for the future.

The Project's secondary beneficiaries included secondary and primary school teachers,
who were expected to benefit from various teacher support activities including trainings
and the establishment of teacher appraisal system. Training activities were also designed
to target principals, heads of department of secondary schools, and MOE staff.

1.5 Original Components

Component 1: Increasing Equitable Access to Secondary Education (US$3.04
million). This component was designed to: (i) increase proximity to school and decongest
overcrowded existing schools in disadvantaged communities; and (ii) increase the
likelihood that students would stay on the schools' compound, and decrease malnutrition
among youth. In order to accomplish this, the Project was to support:
    · Construction of a new secondary school in St. Kitts and provision of equipment,
        furniture and materials;
    · Introduction of cafeterias in secondary schools in St. Kitts.

Component 2: Improving the Quality of Teaching and Learning (US$2.88million).
This component aimed at improving the learning environment through:
   · Development of curriculum for Forms I-III and provision of instructional guides,
       textbooks and other resource materials; training of trainers/educators in selected
       areas, including fellowships and development of a coordinated Teacher appraisal
       system;
   · Establishment of Learning Resource Centers (LRCs) and expansion and
       upgrading of selected learning spaces, including science and IT labs, in 7 schools
       in St. Kitts and Nevis;
   · Elaboration of Program to support participation of disadvantaged students, and
       related teacher development in special education;
   · Organization and provision of school-based improvement projects (SIPs) and
       extra-curricular activities (ECAs).

Component 3: Improved Governance and Management in the Education System
(US$0.30million). This component aimed at upgrading the planning, management and
information processing capabilities in the education system through:
    · Expansion of the education management information system (EMIS), including
       networking of schools and EMIS training.

Component 4: Project Management (US$0.65million). This component was designed
to establish an efficient Project Management Unit (PMU) through:



                                             4
   ·   Provision of technical assistance, training and purchase of the necessary
       equipment for the strengthening of the PMU.

1.6 Revised Components

None of the components were revised over the course of project implementation,
although some modifications were made to the scope of activities as detailed in Annex 2.

1.7 Other significant changes

The closing date of the Project was extended by 9 months from September 30, 2008, to
June 30, 2009, in order to complete the project activities including the construction of the
new school and the provision of equipment and furniture to school facilities.

In addition, the Loan agreement was amended twice over the course of the Project mainly
to (i) reallocate the funds to support the construction of a new secondary school due to
cost overrun on civil works, and (ii) increase the Bank share of financing for Categories 1
and 2 to 100 percent in view of the worldwide financial crisis.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The Project design was in line with the CAS as well as the national education
strategy that reflected wide participation of local stakeholders. As explained in
Section 1.1, the CAS for the OECS for the FY02-06 period prioritized economic
diversification and human capacity building and emphasized the need for quality
secondary education. The Project was also designed in line with the Government's long-
term education plan covering 1998-2013. This plan was developed through consultations
with a broad range of stakeholders including principals and key staff from primary
schools, secondary schools, College and private schools, as well as representatives from
the teachers' union, teachers, parents and students. The Project drew upon the
recommendations of the plan with a particular focus on secondary education.

There was strong participation and ownership of the Government and local experts
in project preparation process. The overall framework for the OEDP was defined
during the identification mission, where the country team including Government officials,
high school principals, and a representative from a local college discussed the national
education plan and identified priority issues. After the framework was established, sub-
committees were set up for each project component to elaborate the project activities and
costs. These groups consisted of the MOE staff, teachers, principals, private sector
representatives, and the local experts such as a librarian and an architect for the LRCs and
the civil works component respectively. This arrangement proved to be very valuable and
efficient during project preparation.

Lessons Learned from other projects were taken into account. The team looked at the



                                             5
performance of prior OECS projects, as well as the realities of the region, to select
appropriate instruments and community participation. It also reviewed other education
projects in Latin America for appropriate activities. For example, the School
Improvement Project initiatives were carefully reviewed and adopted to the OEDP as
they had proved to be highly effective across Latin America. SIPs have become very
successful under the OEDP in both St. Kitts and Nevis and St. Lucia.

The need for the construction of a new secondary school was determined taking into
account a series of background studies. The studies included a poverty assessment,
school planning study, analysis of space utilization in neighboring high schools, and
analysis of projected enrollments and social issues. The poverty assessment examined the
correlations between the students' educational attainment and the geographical areas,
which provided a strong justification for the construction of a new school in Saddlers.

Project budget and implementation schedule were tight. The total budget of the
Project was reduced from US$9 million to US$7 million at the appraisal stage. Although
corresponding adjustments were made to the scope of activities, the Project budget
became extremely tight. This was exacerbated by an increase of the construction cost
(see Section 2.2) and has caused significant cost overrun, and therefore a further
reduction of the scope of some activities. The implementation schedule was also highly
ambitious. Most of the activities experienced delays including construction of the new
school; the school was planned to be fully operational by 2004, but it opened in
September 2009.

2.2 Implementation

Effective implementation arrangements and strong championship of the MOE. In
addition to the Project Management Unit (PMU), the Project Advisory Committee (PAC)
was established to provide guidance and coordinate the implementation of the Project.
This arrangement was deemed effective due to the following factors: (i) the PAC was
chaired by the Permanent Secretary of the MOE, who also assumed responsibility as the
overall project coordinator in PMU; this strong leadership smoothed the process; (ii) the
PAC included the Chief Education Officer, representatives from the Ministry of Finance
(MOF), and other line ministries such as the Public Works Department, HR Management
Department, and the MOE-Nevis (by invitation), which facilitated collaboration within
the Government; and (iii) the PAC also included the heads of the sub-committees,
responsible for administering each component. Ongoing participation of the members
who took part in the preparation maintained the continuity during the implementation
stage. They shared information about the different aspects of the project through monthly
PAC meetings.

Project management and PMU staffing. Weak implementation capacity of the PMU
became a critical issue during the first half of the Project, particularly in the areas of
project management and procurement as described in Section 5.2 (b). This caused lengthy
delays in project implementation and disbursements, and triggered frustrations among
stakeholders. The implementation improved as the project management structure was
changed by expanding the responsibility of the Permanent Secretary, the PAC, and the


                                            6
heads of the sub-committees in project management, as well as hiring new personnel to
assist with procurement and civil works oversight. .

Collaboration with the Bank team. The Government and the Bank collaborated well
overall. However, some actions from the Bank, in particular relating to disbursement and
procurement, were not always well explained as described in Section 5.1 (b). This led to
frustration on the part of Government counterparts and also caused delays in making loan
payments.

Centralized decision making system. The decision making mechanism of the
Government was centralized and often required Cabinet approval. Although strong
leadership of the MOE redressed the situation, overall the decision making process was
relatively slow during project implementation.

Participatory approach. The MOE ensured a participatory approach in the
implementation of project activities to increase stakeholder ownership. The curriculum
development involved teachers from all schools and SIPs were also developed with the
participation of teachers, students, Parent Teacher Associations (PTAs), and other
members of the wider community. Consultations with the stakeholders also led to
successful implementation as in the case of teacher appraisal, which improved on its
acceptability. At the same time, the balance between consultations and technical expertise
posed a challenge for the civil works component. While the end-users' views were well
incorporated into the design of spaces such as cafeterias and LRCs, the layouts varied in
quality among schools.

Sub-regional Approach. The OEDP adopted a horizontal APL to promote a sub-
regional approach for knowledge sharing and economies of scale in hiring of consultants
and resolution of common problems across the OECS. This brought some benefits and
challenges. On the positive side, it promoted knowledge sharing among OECS countries
through sub-regional workshops, training and knowledge exchange in technical and
procurement issues. However, on the challenge side, the flexibility to incorporate
countries' own priorities and conditions, and the nature of the individual loan agreements,
generated difficulties in coordination. Thus, fewer economies of scale were possible in
deploying technical assistance and in procuring common goods including the EMIS.
Furthermore, a common set of PDOs and indicators for the OEDP helped to monitor the
regional trend, but were not entirely relevant to the project objectives and activities in St.
Kitts and Nevis.7

The Education Knowledge Management Network, an information sharing service that the
Bank developed to support the OEDP and passed to the OECS Education Reform Unit
(OERU), was also not sustainable without adequate staffing.




7
    The issue of the PDO indicators is discussed in detail in Section 2.3 and 3.2.




                                                        7
Although a knowledge management coordinator was initially hired by OERU and set up
a website and advisory service modeled after the Bank's Education Advisory Service, no
replacement was made after she left the position.

External Factors

Financial crisis. The global financial crisis in 2008 affected St. Kitts and Nevis and led
to budget cuts, including for the education sector. Although the project had not
experienced problems with receipt of counterpart funds until early 2009, the Government
requested the Bank to increase its share of financing to 100% in response to the budget
cuts. The global recession also affected project implementation. It caused some delays in
the supply of classroom and office furniture for Saddlers Secondary School. The supplier
became unable to meet its financial obligations under the Project in a timely manner. The
furniture was finally shipped after the project completion and arrived in St. Kitts in
October 2009.

Unexpected increase in the cost of building materials and labor. The civil works
under the Project were affected by a significant increase in the cost of materials and
labor. The total budget originally envisioned for the new school nearly doubled (US$2.4
million versus US$4.5 million). As a result, the scope of construction of the new school
in Saddlers, the number of cafeterias, and the rehabilitation work at Sandy Point and
Cayon High Schools were reduced. Nevertheless, there was substantial cost overrun, and
the Government provided counterpart funds to fill the financial gap. The change of scope
in civil works also required the revision of designs and Bill of Quantities (BoQs) and thus
caused delays or prolonged the construction periods of all rehabilitation projects.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design. Government's capacity for data collection and analysis was found to be limited
before the Project started. The Project provided support to expand an EMIS to strengthen
the data collection mechanism, while relying on the data provided by the Government. It
should be noted, however, that there was less Government buy-in for the outcome
indicators as discussed below, while the Project's overall objectives, design, and
activities were founded on strong ownership of the Government and other stakeholders.
There were also issues regarding the adequacy of baseline data and selection of
indicators:

Baseline data. Although the outcome indicator selected to measure the access objective
was to increase secondary education enrolment from 90 percent in 2001 to 96 percent in
2008, the focus group discussions indicate that secondary education was already virtually
universal (approximately 98 percent) by the time the project started. It is possible that
different criteria or data collection protocol were being used to monitor changes, and this
made it difficult to measure the achievement. This also has an implication for the
selection of indicators as discussed below.

Selection of indicators. For the access objective, the appropriateness of the use of NER
cannot be determined due to the above mentioned reason.


                                            8
If secondary education was virtually universal at the time of Project inception, the NER
would have been irrelevant. If not, the NER could be used as one of the indicators with
more analysis on the out-of-school youth or dropouts in order to show a clear linkage
between the project interventions and the increase of NER. Nevertheless, it is clear that
the Project aimed at increasing proximity to school and decongesting existing schools in
the rural communities to ensure equal access to quality education. While the equity
indicator (Increase of average proportion of Form 5 students passing at least 5 CXC
exams in each of the 7 catchment areas of the new Saddlers school) was included to
capture this aspect, indicators to measure these intermediate objectives of increasing
proximity and decongesting schools could have been included aside from the NER.

For the quality objective, the use of Gross completion rate for Form 5 was also not
sufficient. In St. Kitts and Nevis, some students leave secondary school after Form 4 in
order to pursue their study in other educational institutions such as Advanced Vocational
Education Centre (AVEC). This is distinct from the drop-outs and should have been
taken into account. In addition, it would have been helpful if there had been an alternative
indicator to the results of the CXC exams (proportion of students passing at least 5 CXC
exams including Math and English) to measure the outcome of project activities. Quality
enhancement is a long-term proposition, and it takes at least five years for the students
who study only under the new lower secondary curriculum to sit for the CXC. In
addition, it is difficult to link the project interventions and the CXC results, given a
number of initiatives carried out under the quality objective. To mitigate this
disconnection and better capture the project impacts, the results framework could have
entailed appropriate intermediate indicators to measure interim changes. The Quality at
Entry Assessment (QEA) also pointed out the need for a considerable amount of
qualitative assessment and evaluation to draw lessons on project effectiveness
particularly on the quality aspect.

For the management objective, the outcome indicators were not clearly linked to output
indicators. The Project aimed at strengthening the Government capacity for relevant and
timely data collection through the expansion of EMIS. However, the outcome indicators
(proportion of non-salary recurrent cost, pupil-teacher ratio) were not directly linked to
the improved data collection capacity, but were designed to measure efficiency of the
education system. Although an ultimate goal of expanding EMIS was to improve
efficiency of the education system through effective and data-driven budget planning and
management, it was not clear how the improved data collection would lead to the
improvement of these outcome indicators.

Implementation and Utilization. The PDO/performance indicators were mostly tracked
when the Bank missions were conducted. However, the ICR team had difficulties in
acquiring accurate data for some indicators mainly because the population projections
were not updated regularly. Nevertheless, there has been an improvement in the
information collection processes under the Project.

More systematic utilization of the data is expected, as the Government's education sector
plan includes the key sector indicators linked to the budget.



                                             9
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards. An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) was carried out for the new
school site in Saddlers prior to negotiations. The EIA was in compliance with the Bank
guidelines. The Latin America and the Caribbean Region's Environmental Guidelines for
Education Projects (see Section 5.1(a)) were included in the tender documents for
architectural and engineering services for new school construction and have guided the
MOE in establishing standards for rehabilitation designs.

Construction of the new school also triggered the resettlement safeguard, since the school
site had been occupied by two large farming plots. The Ministry of Education and
Agriculture agreed and relocated the Farmers to appropriate sites that are equally
accessible and comparable to these plots.

Fiduciary compliance. The overall performance of financial management was
satisfactory. Audits were conducted appropriately, and mostly in a timely manner.
Financial monitoring reports were of good quality although they were often submitted
late due to difficulties in obtaining bank statements.

Procurement. Procurement under the project was initially weak, leading to significant
delays from the very beginning of the Project as detailed in Section 5.2 (b). The project
experienced difficulties in conducting bidding procedures and in maintaining
procurement files. The situation improved as the PMU staffing was restructured in 2005,
and procurement was conducted in accordance with Bank guidelines.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Primary and secondary education continue to be major priority areas within the
Government program and therefore the Medium Term Budget Framework. Major reform
areas supported by the Project such as reading recovery, learning support to
disadvantaged students, teacher appraisal, LRCs, use of ICT, and SIPs are addressed in
the White Paper on Education Development and Policy 2009 - 20198, and have been
included in the budget estimates with specific indicators and targets. Some key indicators
including enrolment and CXC results will continue to be monitored more systematically
with the information management system developed under the Project.
Several follow-up actions are particularly important to sustain the reform efforts. The
MOE plans to pursue a more systematic approach to maintenance of school buildings and
computer facilities. A maintenance policy has been prepared, and the White Paper
articulates that the custodial and maintenance manual will be developed and implemented
in all schools and colleges by 2012. While this has been highlighted in the budget policy

8
  White Paper on Education Development and Policy 2009-2019 was published in March 2009. It provides
guidance for the activities of the Ministry of Education. The paper was finalized based on feedback from
local stakeholders, and regional and international agencies, in response to the Green Paper that had been
published in November 2007.


                                                   10
statement as well, provision of sufficient funds to maintain all the infrastructure and
equipment poses a challenge. Construction of additional classrooms in Saddlers
secondary school is also planned to make up for the reduction of the scope of the Project
and accommodate all Forms 1-5 in the next couple of years. Government is also
cognizant of the need to continuously provide training for teachers and principals to
sustain the teacher appraisal practice.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Highly relevant

The Project was well designed and addressed the key issues in the sector at the time, and
continues to be highly relevant to the country's development plan today. The Project
objectives and design were based on the long-term sector plan through 2013 and are
consistent with the recently published White Paper on Education Development and
Policy 2009-2019, which has adopted a number of activities initiated under the Project as
described in Section 2.5. The country's National ICT Strategic Plan in 2006 also
emphasized the need for effective EMIS as well as further promotion of ICT in teaching
and learning.

The Project also fits well with the latest CAS of 2005, which affirms the Bank's
continued support to education sector reform in the OECS countries with particular
reference to curriculum, teacher training, and equitable access to secondary education.
The sub-regional approach of the project was also consistent with the CAS, which
supports regional integration and coordination efforts. The CAS progress report in 2008
also supported a horizontal APL approach of the Project,9 although it recognizes the
challenges of developing a common sub-regional strategy for countries at varying
development stages and reaping anticipated economies of scale.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Overall rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Designed as a regional program and horizontal APL, the OEDP adapted a common set of
PDOs and key sector indicators with minor adjustments to each project, in order to track
progress across the OEDP participating countries.
As mentioned in Section 2.2 and 2.3, however, the ICR team considers that this reduced
the relevance of the PDOs and key indicators for the project activities.

Therefore, the ICR team took into account the de facto project objectives drawn from the
key associated outcomes articulated both in the PAD and during discussions with the
Government to assess the Project's achievements. In that regard, the major objective of
construction of the new school was decongesting the existing schools to improve the

9
  "OECS countries remain committed to a sub-regional approach to Bank-funded interventions, wherever
possible, although Governments have stressed the need to move as and when ready for new projects rather
than wait for all the sub-region's members to be on board." (CAS Progress Report 2008, p.1).


                                                  11
   quality of education in rural communities, rather than increasing the enrolment. The ICR
   thus adapted this as a key indicator to assess the achievement for this objective.

   Based on the de facto project objectives, the ICR team assessed the overall achievement
   of the Project Development Objective rated as moderately satisfactory. Overall, the
   Project made significant progress in the equity and quality aspects of education,
   particularly in improving the learning environment. The management aspect shows
   relatively slow improvement, while some important steps have been taken to achieve the
   objective.

   The Table 3 shows the PDO achievement per original indicators, while the assessments
   based on de facto PDOs and indicators are described for each objective below

                           Table 3. PDO Achievement Per Original Indicators
              Indicator                                       Year
                                             2000/01          2006/07      2008              Issues
                                            (baseline)        (Target)   (Results)
Increase equitable access to secondary education
Net enrollment rate at the secondary       90%                 96%         98%        Inconsistency in data
level                                                                                    collection and
                                                                                          methodology
Improve the quality of secondary education
 Gross completion rate in Form 5          70%                  85%        85%*         Some students leave
                                                                                      school after Form 4 to
                                                                                           pursue other
                                                                                     educational opportunity
Proportion of students passing at least   26% (in 2000)        36%         18%        Difficulty in assessing
5 CXC subjects (including Math and                                                   the causal link between
                                                                                        the results and the
English)
                                                                                       project interventions
Improve management of education in public and private schools
 Proportion of non-salary recurrent 5% (in 2000)         9%                5%*        Not directly linked to
expenditure out of total recurrent                                                    the Project activities
expenditure (at secondary level)
Pupil-teacher ratio                     12.6             15                 9.7       Not directly linked to
                                                                                      the Project activities
Improve equity
Increase of average proportion of               -             15-20%       NA        The new school opened
Form 5 students passing at least 5                                                          in 2009
CXC exams in each of the 7
catchment areas of the new Saddlers
school
   * Italic = estimate

   Objective 1: Increase equitable access to secondary education ­ Satisfactory

   As explained in Section 2.3, the ICR team was unable to assess the achievement of this
   objective by the increase of NER. In addition, the CXC results in the catchment areas of
   the new school (equity indicator) are not yet available as the school accepted the first
   Form 1 students in September 2009. Thus, the ICR rating for this objective is based on
   the following key associated outcome targets articulated in the project documents:


                                                         12
(i) improved learning environment for students in the poor rural communities by
constructing a new secondary school; and (ii) increased number of students benefiting
from the school meals and retained in the schools by constructing school cafeterias.

The first target of improved learning environment was mostly achieved. Although
systematic assessments have not been done, it has been observed that the construction of
a high quality new school in Saddlers Village (Saddlers Secondary School) has resulted
in positive impacts on the learning environment in rural communities by: (a)
decongesting overcrowded existing secondary schools; (b) increasing proximity to
school; (c) enhancing community participation in school activities; and (d) increasing
students' self-esteem.

The number of Form 1 students in Cayon and Sandy Point High Schools was reduced
from 140 to 85 (39 percent) and 150 to 130 (13 percent) respectively, as 70 Form 1
students enrolled in the new school in 2009. These schools will be further decongested
over the next several years as more new students enter the new school and eventually fill
Form 1 to 5.10 It was reported that this has improved service delivery with more
innovations and child-center approaches in the classrooms, and the schools no longer
have an issue of space.

A focus group discussion with students in Saddlers indicated that the construction of a
new secondary school has also reduced their travel distances, and therefore, they do not
have to leave home too early in the morning.11 The students expressed to the ICR team
their appreciation for the overall school environment including advanced information
technology facilities and the school personnel. Another focus group discussion with
school community and that with the MOE indicated that the school has energized the
community and parents to actively participate in the education of their children with
increased confidence and pride. The increased participation of the communities and high
motivation of students will likely have a positive impact on their learning outcomes.

The second target of retention benefits from school meals was partially achieved. The
number of cafeterias was reduced from six to three due to cost overrun, which has
lessened the impact. All three cafeterias are in operation and offering more nutritious and
cheaper meal options. A focus group discussion with students indicated that these
cafeterias are also helping them to stay on the school compound during lunch time.




10
   Saddlers Secondary School currently has the capacity to accommodate about 250 students, falling short
of the original target (350) due to the reduction of scope. Additional classrooms are planned to be built to
accommodate Form 3-5 in the next two years, and a total of 400 students will be accommodated in the
school after completion.

11
   As described in the PAD, children had to be on the road from about 7am to catch the school buses and
arrive at school before 7:30am, although school does not begin until 8:30am. They had to wait for the start
of school and there was also much opportunity for them to engage in mischief while they waited.



                                                     13
This was echoed during the discussion with teachers and principals, and they mentioned
that this has positively impacted on students' attendance in the afternoon sessions. The
school cafeterias have also created competition with food vendors around the schools,
which keeps the prices low for the benefit of students. However, cafeteria operators have
not been able to make sufficient profits and therefore cannot yet offer free meals to low
income students as originally planned. Meanwhile, the Government continues to provide
subsidized meals to about 180 low-income students in secondary schools.

Based on the magnitude of positive impact on the rural communities and on the students,
as well as the reduced output due to financial constraints, the achievement of this
objective is rated satisfactory.

Objective 2: Improve the quality of secondary education ­ Moderately Satisfactory

The objective of improving quality of teaching and learning was measured by (i) Gross
completion rate for Form 5 and (ii) the proportion of students passing at least 5 CXC
subjects, including mathematics and English. In 2009, the Gross completion rate is
estimated at approximately 85 percent, meeting the target.12 In contrast, the proportion of
students passing at least 5 CXC subjects including Mathematics and English decreased
from 26 percent in 2000 to 18 percent in 2009, half of the target of 36 percent.13 It should
be noted, however, that the proportion of students sitting for CXC exams has been
increasing over the years, from 62.5% in 2005 to 85.1% in 2009. Average overall pass
rate has also shown slight increase from around 77.1% in 2005 to 79.85% in 2009. This
indicates that the total number of students passing CXC exams has been increasing. This
may be due in part to Government efforts to encourage students to sit for CXC, at least
for one subject, in order to increase the number of students who complete to the CXC
level.

Nevertheless, it is difficult to determine the impact of the Project activities on these CXC
results and their changes as mentioned in Section 2.3.
Thus, the ICR ratings for this objective takes into account the observed impacts on
students' academic skills, as well as the progress in some key areas related to quality,
particularly the ones that had been identified as major factors contributing to low
academic achievement (see Section 1.1).

Academic skills: The Project helped to improve reading skills of students particularly
with learning difficulties by establishing or expanding learning support programs at both
primary and secondary levels. The reading recovery program, for instance, significantly

12
   As mentioned in Section 2.3, the Gross completion rates should be considered in the context that some
students leave after Form 4 by choice in order to pursue their education in other institution.

13
   Out of 684 students registered for the CXC in May/June 2009, 207 (30%) took 5 or more CXC exams
including Math and English A, and 123 (18%) passed them. These numbers: (i) include students of all
Forms as some students take CXC earlier than Form 5, and (ii) include students who took English A not
English B, which is considered easier and taken by a limited number of students..



                                                   14
improved the reading skills of primary students with reading problems. Between 2006
and 2009, 112 out of 204 Grade 1 students who entered the program at minimum level
(level 0 or 1) successfully finished the program within a year or two as they reached the
level 14-21, equivalent to the level of Grade 2 and above (see Table 4). These students
have been keeping up with the classes after the intervention, and some perform above
other students who had no identified problems. Teachers also reported the positive impact
of the program not just in reading and writing, but also in reading comprehension and
other subject areas.

                        Table 4. Reading Recovery Program 2006-2009
                 No. pupils who     No. pupils who           No.        No. referred
 No. pupils     left the program   left the program      transferred     to Special         No.
  entered         at level 14-20   below level 14-21         out            Ed.          continuing
     204              112                 43*                15               7              27
*18 pupils had to discontinue the program since their assigned teachers left the program for different
reasons.

In addition to Grade 1 students, the reading recovery teachers have been providing
support in reading in all grades by sharing their skills with other teachers. While there is
no hard data on the impact of these specific interventions, the available information
indicates that the number of students reading at respective class levels increased from
70% in 2007 to 85% in 2008. Teachers observed that new entrants to secondary
education in 2008 had less reading problems and more students are returning to the
mainstream.

The learning support program, which is based on the Fuzzbuzz reading scheme, was
adopted in all high schools and positively impacted on reading skills of the students with
learning difficulties. Teachers reported that the students seemed more interested in
reading and enjoyed the program materials. The positive impact was also observed for the
students in the dyslexia program; the teachers' report for 2008-2009 noted great
improvement in their reading skills.

In addition to these learning support programs for disadvantaged students, anecdotal
evidence indicates that some SIPs were successful in positively impacting on student
academic performance. In the case where a language lab was financed, for example,
students, teachers and the school principal indicated that this has led to improved student
performance in foreign languages.

Student-centered Learning environment: The Project helped to enhance the learning
environment through (i) establishing and equipping LRCs and labs, and (ii) supporting
various School Improvement Projects. A focus group discussion with teachers and
principals indicated that the computers in the LRCs and IT labs are extensively utilized
by students to do research and other assignments. They also mentioned that science and
home economics labs facilitated more student-centered learning. In addition, some SIPs,
including educational field trips and the enhancement of homework and learning support
centers, allowed more innovation and creativity in teaching, and helped students to work
on the school-based assessment's (SBAs) and other class assignments. They also


                                                 15
expanded the students' learning opportunities in areas such as art, sewing, and
agriculture.

School principals and teachers also mentioned in the discussion the positive impacts of
SIPs and ECAs as helping students to become more responsible and enthusiastic about
school. It was noted that the focus of these activities on the involvement of students in
the project design facilitated a bottom-up approach. A number of clubs have been
initiated under SIPs and ECAs, which fostered the engagement of students in sports and
other school activities, particularly boys. A signal of the SIP' success is the strong
demands from both the schools and the Government to continue these types of activities.

Teaching quality: The Project also gave a positive impact on teacher performance by
developing teacher appraisal instruments and putting an appraisal system in place. The
focus group discussion with teachers indicated that this has helped teachers to identify
their strengths and weaknesses, and provided an effective tool for in-service training.
Preliminary results of survey show that this appraisal process has improved competence
of teachers in areas such as classroom learning environment, lesson planning and
preparation, instructional engagement and professional responsibilities.14 While the
instrument was found useful for trained and untrained, and experienced and
inexperienced teachers, principals mentioned that more frequent appraisal had been
helping particularly those who are inexperienced and without formal training.

Relevance: The Project contributed to enhancing relevance of learning, making it more
responsive to society's needs. First of all, IT was incorporated into the delivery of the
curriculum. The newly developed curriculum for the lower secondary level emphasized
use of IT in various subject areas. In addition, the new curriculum incorporated inputs
from the business community who were part of the curriculum advisory committee,
taking into account the required skills for the work place.

Overall, the Project made notable contribution to initiating a process of reforms to
achieve the quality objectives.
Notable progress was made on reading skills of disadvantaged students, student-centered
learning environment, teacher performance, and relevance. Therefore, the achievement
of this objective is rated moderately satisfactory.

Objective 3: Improved Governance and Management in the Education System ­
Moderately Unsatisfactory

This objective was measured by (i) Proportion of non-salary recurrent expenditure out of
total recurrent expenditure on secondary education and (ii) pupil-teacher ratio in
secondary schools. Both indicators show little progress over the project period. The


14
  A survey on teachers' perceptions of the teacher appraisal process and its effect on professional growth
was administered in 2008 to appraised teachers, both trained and untrained, with varying years of teaching
experience in 13 government primary schools in St. Kitts (Snyder, n.d.).



                                                    16
proportion of non-salary recurrent cost remains approximately 5 percent in 2009, falling
short of the target of 9 percent. The pupil-teacher ratio went from 12.6:1 in 2000 to 9.7:1
in 2008, further away from the target of 15:1.15 As mentioned in Section 2.3, however, it
is important to note that these indicators were not directly linked to the Project's
interventions. Therefore, the ICR rating takes into account progress made on the key
associated outcomes; namely, data collection capacity and utilization for better policy
making.

Some steps were taken under the Project to strengthen data collection capacity, although
the procurement of EMIS software was dropped due to high maintenance costs. One
major outcome of the Project is the mainstreaming of the electronic tools in data
collection. Availability of data was improved by establishing e-mail and internet
connection for all schools, and designing school websites and simple instruments for data
collection. Basic school data such as student enrolment and teacher employment is being
collected from schools on a timely basis, improving from a lag of over two years in 2003
to less than a year in 2008. The statistical digest was published for the school year
2007/2008, which contained key education data at all levels such as enrolment, CXC
results, and number of trained teachers.

While data collection capacity has been enhanced, there has not been a systematic
utilization of data. The use of EMIS data for school management is still limited. It should
be noted, however, that the data is expected to be utilized more systematically, as the
MOE has included key sector targets in its budget to help monitoring progress of sector
activities on a regular basis.

Based on the progress made on the data collection, but with a major shortfall in
utilization of data and implementation of planned activities, the achievement of this
objective is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

An analysis of this section is based on the methodology established during the appraisal.
An economic analysis was conducted during the preparation of the Project and included
in the PAD.

The premise of the economic analysis was that the increased number of secondary
graduates through decreased drop-outs and the substantial quality gains as a result of the
Project would lead to higher earnings. The analysis calculated the cost-benefit of the
Project and estimated that the Net Present Value (NPV) would be approximately



15
  However, the figure varies considerably among classes. For example, English and Math classes tend to
have larger number of students (e.g. 40 students), while others such as Foreign language or Science often
have small number of students (e.g. 5 students).



                                                   17
US$14.7 million and the rate of return at 35 percent.16 The ICR team does not have
sufficient data to judge the extent to which the original estimates of the NPV and rate of
return have been impacted by the Project. This is because of the delays in completion of
some activities, in particular construction of the new school, as well as the difficulty in
linking project interventions to the indicators used in the economic analysis.

Increased access to Form 5. According to the economic analysis, an individual with
complete secondary education would earn an additional US$16,171 during his/her
lifetime compared to someone with complete primary education. The analysis assumed
that the drop-outs in all grades decrease gradually from 2003/04 (target levels in 2006/07:
1% in Form 1 and 2; 2% in Form 3) and the access to Form 5 increases by 10 percent as a
result of the quality improvement of secondary education particularly through the
construction of a new school. During the project period, the drop-outs for Forms 1-3 were
very minimal.17 The number of Form 5 students increased by 22 percent from 550 in
2001/2002 to 670 in 2007/2008. However, this increase of enrolment cannot be attributed
to the construction of the new secondary school, as the first Form 1 students were not
enrolled in the school until September 2009.

Learning achievements. The economic analysis showed correlations between the higher
achievement in the CXC exams and higher earnings, and calculated the benefits gained
through quality enhancement. The original NPV was based on the assumptions that the
Project interventions would increase the proportion of graduate trained teachers by 20
percent and decrease the proportion of infrastructure in state of deprivation by 30 percent,
therefore leading to an increase of the passing rates of one or more CXC exams among
the population 16 years and over.
During the project period, the overall average passing rates of CXC exams remained
almost at the same level with a slight increase by 2-3 percent. However, there was
considerable increase in the number of students who sat for the exams, and therefore the
proportion of students who completed secondary with CXC. Nevertheless, the
contribution of the Project to this increase cannot be determined as explained in Section
3.2.

Project cost. Additional implementation costs were incurred for the construction and
rehabilitation of schools due to implementation delays and significant increase in cost of
building materials. The total project cost increased from 6.97 million to 7.81 million.



16
   Due to a lack of relevant data, the economic analysis for the St Kitts and Nevis OEDP used the average
incremental earnings of secondary school graduates and the secondary education premium that were
calculated for St. Lucia. This was considered plausible given the similarity between the two countries in the
structure of wages, educational inputs and quality performance of the education sector, and the relation
between CXC results and its main determinants.

17
   For example, the drop-outs in 2008/2009 were: 0 in Form 1; 6 in Form 2; 5 in Form 3 (Ministry of
Education, St Kitts and Nevis). Many students leave school after Form 4 though this should be considered
separately from the regular drop-outs.



                                                    18
The scope of work has also been reduced for the construction of a new school, cafeterias,
and some rehabilitation work such as IT and science labs. This has further undermined
the overall cost-effectiveness of the Project.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall outcome rating is Moderately Satisfactory based on the following:
   · The Project's continued relevance to the country priorities and CAS;
   · The Project's contribution to the equitable access to secondary education through
      decongesting existing schools and the substantial improvement in learning of the
      disadvantaged students through the learning support programs, but with moderate
      shortcomings in management improvement;
   · Shortcoming in Project cost-effectiveness due to the significant cost overrun.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

While the Project did not include a specific measurement of poverty impact, it was
designed to target disadvantaged students in disadvantaged rural areas under the equitable
access component. The poverty assessment report at the time of appraisal showed that the
highest percentage of persons who had not attained any form of education certification
was found in the disadvantaged rural communities, with the village of Saddlers being the
largest community. A formal impact assessment has not been conducted and it is too
early to evaluate the extent to which the Project improved the learning outcome of
students. However, constructing a high quality new secondary school in Saddlers has
shown some positive impacts on these low-income communities in that it has energized
the communities with an increased sense of pride and higher participation of parents in
school activities (explained in Section 3.2).

The Project did not have a specific emphasis on gender issues. However, some SIPs and
ECAs have given a positive impact on retention, particularly on boys, by involving them
in school activities such as sports.

The Project also incorporated a focus on disability. Accessible design was duly
incorporated in the Saddlers secondary school; this school became the only educational
institution in the country today that allows complete access to all levels of the facility by
wheel chairs. Furthermore, the Project successfully provided support to students with
learning difficulties. It increased awareness among parents and teachers on the issue of
dyslexia and established the dyslexia program in selected schools, which improved the
reading skills of students with dyslexia.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The data collection capacity in the education sector has been strengthened under the
Project as detailed in Section 3.2. This is expected to improve monitoring and evaluation


                                              19
at central and school levels, upon further enhancement of data processing capacity. In
addition, school autonomy and school management capacity were enhanced through
carrying out SIPs. Finally, the teacher appraisal system introduced under the Project also
enabled more systematic and continuous support to teachers.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

The assessment of risk to development outcome is rated as substantial, based on the
assessment as summarized in the box below. The ICR team placed more weight on the
financial risk given the magnitude of its impact on project sustainability. Mitigation
measures are also discussed below.

    Factor        Risk                                      Note
Financial          S      The global financial crisis since 2008 has had a negative impact on the
Sustainability            country and Government budget as evidenced in the reduction of the
                          Government's financing share for the Project. The education budget for
                          FY2010 was cut by about 5 percent. Despite the Government's strong
                          financial commitment to the education sector, limited fiscal space could
                          pose a risk to maintaining the Project's achievements. Some activities
                          such as SIPs may not be continued in spite of their effectiveness in
                          school management and strong demand from principals, students, and
                          teachers. Maintenance costs for school facilities and equipment pose
                          another challenge.

                          At the same time, the outcomes related to other aspects such as the
                          teacher appraisal and teacher training will be less affected by the
                          financial crisis, as these do not have significant financial implications.
                          A high risk of financial crisis would also be mitigated by strong
                          Government commitment to education reform and stakeholder support.
Government's       M      Government has consistently shown a high level of commitment to
Political                 education reform under the strong leadership of the MOE. The MOE's
Commitment                recently published White Paper reiterates the commitment to the long-
                          term education sector plan which includes initiatives supported by the
                          Project. The maintenance policy has been prepared but not yet ratified
                          although it is a high priority.
Regional           M      The education reform in St. Kitts and Nevis has been carried out in
Initiative                conjunction with OECS educational initiatives and the potential change
                          of the initiatives can affect the direction of reforms in the country. In
                          particular, the CXC has a strong influence over the curriculum in each
                          OECS country, and thus the curriculum reforms carried out under this
                          Project may be modified depending on the CXC policy in the future.



                                             20
                         However, St. Kitts and Nevis has been successful in incorporating the
                         regional initiatives into the national secondary curriculum. The MOE has
                         been working closely with teachers in curriculum development and
                         implementation, and this would ensure smooth adjustment to any
                         changes at the regional level and mitigate the risk of jeopardizing the
                         quality of education.
Natural           M      St Kitts and Nevis is vulnerable to natural disasters including frequent
Disasters                hurricanes. While newly constructed or rehabilitated buildings were built
                         hurricane proof, damages can be caused to school facilities.
Stakeholder        L     The Education Sector Plan that the Project supported and the White
Support                  Paper were developed with wide participation from civil society
                         including principals, teachers, parents and students; there is a sufficient
                         consensus for the need for education reform.
H=High, S=Substantial, M=Moderate, L=Low

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

A Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA) was conducted for this Project in 2002 after
appraisal. The overall rating for the Bank's quality at entry and the ratings for the key
aspects were all satisfactory. The assessment report highlighted the high level of
Government ownership and the strong task team with continuity. The ICR team confirms
these strengths, while observing some shortcomings as outlined below.

Project design was highly relevant to the needs of the country and the sub-region. During
the identification and preparation phase, the Bank extensively worked with the OECS
countries to define the project objectives, design, and actions. The team facilitated
collaboration and discussions among the OECS countries on key issues of secondary
education through missions and sub-regional seminars, with involvement of a wide array
of Bank staff with relevant experience and skill mix. As part of efforts to enhance the
project preparation process, the team also established the Education Knowledge
Management Network for knowledge sharing on project design and technical assistance
resources.

While ensuring country's ownership, the Bank provided adequate inputs. The Bank team
reviewed lessons from other projects, discussed them with the country, and incorporated
them into the Project design (see Section 2.1). The team also effectively worked with the
Bank's regional environmental Quality Assurance Team and developed a framework
("Guidelines for Addressing Environmental and Social Safeguard Issues in World Bank
Education Projects in the Latin America and the Caribbean Region") that became a
resource for the whole Region.

At the same time, design of the monitoring and evaluation framework could have been
improved for the reasons that are fully explained in Section 2.3.



                                              21
Based on the high strategic relevance, overall good collaboration with the Government in
identification and preparation of the Project, adequate Bank inputs, but with the
significant shortcoming in the design of the results framework, the Bank performance at
entry is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

Overall, the Bank task team worked effectively with the Government during the
implementation. Bank missions closely monitored implementation progress at various
stages. The supervision documents were overall well organized and provided detailed
information on implementation progress. The task team responded well to the identified
risks. Intensive technical support and training were provided to the PMU to enhance and
sustain its capacity, and the staffing of the PMU was closely monitored.

The task team was also proactive in identifying issues. The team sometimes went beyond
the scope of the Bank-supported project; it provided feedback to the work funded by the
Caribbean Development Bank regarding architectural design of a secondary school,
which was duly incorporated. The team also facilitated cross-country learning by
conducting sub-regional workshops on architectural design of schools and EMIS, and
organizing a study tour to US school libraries and public archives in support of the LRCs.

Some actions from the Bank, in particular relating to disbursement and
procurement, were not always well explained and this led to frustration on the
part of Government counterparts. This was partly due to inadequate internal
communication within the Bank. The PMU at times received mixed messages
from different Bank officers that confused the project team and added to the
delays. However, the Bank took appropriate action to address these issues and
this facilitated implementation.

While the key performance indicators had been monitored at each supervision mission,
PSRs/ISRs did not include all the PDO indicators and thus not sufficient analysis of the
changes on these indicators. Although the monitoring and evaluation had been rated
Satisfactory in ISRs, PDO data was only updated in 2005. In addition, appropriate
intermediate indicators were not added during implementation to track progress and
ensure adequate focus on results. The indicators could have been reviewed more closely
in relation to the project activities and revised accordingly.

Based on the effective supervision and collaboration with the Government in successful
implementation of the activities, but with the issue of internal communications and focus
on development impact, quality of supervision is rated moderately satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory based on the following:


                                            22
·   Close collaboration with the Government in the identification and preparation of the
    Project, that ensured strong Government ownership and high strategic relevance;
·   Provision of adequate Bank inputs and incorporation of lessons learned into the
    Project design;
·   Effective supervision and collaboration with the Government in implementing the
    activities, proactively addressing emerging challenges; strong technical support;
·   Timely resolution of the issues of inadequate coordination of communication within
    the Bank and with the Government;
·   Shortcoming in the design of results framework, inadequate reporting of indicators;
    failure to define the intermediate indicators during implementation.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Government showed a high level of ownership and consistent commitment to
education reform and the Project. Government has remained committed to reforms in the
sector by increasing resources to both primary and secondary education, as well as
focusing on key issues in primary education, in particular the need to improve literacy.

Counterpart funds were made available in a timely manner most of the time. Government
also covered all additional construction costs arising from significant price escalation
(over 100 percent of the original price estimate), without which the construction of the
new secondary school would not have been possible. It was only during the last several
months before the Project closing when sharp economic downturn due to the global
financial crisis forced the Government to cut the budget and request an increase in the
Bank's financing share.

In general, however, the centralized decision making system often delayed
implementation process as mentioned in Section 2.2.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Ministry of Education was responsible for project implementation. The PMU and the
PAC were established to coordinate and direct the implementation under the supervision
of the Permanent Secretary of the MOE. The MOE's strong leadership throughout the
project preparation and implementation was a critical factor for the successful completion
of the project activities as explained in Section 2.2. The heads of sub-components worked
effectively and their progress reports were comprehensive and greatly facilitated the
Bank's supervision missions.

The MOE also ensured a highly participatory approach. Both the Education Sector Plan
on which the Project was based, as well as the White Paper that will guide the sector
policies in the next ten years reflect the wide consultation of local stakeholders. The



                                           23
Project activities were also implemented in a participatory manner as explained in
Section 2.2.

The aspect of Financial Management was overall well executed. It should be noted that
the FM responsibilities have always been fulfilled by civil servants, by which the
Government assured that no knowledge has been lost and the usual sustainability
concerns have been adequately addressed. Although there was staff turnover during the
Project, there was uninterrupted and satisfactory support to project implementation with
the necessary training provided.

Nevertheless, the PMU's implementation capacity was a critical issue during the first half
of the Project, which delayed the implementation of most of the components and
disbursements. Insufficient supervision of works and communication between the PMU
and the contractors caused delays in civil works and affected the quality of some of the
works. Procurement also lagged behind which caused frustration among stakeholders. In
response, the role of Permanent Secretary, the PAC, and the heads of sub-components
was expanded in order to facilitate the implementation. This change of the project
management arrangement as well as staffing restructuring of the PMU improved the
implementation and resulted in successful completion of the activities.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall Borrower's performance is rated Satisfactory. On the positive side, there
were:
·     Overall Government's commitment to the education sector and the PDOs;
·     Strong leadership of the Ministry of Education;
·     Effective implementation arrangements through PAC;
·     Highly participatory approach in the development of the sector plan as well as the
      implementation of the Project;
·     Commitment and provision of counterpart funds, including bridging the funding
      shortfall;
·     Involvement of MOF staff in the PMU;
·     Review of the staffing and implementation arrangements to facilitate the process.

On the shortcomings, the following affected the rating:
·    Initial implementation challenge due to PMU's capacity;
·    Relatively slow decision making process.

6. Lessons Learned

Results framework with a clear link between outputs and outcomes. The link
between Project's activities and the outcome indicators was not clearly addressed in the
project document. As a result, these indicators could not adequately measure the project
achievements. To maintain the focus on Project Development Objectives during the
implementation and to clearly address how different activities and components fit


                                           24
together, creating a well-defined results framework is critical. Project teams need to make
sure that the framework articulates the link between outputs and outcomes, by setting
intermediate indicators which adequately measure the interim changes toward achieving
the objectives. If the PDO indicators were found to be inadequate during the course of the
project implementation, they should be adjusted accordingly.

Consistent monitoring of indicators throughout the project. During the Project
implementation, not all the PDO indicators were included in the ISRs and the data was
not updated regularly. In addition, the data criteria seemed to be inconsistent. This has
made the project assessment difficult. It is important to monitor the changes of
PDO/intermediate indicators right from the start, in order to better assess the challenges
affecting their progress and what has attributed to the change of these indicators. It is
also recommended that definitions of indicators be articulated in the PAD, and care be
taken to use the same data collection protocol to ensure consistency.

Realistic cost estimate and scope of work. The Project experienced significant cost
overrun. This led to the reduction of scope of the activities, which caused additional
delays. Although the major factor for the cost overrun was the increase of the cost of
building materials and labor that affected the whole sub-region, the original scope of
activities was also quite ambitious given the limited funds available, particularly for the
civil works component. The activities should not be included unless their funding is
assured. The project teams should ensure that funding is assured for all the planned
activities based on a realistic cost estimate. The civil works component tends to make up
the large share of the project cost, and thus it is particularly important to keep it realistic
in scope.

Infrastructure maintenance scheme put upfront. The Project built a new school,
cafeterias, Learning Resource Centers, and IT labs. It also provided computers to expand
the use of IT in teaching and learning. The maintenance of these facilities and equipment
poses a challenge for sustaining the project outcomes. Maintenance strategy needs to be
discussed at the project preparation stage with the involvement of MOF and other key
stakeholders as it has long-term financial implications.

Continuity from preparation to implementation. The PAC was set up to guide the
whole process of the Project, from preparation to implementation. The Permanent
Secretary and the heads of sub-components from the MOE who had participated in the
preparation continued to engage in implementation. This direct engagement of
stakeholders and the continuity in project preparation and implementation facilitated the
process and enhanced ownership.
Strong engagement of stakeholders from the outset is crucial for smooth implementation.
Creating a mechanism within the Government that ensures continuous engagement would
enhance project effectiveness.

Communication within the Bank. There were some cases that the Bank's advice to the
Government varied depending on the individual officers. The mixed messages from the
Bank caused some confusion and frustration in the project team and affected



                                              25
implementation. It is important that the Bank's advice to the client is consistent
regardless of the personnel who process a client's request. Each unit and department
within the Bank should ensure good internal communication. The agreed communication
channel to the Government should be also enforced.

Balance between sub-regional approach and targeted approach. The Project adopted
a sub-regional approach under the OEDP APL to tackle common problems and to benefit
from economies of scale. This approach facilitated knowledge sharing among OECS
countries on educational issues and was particularly effective during the preparation
stage. While these countries share many of the problems and objectives, each country's
priorities toward the objectives varied significantly due to different levels of
advancement. Applying a single set of objectives to five countries has brought some
challenges in supporting their educational needs, and weakened the link between project
activities and PDO indicators. Flexibility in implementation arrangements would enhance
the project effectiveness by accommodating individual differences while benefiting from
knowledge sharing around common themes. At the same time, this needs to be reconciled
with the benefit from economies of scale by closely looking at the timing of activities that
can be implemented simultaneously. In addition, failure to replace staffing for the
EKMN led to its collapse. When setting up regional institutions or initiatives, clear
arrangements for staffing and sustainability should be agreed upfront.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners (a)
Borrower/implementing agencies
N/A

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A




                                            26
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                 Appraisal Estimate                                       Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                                           Appraisal
                                                       millions)
 EQUITABLE ACCESS                         2.72              3.6918                           136%
 QUALITY TEACHING AND
                                          2.56              3.48                             136%
LEARNING
 MANAGEMENT AND
                                          0.26              0.002                             0.7%
GOVERNANCE
 PROJECT MANAGEMENT                       0.60              0.60                             100%
            Total Baseline Cost           6.19              7.77                             126%
Physical Contingencies                    0.23              0.00                               -
Price Contingencies                       0.50              0.00                               -
             Total Project Costs          6.92              7.77                             112%
Front-end fee PPF                         0.00              0.03                               -
Front-end fee IBRD                                0.05                   0.05                100%
      Total Financing Required                    6.97                   7.85                113%19
(b) Financing
                                                         Appraisal          Actual/Latest
                                                                                          Percentage
                                               Type of   Estimate             Estimate
            Source of Funds                                                                   of
                                             Cofinancing  (USD                 (USD
                                                                                          Appraisal
                                                         millions)            millions)
Borrower                                                         1.97            3.0120           152.8%
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                                 5.00            4.8421           96.8%
and Development




18
  This amount does not include the Phase 1 (external works) of the construction of Saddlers Secondary
School that was entirely supported by the Government funds, since these works were not subjected to
Bank's procurement process (see Annex 2, 1.1).

19
  This overbalance is mainly due to the cost overrun for civil works under the first and second
components.

20
  The Government provided the additional funds to meet the financial gap due to the cost overrun for civil
works, leading to a substantial gap in the Government funds between the appraisal estimate and the actual
costs.

21
  Undisbursed amount (USD0.16million) is mostly related to the Goods category; this is because the
supplier could not deliver the school furniture before the closing date as explained in Section 2.2.



                                                    27
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1 ­ Increasing Equitable Access to Secondary Education
1.1. Construction of a secondary school

   Original Output        Original Output Indicators                  Final Output
One new Secondary         ·   350 new secondary           ·   250 new secondary school places
school constructed            school places created by        created and the new school
                              2004 and the new school         opened in September 2009. (70
                              fully operational by 2004       Form 1 students currently
                                                              enrolled.)
                                                          ·   Electronic and science
                                                              equipment delivered.
                                                          ·   Furniture to be delivered (Oct,
                                                              2009).

Due to the cost escalation of civil works, the scope of the Bank support for this sub-
component was reduced. The construction of Saddlers Secondary School was carried out
in two phases: Phase 1 (site preparation and exterior works) was undertaken entirely with
Government funds, while Phase 2 (the construction of the actual building) was funded
jointly by the Government and the Bank. Construction was completed in June 2009. It
followed international design guidelines and space standards. The school opened to
students in September and 70 Form 1 students entered from the four feeder primary
schools. This has led to the reduction of Form 1 students from 140 to 85 and 150 to 130
at Cayon and Sandy Point High Schools respectively. Saddler's information technology
facilities are much more advanced than in other schools in St. Kitts and Nevis. This
school is also starting off with clear learning goals for students and emphasis on
providing equal learning opportunities to all students that it enrolls. These goals focus on
communication skills, problem solving, socialization, vocational and personal
development.

On the down side, the number of classrooms was reduced from 14 to 9 due to the cost
overrun. As a result of this reduction, the school can only accommodate 250 students.
Government plans to construct an additional 9 classrooms, over the next two years, to
make up for this reduced scope.

1.2. Construction and rehabilitation of cafeterias in high schools

   Original Output        Original Output Indicators                  Final Output
Cafeterias constructed    ·   Six (6) cafeterias fully    ·   Three (3) cafeterias fully
or rehabilitated in six       operational by 2004             operational in 2008.
secondary schools
                                                          ·   Basic equipment and furniture
                          ·   180 students receiving          provided.
                              subsidized meals by 2004
                                                          ·   180 students receiving
                                                              subsidized meals


                                               28
This sub-component aimed at constructing school cafeterias to provide students with a
well-balanced meal at least once a day and to encourage students not to leave the school
compound during the lunch hour, since some did not return for afternoon classes. The
cafeterias were constructed in three schools (St. Theresa's Convert School, Basseterre
High School, and Sandy Point High School). The scope of this sub-component was
reduced from six to three schools due to project cost overrun. Entrepreneurs were
contracted to operate the cafeterias in Sandy Point and Basseterre, and these cafeterias
have been running since October and November, 2008 respectively. Convent, a private
school, is running its own cafeteria. Government plans to give back to the schools about
40 percent of the funds collected from renting out the cafeteria, for use to cover school
improvement.

The support to the low-income students was to be provided for through: (i) the agreement
with the contractors (the meals to be provided for these students at discount rate once
contractors start making profit); and (ii) the School Meals Program, which provides
subsidized meals to about 180 students. The contractors are not yet making any profit,
and therefore cannot start supporting free meals for some disadvantaged students as
envisaged in the agreements. The Government has been providing subsidized meals to
about 180 low-income students in secondary schools, and promotion of a nutritious daily
lunch for students remains one of the priority areas articulated in the budget.

Component 2 ­ Improving the Quality of Teaching and Learning
2.1. Curriculum development, teacher training, teacher appraisal system

   Original Output         Original Output Indicators                Final Output
Curriculum improved        ·   Enhanced curricula in      ·   Revised curricula developed for
for Forms 1-3, and             place and in use by 2004       most subject areas
accompanying                                              ·   Schools received curriculum
instructional guides for                                      guidelines for the core subjects
teachers and relevant
textbooks provided                                        ·   Common end-of-year exams
                                                              developed for Communication
                                                              Studies, Math, and Integrated
                                                              Science.
                           ·   Relevant equipment         ·   Equipment and materials
                               installed and materials        purchased to support curriculum
                               purchased and in use by        and in use in most schools.
                               2003 in existing schools
                               and 2004 in new school.

Teachers trained in        ·   Fellows trained in core    ·   Fellows completed post graduate
priority subject areas         subject areas                  training: 1 each in English
                                                              (communication studies), Social
                                                              Studies, Integrated Science,
                                                              Information Technology and
                                                              Math



                                               29
                         ·   200 teachers trained in    ·   156 teachers trained in
                             Information Technology         curriculum writing and delivery
                             and other emerging areas       in various subject areas; Selected
                                                            teachers trained in integration of
                                                            technology in the curriculum

                         ·   32 teachers, principals    ·   8 persons trained as librarians (7
                             and resource people            received BA and 1 received a
                             trained in use of              Certificate in Library and
                             Resource Learning              Information studies)
                             Centers and new science
                             equipment (see #2.2)       ·   8 persons received Assoc.
                                                            Degree as IT technicians.
                                                            (see #2.2)
Teacher appraisal        ·   Teacher appraisal          ·   TAS developed and approved.
system established           system, consistent with
                             curriculum expectations,   ·   All primary school principals,
                             in place and operational       vice principals, heads of
                             by 2003                        department received training on
                                                            its use. Management teams
                                                            received training in clinical
                                                            supervision as well. Teachers
                                                            given orientation to the
                                                            instrument and its purpose.
                                                        ·   TAS being used since academic
                                                            year 2005/06
                                                        ·   Over 90% of teachers appraised

Curriculum reform: This sub-component aimed at developing common curriculum for
lower secondary, based on the OECS sub-regional agreement. The main focus was to
integrate subject areas and reduce the number of courses, and to integrate science and
technology into the delivery of the curriculum.

The activities under this sub-component entailed: (i) needs assessment, (ii) appointment
and training of the curriculum committees in each subject area, (iii) meeting with
principals and education officers on procedures and training programs, (iv) curriculum
writing workshops for teachers, (v) field visits for selected subjects, (vi) fellowships in
key subject areas, (vii) pilot of the draft curriculum in selected schools, (viii) revision of
the curriculum, (vii) training of selected teachers in integrating technology in the
curriculum, and (viii) implementation workshops for all teachers.

The MOE developed a common curriculum for Form I-III in most subjects and issued
accompanying guidelines. As a result, the number of core subjects was reduced from 14
to 10. Heads of department and teachers were trained in curriculum writing and delivery
(see Table 1). Materials were procured to support implementation of this curriculum.
The curricula were developed with a strong participation of teachers, parents and
business community who were all part of the curriculum advisory committee. They were
also written by teachers themselves.


                                             30
These newly developed curricula accommodate other curriculum reform initiatives such
as Caribbean Certificate of Secondary Level Competence (CCSLC), and are harmonized
with Caribbean Examination Council (CXC) requirements. This ensures that there is
only one common curriculum used for each subject across the federation.

                           Table 1. Status of Curriculum Development

              Subject              No. teachers trained        Status of curriculum
Communication studies                       22                         completed
Creative and Performing Arts                14               only visual arts completed
Information Technology                      16                         completed
Integrated Technology                       0                    being developed
Integrated Science                          20                         completed
Mathematics                                 21                         completed
Modern Languages                            16                         completed
Social Studies                              17                     being piloted
Personal Development                        12                         completed
Physical Education                          18                         completed

Subject Coordinators visit schools on a regular basis to observe teachers at work and hold
discussions with various subject departments. Subject associations, whose purpose is to
discuss trends and best practices in teaching/learning, have been formed for
communication studies, Mathematics, Integrated Science, and Modern Languages.
Along with the new curriculum, common end of year examinations have been put in
place to measure student achievement with respect to curriculum standards. At the same
time, the provision of textbooks poses a challenge due to their high costs. The Ministry is
exploring options for provision of these materials in a more cost effective manner.

Teacher Training: As part of the curriculum development, five fellows underwent
training leading to a Masters Degree in Education (Curriculum) in the areas of: Integrated
Science, Mathematics, Social Studies, English/Communication Studies, and Information
Technology. This training was mostly praised by fellow recipients as having enhanced
their theoretical base and confidence. The fellows used the knowledge acquired to
improve aspects of curriculum reform, and in training of teachers in the respective
subjects of the new curriculum. However, some of the fellows have been transferred,
although they continue to support the curriculum in one way or another.

Teacher Appraisal System (TAS): Before the implementation of the TAS, the
assessment of teachers had been conducted through a generic civil service assessment in
St. Kitts. However, this instrument did not adequately assess the skills required for
teachers. The TAS was developed to (i) ensure that an appropriate and effective system is
available for the evaluation of teacher, and (ii) provide a continuous assessment of
teachers. It was designed to provide constructive feedback for teachers' professional
development by identifying both their strengths and weakness, rather than being used as a


                                                31
punitive tool. It provides principals with a tool for evaluation, helps them gauge how
much teachers have absorbed and are applying from pedagogical technical supervision,
and assists them to place teachers in areas or grades that capitalize on their strengths.

Under the Project, the TAS was put in place, with manuals for clinical supervision and
teacher appraisal, and sample appraisal instruments.          This was designed with
participation from teachers, heads of departments and school principals, and taking into
account the OECS generic teacher appraisal. Workshops were conducted to inform
teachers and other key stakeholders about this appraisal system, and this improved on its
acceptability.

The teacher appraisal was introduced in the federation in 2005 and is being used in the
government primary and secondary schools. Over 90 percent of the teachers were
appraised in 2008. Overall, the appraisal is appreciated by both teachers and school
principals as being teacher friendly. In addition, the use of a common appraisal tool eases
movement of teachers across the federation. Although school principals appreciate the
staff appraisal forms, they complained that the format of the form is time consuming.
Some principals also face challenges in involving heads of department and other key
personnel. In addition, there is a need for more training of principals on its use as well as
closer follow up by the Ministry of Education to ensure that the appraisal system is being
implemented.

2.2. Learning Resource Centers, expansion and upgrading of selected learning spaces

  Original Output         Original Output Indicators                  Final Output
Learning spaces           ·   Seven (7) centers             ·   7 LRCs established and
established or                established and relevant          relevant equipment installed
upgraded, including           equipment installed and in        and in use (6 LRCs refurbished
resource learning             use by 2004 in existing           under the Project, 1 under the
centers, IT and science       schools by 2005                   CDB project)
labs, technical shops,
art and music rooms,      ·
equipment and
                              32 teachers, principals and   ·   8 persons trained as librarians
                              resource people trained in        (7 received BA and 1 received a
materials                     use of Resource Learning          Certificate in Library and
                              Centers and new science           Information studies); one of
                              equipment                         them in charge of public
                                                                library.
                                                            ·   8 persons received Assoc.
                                                                Degree as IT technicians.

                          ·   Other IT and science labs     ·   IT, science labs and home
                              upgraded and equipment            economics rooms upgraded
                              and materials installed and   ·   Equipment and materials
                              in use by 2004                    installed




                                                32
Refurbishment of LRCs at six schools (Verchilds, Washington Archibald, Sandy Point,
Basseterre, Cayon, and Gingerland High Schools) was undertaken, and furniture and
equipment were provided. Seven librarians were trained to Bachelor's degree level (5
full time, 2 by distance) and one at Certificate level by distance, allowing all government
secondary schools to have a trained librarian in a LRC. Librarian Association has been
formed to facilitate sharing of experiences and best practice on a regular basis. However,
maintenance of equipment, in particular computers, and electricity fluctuations remain a
challenge; computers are not fully utilized and internet is not connected in some schools.
In addition, not all schools have an IT technician, and maintenance capacity for some of
the equipment is completely lacking within the federation. Quality of LRCs also varies
including the size of the collection of printed materials; schools are asking for more
donations of books and other educational materials.

The IT Lab, Science lab and Home Economics Center at Gingerland and IT lab at
Verchilds were refurbished and equipped. In addition, eight IT technicians received
training leading to an Associate Degree. IT technicians have been deployed in various
Government departments, and also provide technical support to the IT labs and resource
centers. This is however not satisfactory as they do not give adequate attention to
schools. The Ministry is working out a more acceptable and sustainable arrangement.

In addition, classroom and office furniture, computers and accessories and science
equipment were procured for Charlestown Secondary School. However, the furniture
delivered was not in conformity with the specifications and the supplier agreed to replace
it at no additional cost.

2.3. Student support services for disadvantaged youth

   Original Output       Original Output Indicators                Final Output
Support services for     ·   Programs developed,        ·   Learning support program using
disadvantaged students       adequately resourced and       Fuzzbuzz reading series in place
developed, including         implemented                    in all high schools.
remedial reading and                                    ·   Reading recovery centers
math programs                                               refurbished (one each in St. Kitts
                                                            and Nevis).
                                                        ·   Reading Recovery Program
                                                            established in 17 primary
                                                            schools.
                                                        ·   Books and materials for reading
                                                            recovery and learning support
                                                            centers distributed.
                                                        ·   Learning Support Certificate
                                                            course developed.




                                            33
                        ·   Forty (40) teachers         ·   1 received MA in literacy
                            trained in special              learning and literacy difficulty
                            education and learning          with a focus on Reading
                            interventions by 2006           recovery in 2005; 1 trained in
                                                            dyslexia.
                                                        ·   20 teachers received training in
                                                            reading recovery.
                                                        ·   30 teachers received training in
                                                            dyslexia (15 at introductory
                                                            level, 15 at certificate level)
                        ·   90% of students in target   ·   100% high school students in the
                            population improve by 2         learning support program
                            levels in Reading               improved at least two levels in
                            Assessment (MICO)               Reading Assessment between
                                                            2006-2009

Several activities were undertaken under this sub-component to provide more structured
support to disadvantaged students, mainly focusing on literacy skills. However, record
keeping remains a challenge for all these programs. Mathematics Recovery was not
undertaken because there was no teacher training in this area, due to difficulties in
identifying a candidate.

Dyslexia: Activities accomplished under this component include the following: (a) One
teacher completed an on-line certificate program in Dyslexia and was awarded a
scholarship for post-graduate diploma in Education (Dyslexia). This teacher is
responsible for assessing students for dyslexia and designing interventions for these
students; (b) Fifteen teachers received in-service training in an introductory course to
dyslexia and another fifteen teachers completed a certificate course (Level 3) in Dyslexia
with the Dyslexia Institute of London. These teachers are responsible for identifying
potential dyslexic students and assisting them accordingly; (c) A policy statement on
dyslexia was developed and a dyslexia policy committee was established to provide
guidance on support to dyslexic students; (d) dyslexia screening and wide range
achievement tests were procured for use in the program; (e) Five schools (three in St.
Kitts and two in Nevis) now have a dyslexia program; (f) Dyslexia sensitization activities
were undertaken for a period of two years resulting in high levels of awareness about the
problem.

Reading Recovery Program (a reading support program for primary): One teacher
completed post graduate studies in Reading Recovery at the University of London. This
teacher is providing very valuable support and training other teachers on reading
recovery. Twenty teachers in more than 15 schools also received in-service training as
reading recovery teachers, who conducted staff development sessions in their schools.
Reading Recovery Centers were constructed and designated, one in St. Kitts and the other
in Nevis, and are being used as training centers for teachers. The Reading Recovery
program was established at 10 primary schools in St. Kitts and 7 in Nevis. A committee
comprising a literacy teacher, reading recovery teacher, dyslexia teacher, guidance
counselor, and principal have been set up at the school level to follow up on literacy


                                            34
issues. Staff development sessions also continue to focus on reading. The Ministry
continues to emphasize quality aspects and has set targets for increasing the percentage of
children entering the main stream secondary school cycle from the primary cycle.

Fuzzbuzz Readng Program (a reading support program for secondary): Workbooks
and reading texts in Fuzzbuzz Reading Series are used to improve reading abilities of
students in all high schools in the federation. The program started in January 2006 and
teachers received training on it. The MICO Diagnostic Reading Test was also procured to
assess the reading levels of the students. Stakeholders highlighted the high cost involved
in ordering additional Fuzzbuzz books, since they were from outside the region.

Teacher training for learning support: The MOE has developed a certificate course in
learning support, to assist teachers in acquiring skills, and compiling and implementing
strategies for teaching students with learning difficulties. However, the issues of delivery
and accreditation are yet to be resolved. A study tour to Canada as well as in-service
training in the design of online courses was conducted with the participation of the
Learning Support Coordinator from the Curriculum Development Unit.

2.4. School Improvement Projects and Extra-Curricular Activities

   Original Output           Original Output Indicators                Final Output
SIPs and extra-          ·     SIPs designed and             ·   57 SIPs in 10 high schools
curricular activities          operating in all secondary        carried out over the period
organized                      schools by 2003                   2004-2008.

                         ·     Extra-curricular activities   ·   21 ECAs carried out in 7 high
                               selected and run by               schools over the period 2004-
                               students by 2003                  2008.


Despite the initial challenge of limited motivation and capacity of some schools to
develop projects, the Project supported a total of 57 SIPs in 10 schools and 21 ECAs in 7
schools. These SIPs were developed in line with the School Development Plan in each
school, and with the involvement of teachers and parents. These SIPs and ECAs focused
on a range of activities: Study tour for students, language lab, agriculture, school
beautification (murals, flower boxes), music and sports. Positive impacts have been
observed as mentioned in Section 3.2., although more systematic monitoring of the SIP
activities would have provided information on the success of these initiatives. Some
schools benefitted more from this sub-component than others as they were more active in
developing the projects. While this activity is widely supported by both and the MOE and
schools, future funding for SIPs will depend on availability of funds.

Component 3 ­ Improved Governance and Management in the Education System
3.1. EMIS

   Original Output        Original Output Indicators                   Final Output



                                                35
Education Management      ·   80 MOE staff, education      ·   School principals received
Information System            officers and teachers            training on electronic
(EMIS) expanded,              trained by 2004                  communication (e.g. email,
including networking of                                        Excel spreadsheet management)
schools                   ·   EMIS established and
                              functioning by 2004          ·   EMIS software not procured.

School development        ·   School development           ·   School Development Plans
(management) plans            (management) plans               operational in all secondary
systematized and              operational in all schools       schools. (not under the Project)
community                     by 2003
participation expanded                                     ·   Policies on community
                          ·   Policies on community            participation included in the SIP
                              participation established        manual.
                              by 2003

Improved                  ·   Improved strategy            ·   A new Media Unit established
communication and             launched by 2002                 at the MOE in 2007 (not under
public awareness                                               the Project)
campaigns established


This sub-component was intended to support establishment of a network linking schools
in St. Kitts and Nevis, colleges and the MOE, acquisition and installation of one
computer per school, acquisition of software for EMIS, and provision of training for
school officials. The acquisition of EMIS software was dropped after a failed regional
attempt to procure a common EMIS software and a careful review of the recurrent cost.

Nevertheless, there was a notable progress in establishing a network among schools and
the MOE. Firstly, an e-mail communication and internet connection (broadband) were
established for all public schools. Secondly, simple instruments for data collection were
developed to assist schools. Schools are now expected to submit attendance forms every
term to facilitate monitoring of student turnout. Schools are also given questionnaires by
the MOE to provide enrolment, staffing and staff qualifications, equipment and use of
ICT in teaching. These tools significantly reduced the amount of work and improved the
data accuracy. Finally, training was carried out for school principals on the use of
electronic tools and these instruments. Schools are encouraged to communicate and
submit data online.




                                               36
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

N/A




                                    37
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
         Names                            Title                  Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Fabiola Altimari Montiel   Sr Counsel                           LEGLA Lawyer
Samia Benbouzid            Program Assistant                    LCSHD Team Assistant
Que P. Bui                 Procurement Asst.                    LCSHH Procurement
Edward Daoud               Sr Financial Management Specialist   LCSFM Financial Mgmt.
Emanuela Di Gropello       Education Economist                  LCSHE Economist
William Experton           Sector Manager                       LCC3C Sector Manager
Mourad Ezzine              Lead Education Specialist            AFTH2 Peer Reviewer
Cynthia Hobbs              Sr Education Specialist              LCSHE Task Team Leader
Maria Lucy Giraldo         Sr. Procurement Specialist           LCSPT Procurement
Vladimir T. Jadrijevic     Sr. Procurement Specialist           LCSPT Procurement
Saman Karunaratne          Finance Analyst                      CTRDM Disbursement Mgmt.
Fabienne Mroczka           Consultant                           LCOAA Financial Mgmt.
Patricia Macgowan          Sr. Procurement Specialist           LCSPT Procurement
Peter Moock                Sr. Economist                        EASHD Peer Reviewer
Judith C. Morroy           Procurement Analyst                  LCSPT Procurement
Marcelo Osorio             Consultant                           LCSHE Procurement
Rajeev Kumar Swami         Financial Management Officer         LCOAA Financial Mgmt.
Gus Brest Van Kemp         Consultant                                 Architect
Aracelly G. Woodall        Senior Program Assistant             LCSSO Costing Specialist
Supervision/ICR
Fabiola Altimari Montiel   Sr Counsel                           LEGLA   Lawyer
Hilarion Bruneau           Consultant                           CTRFC   Disbursement
Que P. Bui                 Procurement Asst.                    LCSHH   Procurement
Angela Demas               Education Spec.                      LCSHE   TTL (ag. 2006)
William Experton           Sector Manager                       LCC3C   Sector Manager
Cynthia Hobbs              Sr Education Specialist              LCSHE   TTL (Prep.-Jul 08)
Saman Karunaratne          Finance Analyst                      CTRDM   Disbursement Mgmt.
Svetlana V. Klimenko       Sr Financial Management Specialist   LCSFM   Financial Mgmt.
Lisa Lui                   Sr Counsel                           LEGOP   Lawyer
Jorge Mesa                 Consultant                           LCSHE   Architect
Snezana B. Mitrovic        Lead Procurement Specialist          LCSPT   Procurement
Judith C. Morroy           Consultant                           LCSPT   Procurement
Harriet Nannyonjo          Sr Education Specialist              LCSHE   TTL (Aug 08-)
Emmanuel N. Njomo          Consultant                           LCSFM   Financial Mgmt.
Maria Lourdes Noel         Senior Program Assistant             LCSHH   Team Assistant
Marta G. Ospina            Consultant                           LCSPT   Procurement
Rolande Simone Pryce       Country Officer                      LCC3C
Norma M. Rodriguez         Procurement Analyst                  LCSPT   Procurement



                                              38
Nazumi Takeda                E T Consultant                          LCSHE       ICR Main Author
Luis Tineo                   Sr. Procurement Specialist              LCSPT       Procurement
                                                                     AFTH1 -
Harry Toews Wiebe            Consultant                                          Architect
                                                                       HIS
Aracelly G. Woodall          Senior Program Assistant                LCSSO       Costing Specialist


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                              USD Thousands (including
                                             No. of staff weeks
         22                                                        travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                                   2                              3.33
  FY03                                                                                  0.42
                                Total:                   2                              3.75
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                                                                 0.00
  FY03                                                   8                            35.58
  FY04                                                  10                            32.00
  FY05                                                  15                            68.44
  FY06                                                  12                            64.12
  FY07                                                  11                            50.84
  FY08                                                  14                            71.88
  FY09                                                  15                             0.00
                                Total:                  85                           322.86




22
   The staff cost and time for the lending stage of the St. Kitts and Nevis OEDP are not fully available,
since the preparation of the Project was carried out for the broader OEDP APL (P070071) involving St.
Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and Dominica at the time. The total cost for the preparation of the OEDP APL
equaled about US$450,000, of which US$300,000 was covered by the Bank Budget.



                                                   39
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A




                                      40
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                                   41
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Prepared by: Mr. Osmond Petty, Permanent Secretary, Education et al, and Overall
Coordinator, OEDP, with contributions in selected sections from the following members
of the Project Advisory Committee and Project Management Unit: Mr. James Kelly, Ms.
Kerstin Petty, Ms. Ruth Thomas, Mrs. Eleanor Phillip, Mrs. Rita Cable, Mr. Quinton
Morton, Mr. Gregory Morson and Mr. Arvid Frederick.

                    IBRD/ World Bank Loan Number: 7125-SC

Loan Agreement signed: September 2002
Loan became effective: December 2002
Extension sought for nine months (from October 2008)
Project officially closed on 30 June 2009
(Final Disbursement Date: 31 October 2009)

Summary of Overall Ratings of Project

1.     Outcome:                                                         Satisfactory

2.     Risk to Development Outcome:                                Negligible to low

3.     Bank Performance:                                                Satisfactory

4.     Borrower's Performance:                                          Satisfactory

6.     Overall Borrower Performance:                                    Satisfactory

Rating of Interactions with the Bank's Project Team:              Highly Satisfactory
Rating of Interactions with the Bank's Procurement Personnel:            Satisfactory
Rating of Interactions with the Bank's Financial Management Specialists:
                                                                  Highly Satisfactory
Rating of Interactions with the Bank's Disbursement Personnel:
                                                           Moderately Unsatisfactory
Much Improvement is needed.

Throughout this ICR, Ratings are defined in accordance with the ICR Guidelines
provided by the World Bank. Ratings for the OEDP overall and for each Project
Component or Sub-Component were arrived at following discussions where necessary by
the various sub-committee members and were confirmed by consensus during the final
Project Advisory Committee (PAC) meeting which was held on 1 October 2009 when the
draft ICR was discussed.




                                         42
I. Objectives of the OECS Education Development Project (OEDP) for St. Kitts and
Nevis

The Education Sector Strategy of St. Kitts and Nevis had been formalized and elaborated
in the Ministry's Long Term Education Plan ("Learning and Growing", 1998) covering
1998-2011. In secondary education, some of the main recommendations were to: (a)
enhance school access in rural areas; (b) improve the teaching and learning process,
particularly in the delivery of the science and technology curriculum; (c) enhance the
learning environment of the school through improved guidance and counseling services,
and more extra-curricular activities, physical education and sports; and (d) increase the
interaction between school and the world of work.

The general objectives of the OECS Education Development Project (OEDP) for St. Kitts
and Nevis at Project Negotiation were therefore determined to be to:

    ·   Increase access and equity in secondary education, particularly in poor rural
        communities.*
    ·   Improve the learning environment in secondary schools through the provision of
        better facilities for teaching and learning, better trained teachers in specialist
        areas, and curricula and programs to prepare students for coping in a
        technological society.
    ·   Increase the capacity of schools to provide for the needs and interests of youths.
    ·   Upgrade the planning, management and information processing capabilities in the
        Education System.

*   The first stated objective relating to "increase access... in secondary school" was later determined to be
    somewhat misleading in that St. Kitts and Nevis already had 100% access to secondary education (universal
    secondary education). There were in fact places for all children age 12+ years. The problem was more one of
    congestion in some secondary schools, rather than direct access; there were classes with as many as 40 students.
    There was therefore need to reduce the congestion in the rural secondary schools, to provide smaller class sizes,
    thereby encouraging more child-centred teaching approaches and better catering to students with learning
    deficiencies to enable them to perform well and achieve at their highest potential (thus, ensuring more equity in
    the system).

In the pursuit of these objectives, the project sought to improve the efficiency of the
education system through better allocation and utilization of both physical and human
resources. A Teacher Appraisal System was to be developed and implemented and
teacher-training initiatives were to be closely related to project curriculum reform
initiatives, including initiatives in science and technology. Curriculum reform efforts
were also to be closely linked with other curriculum developments occurring in the
system, including the reforms associated with the National school assessment tests and
efforts to improve teachers' classroom assessment practices.

 The objectives under the OEDP were to be achieved by implementing the following
three broad project components:




                                                        43
Increasing Access and Equity

1. Construction of the new Saddlers Secondary School

2. Construction and/or rehabilitation of existing spaces as Cafeterias in six secondary
   schools

3. Elaboration of programs to support participation of disadvantaged students, including
   the training of remedial reading and math specialists

Providing Quality Teaching and Learning

1.    The establishment of Learning Resource Centres in 7 schools (2 in Nevis), to
   provide resource support for teaching and learning, including training of Librarians
   and provision of equipment and materials
2.    Expansion and upgrading of selected learning spaces
3.    The development of Curriculum for forms I-III and the provision of text books,
   instructional guides and other resource materials, training of educators in select areas,
   including fellowships and development of a coordinated Teacher Appraisal System;
   and
4.    The organization of a School-based Improvement Projects and Extra-Curricular
   Activities.

Improved Governance and Management in the Education System

1. The expansion of the Education Management Information System (EMIS), to include
   the networking of schools and EMIS training
2. Establishment and strengthening of the Project Management Unit.

A Project Management Unit (PMU) and Project Advisory Committee (PAC) were
established to coordinate and direct the implementation of the Project. The Chairman of
the PAC was Osmond Petty, Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Education. Mr.
Petty also assumed responsibility as Overall Project Coordinator.

Each component of the Project was administered by a sub-committee. The Chairpersons
of each sub-committee comprised the members of the PAC, along with the Chief
Education Officer/ Patrick Welcome, representation from the Ministry of Finance, the
Public Works Department, the Government's Human Resource Management Department,
the Nevis Island Administration/Ministry of Education- Nevis, by invitation. An
Administrative Assistant was attached to the PMU.

The Project Management Unit (PMU) consisted of a Project Manager, Mr. James Kelly,
(who eventually mainly concentrated on civil works), Procurement Officer, Project
Accountant and Accounts Clerk. The Procurement Officer's functions were performed
over the life of the Project by three persons, Mr. Glenville Edwards for the first two years
of the Project, Mr. Robert Morris, for the ensuing three years, while, for the last 18
months of the Project, Mr. Osmond Petty also functioned as Acting Procurement Officer


                                            44
after the full-time Procurement Officer (Mr. Robert Morris) left to take up employment
elsewhere.

Mr. Ernie Stapleton, Permanent Secretary, Physical Planning, Nevis Island
Administration, Dr. Bronte Gonsalves, Education Planner, Nevis, and Mr. Elwin Bailey
and (later) Mr. Joseph Wiltshire, Permanent Secretary, Education and Library Services,
Nevis, and Mrs. Jennifer Hodge, Principal Education Officer, Nevis, provided the
necessary contact linkages and facilitation of implementation of Project components in
Nevis.

The Financial Management Unit of the PMU was served by two Project Accountants.
Mr. Levi Bradshaw served for five years as Project Accountant with Ms. Kerstin Petty
as Assistant Project Accountant. Both were at the time Budget Analysts from the
Ministry of Finance. After about five years, Mr. Levi Bradshaw was promoted to
Accountant General and therefore for the last 22+ months of the Project, the roles were
changed, with approval from the Ministry of Finance and the World Bank. Therefore,
Ms. Kerstin Petty has since functioned as the Project Accountant, with Levi Bradshaw as
the Assistant Project Accountant. The Financial management Unit was completed by a
full time Accounts Clerk. During the Project Implementation period, there have been
three Accounts Clerks.

II. Implementation Summary

With the exception of the Education Management Information System (EMIS), all of the
other objectives of the OEDP (St. Kitts and Nevis) were achieved with much success.
The EMIS sub-project had to be abandoned because the funds allocated were in adequate
and the project closed before suitable alternative measures could be implemented.
However, despite the non-implementation of the EMIS as envisaged under the Project,
alternative arrangements have been made and there is a functional EMIS in place and
which continues to be developed and improved. The alternative EMIS has resulted in
considerable improvement in the timeliness and availability of data for decision making.
For example, many schools are now entering school statistics and other required
information online. There are links from the Ministry's website to schools' websites
where additional information can be readily accessed.

The construction of the Saddlers Secondary School was the last major component of the
OEDP to be completed, after some initial delays in the years following the
commencement of the project. The initial delays were mainly related to identification of a
suitable site, relocation of Farmers on site, surveying and completion of the
Environmental Impact Assessment. Mobilization for Phase 1 of the construction ­ Site
Preparation and External Works- commenced in August 2006. Phase 2 was completed in
March 2009. Most of the equipment and supplies were delivered on-site before the
Project close date (30 June 2009).
Classroom and office furniture is still to arrive and is expected by October 20, 2009.
However, the school is in operation, with classroom furniture secured temporarily from
alternative sources.



                                           45
The delay in the supply of classroom and office furniture for Saddlers Secondary
School has been due to no fault of the Project Management Unit. The contract for the
supply of furniture was awarded in February 2009 to Kwaplah International in Oregon,
U.S.A. with furniture manufactured in China. However, apparently due to the recession
in the United States, Kwaplah was unable to meet its financial obligations under the
Project in a timely manner. By the time the PMU was alerted to this fact, the Project
close date (30 June 2009) was near and there was therefore nothing that could be done
but to wait until Kwaplah was able to raise the financing to meet its commitments. The
PMU has shipping documents showing that the container left port on a ship from China
on September 1, 2009. The PMU awaits notification of arrival in Basseterre.

Due to limited available financing under the Project, only three of the five cafeterias
were built in secondary schools: Convent High School, Basseterre High School and
Sandy Point High School. No cafeteria was built at Verchilds and Cayon High Schools.
All three cafeterias are in operation, contracted to private proprietors. Students are using
the cafeteria facilities and meals, and this has reduced the number of students leaving the
school premises in search of lunch. Meal prices are quite low; the children are
benefitting from competition in prices from other restaurants outside the school
compound. The School meals service provided by Government continues to provide free
meals for students, and this will continue until the cafeterias become able to provide this
service.

Most of the activities associated with Programs for `Disadvantaged Youth' were
accomplished. Two scholarships were awarded under this component, one leading to a
Master's Degree in Reading Recovery and the other leading to a Post-Graduate Diploma
in Dyslexia. The scholarship for Mathematics Recovery was not awarded. With
consultancy assistance, a Certificate Program for training Learning Support Teachers was
developed. Discussions have been held with the University of the West Indies to
transform this program for delivery under the aegis of the UWI Open Campus. However,
financing is required to take this to the next level. Under this component, the Learning
Support Departments in secondary schools have been strengthened considerably, due to
on-going teacher training activities and use of materials provided under the Project.

All the Learning Resource Centres were constructed or refurbished, furnished and
equipped as planned. Eight persons received scholarships to pursue studies as
Librarians (7 leading to Bachelor's degrees - 5 full time and 2 by distance- and 1 leading
to a Certificate in Library Studies) and all are functioning in the system. Eight persons
received scholarships to pursue Associate Degrees as Information Technology
Technicians. Technicians who were trained under the Project provide technical
assistance to Resource Centres and other IT labs in schools. The Learning Resource
Centres are being used extensively by students and teachers in all schools.

Selected learning spaces in some schools were refurbished and equipment provided:
Computer Labs, Science Labs, Home Management Centre and Reading Recovery Rooms
in St. Kitts and Nevis.



                                            46
Curriculum Development in secondary schools activities intensified under the project
and much resource support was provided. Curriculum documents produced under the
project are in use in schools. Five fellowships were awarded to Curriculum Officers to
pursue post graduate studies in Integrated Science, English/Communication Studies,
Information Technology, Mathematics and Social Studies. There is on-going review of
curriculum and related teacher training activities. A much higher percentage of students -
85 % of Form One age cohort- is now proceeding to Form Five to take CXC-CSEC
examinations and the National pass rate continues to improve; currently stands at 80%.

With consultancy assistance under the Quality Teaching and Learning component, a
Teacher Appraisal Instrument was developed and implemented. Orientation was
provided for teachers. School principals, Education Officers and other professionals in
the Ministry of Education received orientation and training in the use of the Teacher
Appraisal Instrument. The Instrument is being used to evaluate teachers and provides
direction on areas where further professional development is required.

The School Improvement Projects (SIPs) and Extra- Curricular Activities (ECAs)
component was quite successful. This was a new feature for schools and after some
delays due to procurement difficulties, many SIPs and ECAs were undertaken by schools.
The complete list of SIPs and ECAs has been appended. About 57 SIPs and ECAs were
completed in secondary schools over the Project period. These SIPs and ECAs were quite
varied. They facilitated homework assistance for students, assisted disadvantage students
in completing School Based Assessment Assignments and generally contributed to
improved performance in local and regional examinations. The ECAs also contributed to
improved performance of some schools in National Sports championships and
tournaments.

Developments under most of these components are further elaborated at some length later
in this report.

III. Lesson Learned- Overall

When the Project was being developed, the amount of the Loan that was envisaged was
in the region of USD7.0 million. When it was learned that the Loan would only be
USD5.0 million, the mistake made was to try and retain most of the components that
were previously anticipated, with reduced amounts. The funds that were designated for
some of these components therefore became somewhat unrealistic and this was
exacerbated by rising construction labour and materials costs experienced over the life of
the Project. The result was that some project components had to be reduced and related
activities eliminated. The main lesson learned therefore is that unless the financing for a
particular project component is adequate and can be assured, it should not be included in
the project.




                                            47
               OVERALL RATINGS: Objectives, Design and Results.


Component    Appropriatenes   Intent vs.     Impact on      Activity       Other           Sustainability
             s                Achievement    the project    output ­Key    Factors ­
                              (outcome &                    Factors        Contribution
                              output)
Increase     Highly           Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Moderately     Provisions for maintenance
Access and   Satisfactory                                                  Satisfactory    of facilities;
Equity                                                                     (viz: support   Continuous provision of
                                                                           from other      remediation materials;
                                                                           Gov't           proper testing; financial
                                                                           agencies)-      support to maintain an ICT
                                                                                           platform to assist curriculum
                                                                                           delivery- student-centred
                                                                                           teaching approaches;
                                                                                           continuous training of
                                                                                           Learning Support teachers
Quality      Highly           Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Satisfactory    More scholarships for
Teaching     Satisfactory                                                  ( Function of   teachers- more training as
and                                                                        Curriculum      professionals in specialist
Learning                                                                   Advisory        areas; materials support for
                                                                           Committees)     Learning Resource Centres;
                                                                                           monitoring of Teacher
                                                                                           Appraisal System-
                                                                                           systematic training for
                                                                                           Principals
Improved     Satisfactory     Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Moderately      Moderately     PMU maintained as an
Management                    (PMU and       (PMU and       Satisfactory   Satisfactory    entity; Education
and                           PAC only)      PAC only)      (PMU and       (Link with      Department empowered-
Governance                                                  PAC only)      sub-region re   project management;
                              Not EMIS       Not EMIS                      EMIS            An alternative EMIS
                                                                           inadequate)     structure is required.




                                                48
                              OVERALL RATINGS: Implementation


Component           Major Problems                     Key Actors and Role            What should            Future Actions
                                                                                     have been done
                                                                                       differently
               Problems          Solutions           Actors             Roles


Access and   Financing;        Alternative       Chairpersons of   Coordinate        All                On-going monitoring
Equity       occasional        sources of        Committee         activities        Chairpersons/
             procurement       funding           PMU                                 members of         Determining and
             issues            sought            PAC                                 PAC should         measuring Indicators
                                                                                     have received
                                                                                     training in
                                                                                     World Bank
                                                                                     procurement
Quality      Financing;        Innovative        Chairperson of    Coordination of   Basic              Curriculum development
Teaching     Occasional        use of            Committee         Curriculum        Procurement        ­on-going activities
and          Procurement       available         Curriculum        development       Training for all
Learning     issues re         funds             Coordinators      activities        Chairpersons of    Teacher in-service
             procedures for                      CDU                                 Committees         training in selected areas
             acquiring         Engage other      PMU
             materials from    persons           PAC                                                    Personnel trained in key
             specific          besides CDU                                                              areas ­postgraduate
             sources ­ i.e.    staff to assist                                                          training- to be assigned
             from sole         with                                                                     to work in related fields
             suppliers         curriculum
                               activities;
                               Had to utilize
                               counterpart
                               funds
Improved     Financing for     Tried sub-        Chairperson of    Determine         World Bank          Local entrepreneur to be
Managemen    EMIS was          regional          Committee;        Terms of          could have been    engaged to set up EMIS;
t and        inadequate        approach with     Director EMIS     Reference;        more flexible to   already in progress
Governance                     St. Lucia - it                      Evaluate Bids;    allow local
                               failed; EMIS                        Advise on         entrepreneur to    Alternative sources of
                               was                                 maintenance       provide an         financing will have to be
                               eventually                          costs for         EMIS should        found
                               scrapped                            proposed EMIS     have been
                                                                   solutions         acquired from
                                                                                     local provider;
                                                                                     the WB was not
                                                                                     very flexible in
                                                                                     this regard




                                                      49
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    50
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Di Gropello, E. 2001. Monitoring Educational Performance in the Caribbean. World
Bank Working Paper No. 6. The World Bank: Washington, D.C.

Snyder, Valencia. "A survey of teachers' perceptions of the teacher appraisal process and
its effect on professional growth." Thesis, University of West Indies. [unpublished.]

St. Kitts and Nevis Ministry of Education. 2009. White Paper on Education Development
and Policy 2009-2019: Raising the Standard, Maximizing Resources, Aligning with Best
Practices ­ Promoting Success for All.

St. Kitts and Nevis Ministry of Education. OECS Education Development Project:
Implementation Completion Report.

World Bank. Project Appraisal Document, OECS Education Development Program.
Report No. 24159-LAC, May 2002.

World Bank. Loan Agreement. Loan No. 7125-SC. September, 2002.

World Bank. Aide-Memoires: St. Kitts and Nevis OECS Education Development Project.
2000-2009.

World Bank. Project Implementation Status Reports: St. Kitts and Nevis OECS
Education Development Project. 2002-2009.

World Bank. 2005. Country Assistance Strategy for the Organization of Eastern
Caribbean States for the period of FY06-FY09. Report No. 33118-LAC. Washington,
D.C.

World Bank. 2008. Country Assistance Strategy for the Organization of Eastern
Caribbean States Progress Report. Report No. 43478-LAC. Washington, D.C.




                                           51
52
53
