Dcument of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. 11584
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
PERU
ENEGY CONSERVATION AND RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2538-PE)
JANRY 26, 1993
b1ICROFICHE COPY
Report No.:11584 PE        Type:  (PCR)
Title: ENERGY CONSERVATIONt AND RETION.
Author: BERNEY, R.
Ext.:31710 Room:T 9102 Dept.:OEDD3
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
Energy and Industry Operatioi  Division
Country Department I
Latiu America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipiets only in the performance of
their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICI   USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washgton, D.C 20433
USA
Office of Director-General
Operatins Zvaluatien
January 26, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE 1)T-ECTORAND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Note on Peru
Energy Conservttion and RationalizatK.an
Proiect (Logan 2538-PE)
Attached is a copy of the Note entitled "Project Completion Note on
Peru - Energy Conservation and Rationalization Project (Loan 2538-PE)" prepared
by the Latin Amer4ca and the Caribbean Regional Of fice in lieu of a Project
Completion Report, as the loan, though approved by the Board in 1985, was never
signed. In July 1988, the Borrower and the Bank agreed that the operation be
withdrawn. Aunex I was contributed by the Borrower..
Here is a project where the concept and design were well developed
and the country priority and country commitment were so high that the project was
fully implemented even though Bank funding failed to materialize.
Project financing was delayed first by a new Peruvian administration,
which decided to review all of Bank landing before signing the Guarantee
Agreement, and then by the Bank, when the creditworthiness of Peru came into
question. The loan was eventually withdrawn by the request of the Borrower, and
was implemented with internally generated funds, essen-:ially because the
Government and the executing agency believed that the economic benefits from
energy saving retrofitting measures would be significant.
The new energy conservation institute, CENERGIA, is fully operational and
is expanding its client base. CEHERGIA's long term fimnacial independence, as
well as its effectiveness in promoting investments for energy saving will depend,
in the longer term, on the continuation of the Government's present policy of
increasing domestic energy prices to international parity levels. This issue
should be an important element in the Bank's policy dialogue with the Government.
Attacbment
Thfs docLmmnt has a restricted distribution and maybe used bv recipients only in the perfann of f
their otff cit duties. Its contents OY not otheriss ibe discosed wiStou W- d San authwrintien.



PCJECtc CC"PtYSlON NOTC          FOR OMCAuL USE ONLY
PRU
Elino COSERVATION AID RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
fLGAN 2538-Pg}
1.         This Note is in lieu of a Project Completion Report for the Energy
Conservation and Rationalization Project (Loan 2538-PE, US$4.0 millions 1985),
and is bsed on a desk review of project files and related documents and reports.
2.        On May 9, 1985, to support the above project, the Bank approved
Loan 2538-PU, tc Petroleos del Peru (PETROPURU), with the guarantoe of the
Republic of Peru. In 1982, the Bank had agreed to finance a study to improve
the efficiency of oil refineries (Petroleum Refinery Engineering Project, Loan
2117-PE). The present project u6ught to provide technical assistance to carry
out energy audits and to identify opportunities for energy conservation and
rationalization in other industries. In July 1985, subsequent to Loan
approval, there was a change in Administration, with the result that the new
Government decided to review all commitments of the previous Government,
thereby deferring loan signing. Because of legal and bureaucratic formalities,
it was not nntil April 2, 1986 that the Government authorized its ambassador
to the U.S.. to sign the Guarantee Agreement, by which time the
creditwor  oness of Peru had become an issue, making the Bank reluctant to
sign the Loan. The Loan was w_hdrawn at tlhe request of the Borrower in July
1988. Even without Bank financing, the Government decided to implement the
project
Prelect Concoct
3.        During the early 1980s, energy conservation and rationalization,
especially in the industrial and mining sectors, became an important element
of the national energy strategy for maintaining petroleum self-sufficiency and
exports. Together with interfuel substitution, energy conservation could yield
savings of 565,000 to 755,000 tons of oil equivalent per year 1J
4         To achieve petroleum energy savings, PETROPERU intended to
establish a Center for Energy Conservation (CENERGIA), where staff of both
public and private companies could receive appropriate training from
specialists. It was believed that staff seconded to CENERGIA, after two years
of on-the-job training as energy audit enginers working with foreign and
local experts, would return to their firms as energy managers wLth sufficLent
experience to implement and train others in energy conservation Measurs. Tho
project would thus create an adequate pool of personnel in Peru to carry on
the energy conservation work. Furthermore, by making CENERGIA an autonomous
entity, Bank staff hoped to avoid the civil service complications of dealing
with a government agency.
O See President's Report 3955-PE, page 9-10
This document has a ret*ctd distfdbutdon and may be use by redpients only in fth petfonmw
of their ofciaW dutW& Its contents MaY not otherie be disclosed without Wor1 Bank authoduion.



-2-
S.        Project preparation took about seven months. During this period,
the Bank developed excellent workinq relationships with its counterparts.
Prolect Obiectives
6.        The main objective of the project was to assiat Peru to achieve
petroleum savings. Another objective was to assist the industrial 6ector in
Peru in reducing energy costs. These objectives would be achieved by:
(a) establishing CENERGIA as an autonomous body to guide energy policy
and define priorities for energy conservation and rationalization.
Both private and public sector companies would participate in cEqERGhA;
(b) conducting energy audits and promotional training, developing
energy conservation legislation, and preparing manuals and handbooks on
energy saving measures, plus a study on incentives for energy
conservation; and,
(c) expanding petroleum exports via conservation and inter-fuel
substitution, which would have country economic benefits as well as
financial benefits for the borrower, PETROPERU.
Pro eat Descristion
7.        At appraisal, the project cost was est_nated at USS 6,072,000, ln
March 1985 prices. The Bank loan would cover foreign costs, US$ 4 million. The
project, which would be organized and implemented through CENEROZA, had three
major components: (a) hiring consultants and a technical adviser (32% of
total cost);  (b) organizing seminars and overseas training (5 5% of total
cost); and (c) purchasing equipment and instrumentation (18.6% of total
cost). The balance (43.9%) of the project costs consisted of office
maintenance, physical and price contingencies, and working capital.
8         A foreidgn consulting firm was to organize CENERGIA as an autonomous
entity to train local staff to carry out the functions of the Center. The
initial team of ten professionals to work with the consulting firm were to be
hired from PETROPERU, the Institute for Industrial Technology (ITINTEC), the
National Association of Private Enterprises, public utilities, and private
companies, through a system of secondment, on a rotational basis. Although
CENFRGIA was to perform demonstration energy audits in the first year for less
than the normal feo, thereafter it was to strive for full cost recovery.
9.        CUNERGIA was to enter into a management contract with PETROPERU to
minimize overheads and to give CENERGOA the benefit of PETROPERU's experience
in energy conservition and rationalization. a Director General was to be
appointed to serve as the main channel of communications between the CENZROZA
8oard and PETROPERU, as well as with the Government and the industrial sector.
10*       Under the management contract with CENERGIA, PETROPERU was to
establish a new Energy Conservation Department (BCD), which, under the
direction of tho Center, was tos
(L) provide training for engineers and energy coordinators in
industries and universities interested in energy rationalization projects,



-3-
monitor progress In energy conservation in Peru, and carry out publicity
campaigns;
(Ui) recommend energy-saving measures and Investment programs following
an energy audit, provide the necessary technical assistance, and facilitate
the provision of loans for such investments;
(III) prepare manuals for energy rationalization in energy-intensive
subsectors, and establish a computerized data bank on energy use; and,
(lv) procure specialized equipment for laboratory and training.
Rationale for Loan Cancellation
11.       In 1986, about a year after loan approval, the Government was
prepared to sign the Loan Agreement, but the Bank, which no longer considered
Peru creditworthy, was reluctant to sign the Loan. The Bank believed that the
1986 economic boom was unsustainable, and had fundamental reservations about
the Government's economic policy. However, the fragile Bank-Government
relations at the time made it difficult for the Bank to withdraw the Loan, and
it agreed to keep the loan open for eventual signature.
12.       In February 1987, in view of the Government's expressed interest Ln
the project, management decided to postpone the withdrawal decision until
after economic discussions with the Government concerning the Country
implementation Review. However there was concern that in light of the
President's announcement to limit service of external debt to those
institutions from which Peru received positive net transfers (Bank net
transfers had become negative in late 1986), the Government appeared prepared
to default on its World Bank debt. Although the Prime Minister, in a meneting
with the President of the Bank on April 14, 1987, avoided any direct
commitment regarding debt service, he tried to reassure the Bank of the
Government's intention to preserve good relations with the Bank and receive
the Bank's operational support and policy advice. By April 16, 1987, USS 18
million due the Bank was more than 60 days overdue. The Bank had sought to
avoid disruption of disbursements to Peru.
13.       In May 1987, Peru suspended debt service payments to the Bank,
causing the Bank to suspend disbursements on all loans to Pru. However, the
Bank took no action on this relatively small project which had been an element
in maintaining good relations with the Government. Finally, on July 5, 1988,
the Government notified the Bank of PETROPERU'  intent not to proceed with
signing of the Loan Agreement.
Conclusion
14.       Due to the prospects of energy savings, the project, even after
loan withdrawal, continued to enjoy support among high level officials in the
Government and private industry. Also the project was expected to make a
significant contribution to institutLon-building and human capital development
in the energy sector in Peru, and to serve as a model that could later be
extended to other countries.



-4-
15.       The main lessons learned from the preparation and appraisal of this
project were the importance of (L) finding support at the highesr Government
level to ensure the acceptance and success of a project; (Li) developing a
close working relationship with industry, and ensuring its participation in
the benefits of the project: (iii) charging fees for the services provided;
and, (iv) setting up a supervisory institution, not part of the government,
and, hence, able to avoid becoming submerged in the exigencies of bureaucracy.
16.       To the credit of Bank staff who helped develop the concept and
objectives of the project, the Center was established despite the fact that
Bank funds were not forthcoming. The Bank had contributed to all major aspects
of project preparation, by: (I) defining the structure and role of CUERGIA,
and helping identify suitable staff; (Li) organizing training and promotional
efforts; and (iII) developing suggestions for the appropriate regulatory
framework. Today, elght years later, CUNZfGIA is a well-established and well-
run insititution. CENZRGIA received support from UND?, which funded an
international expert at the Center. Staff seconded from public enterprises, as
forseen in the original design of the project, were to have been the only
element of subsidy (See Annex I, Petroperu's Coment on the Project).
CINERGIA has expanded Its client base; and industries remain interested in the
services it provides, especially now that energy pricing is expected to
approach international parity levels.
17.       Although Loan 2538-PB was never s.gned, clearly the project was
succezsful and achieved its objectives. Deterioiration in the economic
situation after a brief boom in 1986, and eveLtual default by Peru on its
payments to the Bank, led to loan withdrawal three years after Board approval.
although the Bank normally is reluctant to hold a loan unsigned for more than
a year after Board approval, the delicate political situation and the interest
in avoiding further strain on the already difficult relations with Peru,
perhaps justified keeping the loan open for signature for a long period after
Board approval. However, with hindsight, one may question the Bank's optimism
in keeping the loan open, after it had become evident that the Government was
unlikely to become creditworthy.



-5-
PETROLEOS DEL PERU
1 _4                                   Jun¶ 9th. 1998
Mr. Stephen Ettinger
Chief, Dept. LAIEZ
The World Dank
Fax Tel No. 202 676 0259
Washington, D.C. e1433
U. . A.
SUBJECT  :     LOAN  5338-PE,  *1ERY CONSERVATION AND
SAT! ONAIZATI ON PROJCT
Dear Mr. Ettingers
We have reviewed the draft cf the Prc.ct Comoletion
Memorandum  you  have  sent  to  us  for  comments.  and
basically we  agre.  with  its  contents.    However,  we
believe that a more  cautious wording and phrasing  might
be used whenever you re-7or to CENERGIA (one of the most
successful  Bank  projects  in  Per4.  finances  Its  own
oo@rations without subsidies, etc).
As you may knowp during past Administrationg energy
pricing  (below  international   parity)  and   country's
economic coirtraints did not permit CENER0SA to obtain
dotter results and it has h4d to be supportod not only
with staff but also with cash from public enterprisest to
cover an average of 16% of their total budget in the last
four years (60? of their domestic currency budget).
Starting in 1998, the budget of CENI9RWIA is aimed to
self-finance its own domestic currency *ependitures.
since   nrt-rqy   pricing  Is   pro9rWssively  -approaching
international parity levels, It is expected an Increasing
interest from private companies to invest In energy
conservation   measures   (very   few   of   the   energy
conservaticn measures identified by CENERSIA in the last
years, that require investments, have been implemerted so
far).
t      We  also   observe  the   foundation  of   some   orivate
consultancy firms dealing with energy, which in the  long
run will comoeot with CENERGO6A.
P5T§ "OPE9U S.A.
PatS %A MMUC3USUS . ""AM * 1081, .,A*AU
ISJ   003 *880  ?3"&LUreto@ 48)06 * 08108



UPLE-146-92
The forth*:ominq years will provide information to support
a more enthusiastic descriotion of a, yet to be provid
but desired; CENER3IA success._
gas  regards,   t
Chairman of the Doar\



