Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIC!AL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-3955-PE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF US$4.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
PETROLEOS DEL PERU - PETROPERU S.A. WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION AND RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
APRIL 18, 1985
This docunet hbas a restixcted distribution and ay be ued by recipiets only in the performance of
their official dutis Its contets -y not otherwise be disclosed widtnt World Bank authoriztion.I



Currency Unit - Sol (S/.)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The exchange rate is being adjusted daily roughly in line with the
differential between domestic and international inflation. The exchange
rate and currency equivalents as of April 3, 1985 were as follows:
US$1      =  SI. 7,321
SI. 1     =  US$0.000136
Si. 1,000 = US$0.14
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
COFIDE    -   State Development Finance Corporation
CENERCIA  -   Center for Energy Conservation
CONADE    -   National Development Corporation
IDB       -   Inter-American Development Batik
ITINTEC   -   Institute for Industrial Technological Research and Standards
MEM       -   Ministry of Energy and Mines
NEC       -   National Energy Council
PETROPERU -   Petroleos del Peru
kgoe      -   Kilogram of Oil Equivalent
tcf       -   Trillion Cubic Feet
toe       -   Tons of Cil Equivalent
tpy       -   Tons per year
USAID     -   United States Agency for International Develnnment



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PERU
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION AND RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower                : Petroleos del Peru (PETROPERU).  In accordance
with Peruvian law, the Corporacion Financiera de
Desarrollo (COFIDE) would act as PETROPERU's
financial agent.
Guarantor               : Republic of Peru.
Amount                  : US$4.0 million equivalent
Terms                   : Repayable in 17 years, including four years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Beneficiary             : Center for Energy Conservation (CENERGIA).
Use of Loan Funds       : PETROPERU will use the proceeds of the loan
exclusively for financing goods and services
required for the Project. PETROPERD will repay
the loan and bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description     : The Project would establish a Center for Energy
Conservation to assist the industrial sector in
Peru in reducing energy costs through conserva-
tion and rationalization, including the carrying
out of energy audits, development of energy
conservation and rationalization legislation,
carrying out an incentives study for energy
savings, preparation of manuals and handbooks on
energy saving measures in energy-intensive sub-
sectors and training. The implementation of the
Project would be carried out with the assistance
-         of the Energy Conservation Department (ECD) that
*                                   will be created by PETROPERU exclusively for
purposes of the Project. The relationship
between PETROPERU and the Center will be
detailed in a Management Contract to be approved
by the Bank. The Project would result in the
identification of energy conservation measures
and investments that, at today's oil prices,
could eventually produce estimated net annual
savings of about US$44 million excluding the
benefits from inter-fuel substitution.
This document has a rsicted distribution and may be used by rcipients only in the performnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Risks                    * The principal risks facing the Project relate to
the quality of personnel and the managerial
and institutional problems common to new
undertakings; and the willingness of industrial
companies to have energy audits performed, and
to pay for them. The first risk is being
minimized through the management contract with
PETROPERU, which will provide management and
other services to the Center. The second risk
would be minimized by the Center's promotional
and cost recovery efforts. The Project poses no
environmental risks.



- iii -
Estimated Projected Cost (US$000)                Foreign    Local      Total
I.   Consultants and Technical Adviser            1,980       -        1,980
II.  Travel Seminars and Overseas Ir  ning          257        75        332
III. Salaries and Overheada/                        -       1,091      1,091
IV.  Maintenance, Office and Ot9her                  15       210        225
V.   Equipment and Instrumentation                1,027       100      1,127
Total Base Cost Estimate b/                  3,279     1,476     4,755
Physical Contingency (52)                      149        89       238
Price Contingency(18.82)                       572       367       939
Installed Cost                              4,000      1,932     5,932
Working Capital                                  -       140        140
Total Cost                                   4,000     2,072     6,072
Financing Plan
Proceeds from Audit and Training Fees         -          412       412
IBRD                                        4,000        -       4,000
PETROPERU                                      -1600             1.660
4,000     2,072     6,072
a/   This includes salaries and overhead of PETROPERU staff assigned to the
Energy Conservation Department but excludes salaries and overhead of
staff seconded from ELECTROPERU and other local companies. Salaries
and overhead costs of ELECTROPERU and other companies are estimated at
about US$1,185,000 equivalent.
b/   March 1985 prices.
Disbursement Estimates (IBRD FY) (million US$)
*                                         1986     1987      1988     1989     1990
Annual                         0.5      1.2       1.2      0.8      0.3
Cumulative                     0.5      1.7       2.9      3.7      4.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: None



DNTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO PETROLEOS
DEL PERU WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF PERU FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION AND RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Petroleos del Peru 'PETROPERU) with the guarantee of the Republic
of Peru for the equivalent of US$4.0 million to help finance an industrial
energy conservation and rationalization project. The proposed loan would
have a term of 17 years, including four years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONiOMY
?.        A Peru Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 5267) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on November 6, 1984. The following
is based on the findings of that report and the findings of an economic
mission to Peru in November 1984. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
Natural and Human Resources
3.        Peru, the fourth largest country in Latin America, is divided by
the Andes mountains into three distinct regions: the coastal region
with 46 percent of the population and most of the country's modern economic
activity; the mountain region with 44 percent of the country's population;
and the sparsely populated tropical rain forests east of the Andes.
4.        Peru's natural resources include large deposits of minerals--par-
ticularly copper, iron, silver, and zinc--located mainly in the mountains
and the southern coast. There are also large phosphate deposits and
substantial petroleum resources in the rain forest and off-shore, but their
full extent has not yet been ascertained. Another major natural resource
is the large fishing potential in coastal waters, although the catch is
subject to sharp fluctuations. Only a small portion of Peru's total land
area is arable, and most of the soils suitable for intensive agriculture
are already being farmed. Peru's energy resources are discussed further in
part III, The Energy Sector.
5.        After accelerating during 1930-1960, birth rates have fallen
gradually, mainly caused by the urbanization process and improved
education. But with declining death rates, population has continued to
grow at about 2.5 percent p.a. between 1972 and 1981 to 17 million.
Preliminary 1981 census information indicates that fertility declined by 20
percent during the past decade and the current rate of population growth



has dropped to 2.2 percent p.a. The census also indicates that the
reduction in population growth is most marked among the 65 percent of the
population living in the urban areas. The Government is quite
population-conscious and is now supporting a family planning program.
rast Development Policies and Performance (1968-78)
6.        Two successive military Governments, in office from October 1968
until July 1980, aimed at promoting economic growth and improving the
distribution of income and wealth. They nationalized many production and
distribution activities, and conducted a sweeping land reform. However,
many of their policies had an excessive cost, and implementation was
often inefficient. In particular, expansionary fiscal and credit policies
between 1968 and 1977 produced strong inflationary pressures and expanded
external borrowing, raising Peru's external debt to almost US$8.4 billion
(including short-term indebtedness); about two-third's of GDP. By
mid-1978, the country was in the midst of a severe financial crisis;
inflation had accelerated to an annual rate of about 100 percent and the
banking system's net international reserves dropped to a negative level of
US$1 billion. Peru was no longer able to service its foreign obligations.
7.        Beginning in May 1978, the Government adopted a number of
important measures aimed at strengthening public finances, improving the
balance of payments and curbing inflation. It negotiated a
stand-by-arrangement with the IMF and carried out major debt-relief
operations, postponing repayment of about US$1 billion due in 1979/80 to
the 1982-1986 period. The Government also adopted a complementary Economic
Recovery Program, including measures to open up the economy, supported by a
Us$115 million Bank Program Loan in May 1979.
8.        The Government's program resulted in reducing the overall public
sector deficit from 5.7 percent of GDP in 1978 to 1.7 percent in 1979, and
the more careful management of public finances had a positive impact on the
balance of payments. At the same time, an increase in petroleum exports
and a substantial improvement in Peru's terms of trade generated a surplus
in the current account of the balance of payments in 1979 and equilibrium
in 1980, as well as strengthening Peru's net reserves position. GDP
growth recovered, but the public sector deficit increased again to six
percent of GDP in 1980, and inflation exceeded 60 percent.
9.        After a new constitution was written by a popularly elected
constituent assembly, elections were held in May 1980, and the winner,
President Fernando Belaunde, was inauguirated on July 28, 1980. His
Government confronted severe structural weaknesses only temporarily
obscured by the improvements in the terms of trade and the resumption of
growth. The Government initiallv accelerated import liberalization and
streamlined export incentives. At the same time, new legislation offered
greater incentives to investors. Substantial changes were made in the
financial sector, through upward adjustments of the interest rate, and the
reduction of legal reserve requirements. The Government also made progress



in correcting major price distortions by reducing food subsidies,
eliminating some price controls and periodically adjusting public utility
and petroleum product prices. Finally, the Government endeavored to
strengthen public managemenm. and rationaLize public investment and its
financing, an effort that was supported by a Bank-sponsored Consultative
Group meeting in May 1981.
Recent Developments and Outlook
10.       The 1981-83 world recession radically changed Peru's economic
a           situation.  In 1981, the first full year of the new Government, the world
demand for Peru's main exports declined, interest rates on the country's
external debt increased, and the terms of trade fell by 10 percent as a
result of lower export prices. The overall negative impact of these
external events on Peru's balance of payments was estimated at USS740
million. A substantial recovery of agricultural output (with a growth rate
of almost 12 percent) and an even faster growth of construction (mostly
public) allowed GDP growth of near four percent. However, industrial
output stagnated, mini.g fell by four percent, the public sector deficit
increased to about eight percent of GDP and the current account of the
balance of payments closed with a deficit of US$1.7 billion.
11.       By 1982, economic activity was slowing down, world commodity
prices continued to fall, and the public sector deficit had also
increased. The Government then adopted an austerity program and in June
1982, the IMF approved an SDR 850 million compensatory-cum-EFF arrangement
to support Peru's stabilization efforts. The current account deficit in
the balance of payments was reduced slightly (to US$1.6 billion) in 1982,
despite lower export prices, but GDP growth slowed to less than one
percent, industrial output fell more than two percent, the public sector
deficit rose to 8.8 percent of GDP, and inflation continued at more than 70
percent.
12.       The still sizeable public sector and current account deficits,
combined with the reduced availability of external loans from international
commercial banks, encouraged the Government to try to accelerate the
adjustment process in 1983. The new measures included a large cut in
public investment, acceleration of price adjustments of publicly supplied
goods and services, and faster reduction of food subsidies. Also, the
Government followed a restrictive monetary policy, and mini-devaluations
from January to August 1983 again exceeded domestic inflation, as they had
during 1982.
13.       Peru's economic difficulties, however, were compounded by natural
disasters suffered during the first half of 1983. Heavy rains flooded the
northern part of the country; there was also a severe drought in the south,
massive landslides in the central area, and a reduction in the fish catch.
Most of these were linked to a change in El Nino, a current in the Pacific
Ocean off the Peruvian coast. These disasters were costly; replacing the
damaged infrastructure could require over US$500 million. Output losses



- 4 -
were also substantial. Agricultural production was particularly hard hit
in the north of Peru where cotton crops were destroyed. Flooding of the
Talara oil fields and damage to the trans-Andean pipeline caused a 12
percent drop in oil production (to an average of 172,000 bpd), and a ten
percent fall in petroleum exports.
14.       In addition to the natural disasters, the private sector suffered
from a severe credit squeeze when the Central Bank protected Peru's foreign
exchange reserves as foreign interest payments rose and previous inflows of
short-term capital reversed. The squeeze in the private sector was
intensified by the dominant claim of the public sector on available
credit. Despite the credit squeeze, inflation accelerated to 125 percent,
in part a result of the natural disasters, but also of inflationary
expectations fueled by the mini-devaluations. The 10.9 percent GDP decline
was dominated by output drops in manufacturing, services and agriculture,
although output in some smaller sectors, such as fishing and construction,
fell more sharply. The current account deficit in the balance of payments
was reduced to about US$900 million as imports declined with output.   The
financing of even this reduced deficit required a renegotiation of
commercial bank debt (in March 1983) and of debt to member countries of the
Paris Club (in July 1983). The rescheduling agreement with the commercial
banks allowed for the phased release of US$450 million in "new money",
subject to the Government's receiving continuing IMF support under the EFF
agreement. Unfortunately, public sector revenues declined substantially
during the recession, and the public sector deficit, at nearly 11 percent
of GDP, substantially exceeded the Government's target under the EFF.
15.       By the end of 1983, it was clear to the Government that it could
not meet the terms of the EFF arrangement; it therefore negotiated with the
IMF an 18-month Standby to replace the final period of the EFF. The
Standby was approved in April, 1984. As part of its new program, the
Government increased interest payments on bank deposits, raised electricity
and water rates in real terms and confirmed its tight money program. On
the strength of the Standby, Peru's commercial creditor banks agreed to a
rescheduling of US$1.5 billion in amortization payments due to them between
January 1984 and July 1985, and released US$100 million in new money.
Bilateral lenders agreed under the Paris Club in June 1984 to reschedule
over US$800 million of 1984/85 principal and interest payments. No
drawings have been made against the Standby since June, 1984, since the
Government found itself unable to meet the program targets.
16.       In 1984, the economy experienced a modest recovery, with GDP
increasing by about 4 percent as fishing rebounded strongly, agriculture
began a slow recovery, and moderate growth resumed in most other sectors
except Government services and manufacturing. The recovery in
manufacturing was weak because real domestic demand remained depressed,
reflecting continuing tight credit conditions. Since exports rose
slightly, while imports again fell in response to continuing slack in
domestic demand and rising protection, the current account balance of



payments deficit contracted to about US$770 million. Continuing
substantial public medium- and long-term loan disbursements and diminished
short-term capital outflows were the main factors contributing to a net
capital inflow more than adequate to cover the current account deficit.
However, the current account deficit had been substantially reduced by
Government non-payment of interest due to commercial banks making the
increase of US$75 million in Peru's reserves illusory. The inflation rate
slowed perceptibly in the latter part of 1984, reflecting both tight money
and renewed output growth. Inflation for the year dropped to about 112
percent, compared with 125 percent the previous year. In the last half of
the year, the sol was devalued faster than domestic inflation, considerably
improving Peru's international competitive position. With an improvement
in public sector revenues and a drop in expenditures, the public sector
deficit declined to a little over 8 percent of CDP.
17.       At end-1984, arrears on Peru's external debt service payments
were US$371 million, of which US$294 million represented delayed interest
payments. The Government has since paid US$50 million of the interest
outstanding and none of the obligations has been classified as value
impaired.- The Government nonetheless confronts a very serious problem in
servicing outstanding debt, estimated at US$13.3 billion at end-1984
(corresponding to 74.8% of GDP), of which public medium- and long-term debt
was US$12.1 billion. The bulk of this will mature over the next four years
and service paymert liabilities are in consequence projected to peak around
1987, when debt service requirements could be as much as twice actual 1984
levels. This profile poses major problems for the Government, unable to
meet the current level of debt service and confronting an economy likely to
remain weak for several years. Further commercial debt rescheduling will
likely be required.
18.       The Central Bank continues to exert strict control over credit
and the Government's 1985 Budget aims at reducing the public sector deficit
to 7.1 percent of GDP. The Government has recently initiated discussions
with the IMF concerning a new EFF agreement that could potentially pave the
way for an accelerated economic recovery, a resumption of commercial bank
lending, and a higher level of Bank and other bilateral and multilateral
lender disbursements. The Government is also exploring the basis for a
multi-year debt rescheduling agreement with the commercial banks, which
hold more than half of Peru's debt. Concrete agreements are unlikely to be
reached until after the impending change of Government, following elections
scheduled in April 1985. With such agreements, reinforced by a Government
commitment to structural reforms required to raise the economic growth
rate, Peru could remain creditworthy for Bank lending. Pending the
resolution of present uncertainties, Bank lending will continue only at a
substantially reduced rate.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
19.       The Bank has approved 58 loans to Peru for a total amount of
US$1,667.9 million, net of cancellations. About 22 percent of the Bank's



- 6 -
lending to Peru has been for transportation (mainly highways and ports), 25
percent for egriculture, 19 percent for the energy sector, 1l percent for
mining and industry, about 15 percent for education, health and urban
development, 7 percent for a program loan in support of the Economic
Recovery Program 4.a 1979, and 1 percent for a technical assistance
operation.
20.       Annex II contains summary statement of Bank loans and their
disbursements status as of March 31, 1985. As of this date, US$746.9
million was undisbursed. Disbursements on Bank-financed projects moved
slowly in the late 1970s, primarily because of weak project execution
capacity and a shortage of counterpart funds that worsened as the economy
deteriorated during this period. Disbursements improved until FY83,
however, with vigorous efforts by the Bank and Government to correct the
situation by: inter alia, (i) opening a Bank resident mission in Peru;
(ii) restructuring a number of slow moving projects; (iti) Government
provision of adequate counterpart funds; and (iv) Government creation of a
special commission to monitor loan execution and resolve administrative
problems. Disbursement rates (the rate of disbursements to undisbursed
funds) in FY80-82 averaged 33 percent, well above comparable countries and
above pre-1980 rates for Peru. Although actual disbursements continued to
rise in FY83 (US$86.9 million) and FY84 (US$104.2 million), the rate
decreased to around 20 percent because the large number of loans approved
in 1982-83 increased the undisbursed balance and as a result of limited
counterpart availability. To some extent, the counterpart problem has been
ameliorated by the Special Action Program which the Bank initiated in Peru
in 1983. The Program increased the percentage of costs which the Bank
would finance in seven projects and established revolving funds in five
projects.
21.       The main objectives of Bank lending to Peru have been to assist
in: (i) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial sectors, i.e.,
petroleum, agriculture and mining; (ii) the strengthening, through
technical assistance loans and regular operations, of public sector
management, including more effective economic policies; (iii) the creation
of the physical infrastructure needed to sustain and foster economic
development; and (iv) the improvement of living conditions for the urban
and rural poor. In the years prior to 1980, Bank lending concentrated on
infrastructure in the transportation and power sectors. More recently, the
Bank's emphasis has shifted to more directly productive fields--petroleum,
agriculture, mining, and industry--to help Peru to strengthen its balance
of payments and to lending for socially nriented projects in the areas of
health, education and urban development. The recently reduced program will
focus on priority social projects or technical assistance projects that
will provide a foundation for the resumption, if and when circumstances
warrant, of a normal lending program.
22.       Earlier this fiscal year, the Bank approved a US$27 million
primary education project for Peru. There are two other loans in an
advanced state of preparation. Both are aimed at providing technical



assistance. The first would aid the electric power sector by providing
assistance to the new regional power companies that have been created by
the Government to improve the efficie:.cy of the sector through
decentralization. The second would continue and expand the work begun
under the first Public Sector Management Project (Loan 2204-PE) which was
approved in September 1982. Bank lending beyond these projects will depend
very much on the economic program and development priorities that the new
Government scheduled to take office in July 1985 adopts. Possible areas of
lending could be in industry, petroleum development, water and electric
power. Some project preparation work has been undertacen in all of these
areas.
23.       Bank loans constituted an estimated 6.0 percent of Peru's total
public external debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1983, and
absorbed about nine percent of the country's public external debt service
in 1983 (taking into account the effects of rescheduling of 1983 principal
and interest payments).
24.        IFC commitments as of March 31, 1985, were US$42.6 million of
which US$22.9 million is held by the Corporation. A summary statement of
IFC investments as of September 30, 1984, is presented in Annex II. The
other principal lending agencies active in Peru are the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) and the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID).  Their total commitments as of December 31, 1984 were
US$1.6 billion and US$438 million, respectively. In its future operations,
IDB is expected to emphasize lending for agriculture, industry, mining,
roads and small-scale irrigation. USAID is expected to stress rural, urban
and private sector development.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
25.       Energy Resource Base and Balance.  Peru has diverse and as yet
largely untapped energy resources, consisting of hydroelectric power, oil,
natural gas, coal, geothermal power, and renewable resources such as
firewood and bagasse. Hydroelectric potential, of which less than 4
percent (2,000 MW) is presently exploited, is estimated at about 58,000
MW. Proven and probable oil reserves are estimated at about 1.4 billion
barrels, natural gas at about 1.9 trillion cubic feet (TCF), and coal at
about I biltion tons. Although hot water springs exist in many parts of the
country, the Government is only now beginning to study these geothermal
resources. Peru also has abundant forests covering almost 60 percent of
its total land area. More than 95 percent of these forests, however, are
located in the sparsely populated Selva region, with fuelwood scarce in
most of the densely-populated areas.
26.        Peru consumes annually about 11.3 million tons of oil equivalent
(toe) of energy, resulting in a per capita consumption of about 690
kilograms of oil equivalent (kgoe), compared with a world average of



8 -
1,500 kgoe, and a Latin American average of 1,000 kgoe. Petroleum products
accounted for the largest share of energy consumption (about 60%), followed
by firewood (24%), electricity (6%), natural gas (5%), bagasse and other
biomass (4.5%), and coal (0.5%).
27.       Commercial energy consumption is about 8.3 million toe,
accounting for 73 percent of total consumption; traditional sources
accounted for the remaining 27 percent. The transport sector is the
largest consumer of commercial energy (30%), followed by industry (22%),
household (20%), and mining and metallurgical sectors (15%). Petroleum is
the main energy source for industry, mining and transport sectors,
accounting for 49 percent, 46 percent, and 100 percent, respectively, of
consumption in those sectors.
28.       During the last decade, the petroleum subsector in Peru has
changed considerably. Successful commercial exploitation of its petroleum
deposits transformed Peru from a net importer of petroleum to a net
exporter by 1978. This was accompanied by an increased growth in domestic
consumption of petroleum energy, partly due to a shift in consumption from
non-petroleum to petroleum energy. Peru's petroleum production during
1985-88 is forecast to average about 9.8 million tons per year (tpy),
beyond which it is expected to decline unless new wells are discovered. As
a result, crude exports are likely to decrease sharply from the present
level of about 2 million tons, further aggravating Peru's trade balance.
As domestic consumption rises, Peru is likely to become a net petroleum
importer by the late 1980s. In this context, energy conservation and
inter-fuel substitution, especially in the industrial and mining sectors
are of crucial importance for Peru. PETROPERU, the national petroleum
company, therefore, is keen on energy conservation and rationalization as a
means to maintain surplus petroleum for exports.
Energy Sector Organization and Planning
29.       The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) is responsible for
formulating energy policy and coordinating all energy planning activities
in the country. It regulates the exploration and exploitation of all
energy resources except forests, which is the responsibility of the
Ministry of Agriculture. MEM also initiates energy pricing actions but
these must be approved by the Minister of Finance and Economy. Operational
responsibility of the sector is delegated to various public sector
corporations which report to MEM. PETROPERU is responsible for the
petroleum sub-sector; ELECTROPERU and associated electric utility companies
for the electric power sub-sector.
30.       The Government of Peru gives high priority to developing its
energy sector. In 1981, it established a National Energy Council (NEC) to
provide energy policy advice to the Minister of Energy and Mines; following
approval of its statutes in June 1983, the Council was officially
inaugurated in November 1983. The Council is comprised of a Directing
Committee and a Secretariat. The Directing Committee consists of
representatives from various public-sector companies in the energy sector.



- 9 -
One of the tasks of the Council is to promote the creation of a Center for
Energy Conservation (CENERGIA), along with appropriate energy conservation
legislation. The Council's other tasks include preparing energy balances,
recommending financial policies for hydrocarbon and electricity
development, coordinating training programs for the energy sector, and
carrying out energy planning for the country.
Iuidustrial Energy Consumption
31.       Peru has a fairly well-developed industrial sector which accounts
for about 30 percent of its GDP. Total industrial energy constumption
(including that of agro-industry and mining) is about 3.4 million toe,
representing 30 percent of the country's total consumption (excluding
wood). The main energy-intensive industries are mining, petroleum
refining, chemicals, fertilizers, pulp and paper, brick-making, cement,
glass, textiles, food processing, breweries, sugar, iron pelletizing, and
steel. Most of these facilities were developed prior to the energy crisis
of 1973, when petroleum energy was still relatively cheap and energy
conservation equipment less economical. Industrial investors, keen on
reducing capital costs to increase profitability, often ignored these
energy conservation investments, and were content with plants which were
less energy efficient than those built today. Rising petroleum energy
prices, however, have made many of these energy conservation and inter-fuel
substitution measures highly economical.
3i.       Compared to some developing countries (e.g., South Korea), the
energy conservation and rationalization efforts by Peru so far have been
modest.  Preliminary energy audits of some energy-intensive plants have
been carried out with UNDP assistance. Further, under the Bank-financed
Petroleum Refineries Engineering Project (Loan 2117-PE), energy saving and
process optimization studies qre being implemented in two of PETROPERU's
refineries:  the La Pampilla refinery, near Lima, and the Talar  _-.   ery,
1,000 km northwest of Lima. These refineries account for 92 p* rcent of the
refining capacity in Peru. The studies, now underway, will help develop a
program for energy saving and operational efficiency improvement of the
refinery sector. The project is proceeding satisfactorily, and is expected
to result in identification, evaluation and implementation of energy
conservation investments in the refinery sector. The proposed Industrial
Energy Conservation and Rationalization Project will focus on energy
conservation and rationalization potential in industries other than oil
refining.
33.       Based on preliminary survey results, it is estimated that a
properly organized and implemented energy conservation and inter-fuel
substitution program in Peru could yield petroleum energy savings of
565,000 to 755,000 toe per vear, as shown in the following table.



- 10 -
Potential Petroleum Energy Savings from Conservation and
Inter-fuel Substitution a/
(thousand toe)
Manufacturing
Conservation              Industry         Mining     Total      Average
Short-term                  95-135         10-30      105-165      135
Medium-term                 65- 95         30-40       95-135      115
Sub-total             160-230         40-70     200-300       250
Inter-fuel Substitution   335-395          30-60     365-455       410
Total             495-625         70-130    565-755       660
==
a/   Excluding savings achievable by implementing energy conservation
measures in PETROPERU's petroleum refineries.
34.       Of the total savings of 565,000 to 755,000 toe, 200,000-300,000
toe could be achieved through energy conservation and the remaining through
inter-fuel substitution. About 54 percent of the potential savings from
conservation could be achieved in the short-term with minimal investment;
these savings could be achieved mainly by better housekeeping and some
minor retrofitting which would be identified by the detailed energy audits
proposed under the Project. Medium-term savings (those arising from major
retrofits and process modifications) could range from 95,000 to 135,000
toe. At today's prices, annual savings from short- and medium-term energy
conservation measures could amount to between US$35 million and US$52
million. The total investment (excluding taxes) required to achieve both
the short-term and medium-term savings is estimated to be between US$56
million to US$88 million; the pay-back period for individual investments
could range from 1 to 3 years. The economic viability of these energy
conservation measures is discussed further in paras 63-64.
35.       As shown in the table above (para 33), potential savings through
inter-fuel substitution are also significant. In the manufacturing
industries, 335,000-395,000 toe per year of fuel oil could be replaced by
coal, hydroelectricity and biomass; in mining, an additional 30,000-60,000
toe per year of diesel and fuel oil could be replaced by coal,
hydroelectricity and biomass, giving a total of 365,000 - 455,000 toe of
hydrocarbon fuels which could be replaced by cheaper alternative energy
sources in the industrial sector as a whole. Fuel oil and diesel thus
saved could be exported. These annual savings from inter-fuel substitution
could amount to between US$28 million and IJS$35 million. A total
investment (excluding taxes) ranging from USS98 million to US$133 million
would be required to achieve these savings. It is anticipated that the



- 11 -
actual implementation of the investments will be carried out over a number
of years, depending on the intersectoral priorities and availability of
resources. These investments are likely to yield economic rates of return
ranging from 20-30 percent.
36.       The substitution of fuel oil would need to be based on imported
coal because currently the domestic coal supply is very small and often not
of high quality. If, in future, production of domestic coal could be
increased and its quality improved, imported coal could gradually be
replaced by cheaper domestic coal.
37.       About 65 percent of the total potential energy saving from
conservation and inter-fuel substitution lies in the public sector and the
rest in the private sector. As noted, however, implementation of these
investments is expected to stretch over a long period as many of the
smaller plants would probably want to review the experience of other plants
before investing in energy conservation and rationalization measures
themselves. The proposed Project would provide the framework for
identifying these energy conservation and rationalization investments, and
evaluating their economic viability, with the aim of accelerating the pace
of implementation of the most economic and promising measures.
38.       Some of the large and sophisticated companies in Peru have
already embarked on energy efficiency and rationalization programs of their
own. For example, Cemento Lima, a joint sector company (51% private) and a
major cement producer, has already implemented an energy conservation
project. It plans to achieve further savings by switching from fuel oil to
imported coal, and is investing in the necessary facilities, including the
infrastructure and handling facilities at the port to import coal. These
port facilities could also be used by other plants planning to switch from
fuel oil to coal in the future.
Energy Pricing
39.       The most important measure to encourage energy efficiency is to
set energy prices at levels that reflect their long-term economic
opportunity costs. Peru has made significant progress in this direction.
Currently, prices of all petroleum products, except kerosene, are either
very close to or above the import parity price levels. As for kerosene,
its prices are about 30 percent lower than the import parity price level.
Any increase in kerosene prices, however, would result in an adverse social
impact because a large proportion of kerosene is consumed by the low-income
segment of the population; the existing prices result in subsidizing
consumption of this segment. With the exception of domestic kerosene, the
Government intends to maintain the prices of oil products near or above the
import parity levels. Electricity tariffs in Peru are comparatively low,
and do not provide a reasonable return on investment for power companies.
As a result of the Bank's continuing dialogue with Peru, the Government
increased electricity prices by about 40 percent in real terms between
December 1983 and December 1984. The Government is considering further



- 12 -
increases in power tariffs to enable power companies to achieve a
reasonable return on investment as agreed under the Bank Loan 2179-PE.
Need for a National Program for Energy Conservation and Rationalization
40.       Even when energy prices are set at appropriate levels, as noted
earlier, there is need for carrying out comprehensive special energy
conservation measures since many consumers do not react adequatelY or
promptly to energy price signals. This inertia is often due to energy
conservation investments being complex, requiring intensive studies and, in
many cases, requiring innovative devices. Also, these investments are not
easily identifiable by non-specialists and they typically consist of a
large number of discrete additions/modifications to the existing
facilities. The experience of the industrialized countries suggests that
in order to realize the potential for energy conservation in industry,
there is a crucial need to undertake energy conservation campaigns and
training to support a realistic energy pricing policy. The campaign should
aim at creating an awareness in industry and the general public of the
magnitude of the costs and benefits associated with the energy
rationalization measures. In addition, there is need for technical
assistance to carry out energy audits, especially in different industrial
plants, and to identify and evaluate attractive opportunities for energy
conservation and inter-fuel substitution. Following these audits, some
financing should be available from existing uncommitted lines of credit
with COFIDE and Banco Industrial for implementing the energy conservation
and rationalization projects identified.
41.       Peru is trying to develop an energy conservatlon and rationaliza-
tion program on the above lines. As noted (para 30), to assist in the
development of this program, it established the National Energy Council
(NEC) in 1981. Since none of the existing organizations is equipped to
implement such a program, one of the tasks of NFC is to help establish the
Center for Energy Conservation to make necessary arrangements for the
implementation of such a program.
Rationale for Bank involvement
42.       In 1982, as a part of the Petroleum Refinery Engineering Project
(Loan No. 2117-PE), the Bank decided to finance studies for energy saving
and efficiency improvement of PETROPERU's oil refineries and related
industrial plants. The Project is being successfully implemented, and
PETROPERU has already started benefitting from these energy saving
measures. The proposed Project would extend similar benefits to other
industrial units in Peru, thereby improving their profitability. The Bank
has assisted in identifying key industries in public and private sectors
which could benefit from a national energy conservation and rationalization
program, in conceptualizing a framework under which such a program could be
implemented, and in developing the scope of work and organizational
structure of the proposed Center for Energy Conservation. By participating
in the Project, the Bank could continue to assist the country in its energy
conservation and rationalization efforts.



- 13 -
43.       The Bank's role in the Project has proven helpful in attracting
both private and public sector companies to participate in the energy
conservation and rationalization program. Through possible participation
in the financing of the projects that would emerge from the energy audits,
the Bank could continue to play an important role in fulfilling the
objectives of the program.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
44.       The project was identified by a Bank mission which visited Peru
in February/March 1984, and appraised in November 1984. Negotiations were
held in Washington from March 18 to March 25, 1985; the Peruvian delegation
was led by Messrs. Luis Chang of CENERGIA, and Jorge Fernandez of
PETROPERU and included representatives of COFIDE and the Ministry of
Economy and Finance. A Loan and Project Summary is given at the heginning
of this report, and a Supplementary Project Data Sheet appears as Annex
*TI.
Objectives and Project Description
45.       The primary objective of the Project is to assist the industrial
sector in Peru in reducing energy costs through conservation and
rationalization, including the carrying out of energy audits, promotion,
training, development of energy conservation legislation, and prepariug
manuals and handbooks on energy-saving measures. For this purpose, a
Center for Energy Conservation (CENERGIA) has been established as an
autonomous entity with representatives from both public and private
companies. The Center consists of a General Assembly, a Board of Directors
and an Executive Secretariat which currently consists of a
Director-General. While giving policy direction and guidance, and
establishing priorities in undertaking audits, the Center will minimize
overhead costs in carrying out its work, by signing a management contract
with PETROPERU, the leading industrial enterprise in Peru with considerable
experience in energy conservation (para 42). PETROPERU will also provide
to the Center the necessary staff and resources, over and above those
available from other sources (para 53). PETROPERU will be the Borrower
under the Bank loan and use loan proceeds for purchasing goods and services
exclusively for the Project. It will also be responsible for repayment of
the Bank loan. PETROPERU has an interest in assuming this role since a
successful energy conservation program will permit the expansion of
petroleum exports, which--in addition to country economic benefits--would
have financial benefits for PETROPERU. Further, given that PETROPERU has
acquired significant expertise in supervising energy audits for its



- 14 -
industrial plants under the Bank financed P'etroleum Refinery Engineering
Project (Loan No. 2117-PE), and since that part of the project is neartng
completion (para 42), PETROPERTI wotild have the abilitv and experience to
assume implementation responsibilities for the Projert.  Under the
management contract, PETROPERLI will establish a new EnergyConservation
Department (ECD) which will include staff assigned by PETROPERU, as well as
staff seconded by other companies to the Center (para 53). ECD will also
hire consultants to work in it on behalf of the Project. Inter alia, ECD,
under the direction of the Center, wouid:
(i)  Carry out publicitv campaigns for energy
rationalization throutgh radio, TV, exhibitions,
seminars, articles, and puiblications; estahlish a
computerized data hank to collect, exchange, and
disseminate statistical information on energy use; and
monitor progress and results achieved by the country
under the energy conservation and rationalization
program.
(ii)  Organize and execnte a program of energy audits in
selected plants to identifv the rises and sources of
energy at the plant level, the areas where waste
occurs, and the most economically attractive energy
rationalization opportunities, and to recommend
measures and investment programs for typical firms,
both in the short- and long-term; and following the
audits, to carry out technical and economic appraisals
of proposed energy conservation and rationalization
investments to facilitate the provision of loans from
lending institutions, and participate in negotiations
for such loans, if necessary.
(iii) Provide technical assistance and specialized advisory
services to industrial enterprises on specific aspects
of retrofitting, waste heat recovery, cogeneration of
steam and power, process modifications, etc.; prepare
energy conservation and rationalization manuals and
handbooks for energy-intensive subsectors in industrv,
mining, etc.; help develop energy conservation and
rationalization legislation for Peru; and carry out an
Incentives Studv for Energv Conservation and
Rationalization.
(iv) Provide courses and training for: (a) engineers, energy
coordinators and energy managers of enterprises
proposing to carry ont energy rationalization projects,
and (b) local consulting firms interested in acquiring
expertise in energy conservation nnd rationalization;
and coordinate the energv rationalization work with
technical institutions and tiniversities carrying out



- 15 -
research and development activities, and execute
demonstration projects on energy rationalization.
The Borrower
46.       PETPOPERU is the largest public sector corporation in Peru and
employs about 9,000 people. It was established in 1969 following the
nationalization of International Petroleum Company (IPC), a subsidiary of
Exxon. PETRO'PERU acquired the assets of IPC, those of a small government-
owned comrany and several other private companies. PETROPERU is currently
involved in oil exploration, production, refining, and the marketing of
finished petroleum products. In addition to oil exploration and
product4.on, it operates the Transandean pipeline, and produces
petrochemicals and fertilizers. PETROPERU has a ten member Board of
Directors. The President, who is also the Chairman of the Board, has broad
management authority within the company. Although senior management is
competent, middle management, especially in exploration operations, has
been weakened by the loss of mans of its qualified personnel who left the
company in the late 1970s for higher paying jobs elsewhere. The Industrial
Production Central Management, which is responsible for refinery and
industrial operations, and which will supervise the proposed Energy
Conservation Department, however, was able to retain a substantial number
of qualified people as they had less opportunities in the private sector
compared to exploration .rid production personnel. In 1981, PETROPERU was
given greater autonomy to improve its salary structure. As a result, its
salary scales are now competitive with the private sector, and the loss of
experienced personnel has declined. To further strengthen its corporate
structure, PETROPERU engaged Arthur D. Little, Inc., as consultants, to
carry out an organizational and management study to recommend
improvements. In early 1983, following the recommendations of the
consultants, PETROPERU was reorganized.
47.       A review of the financial situation of PETROPERU shows that its
revenues in US dollars equivalent increased by 12 percent in 1984, reaching
nearly US$1.5 billion equivalent. Its internal cash generation rose from
US$177 million equivalent in 1983 to US$232 million equivalent in 1984,
reflecting an increase of 31 percent. The debt/equity ratio of the Company
continues to be at a satisfactory level of about 30/70 after revaluation.
The liquiditv situation of the Company, however, is tight because of the
increase in taxes by the Government on petroleum prodtucts, which has
reduced PETROPERU's net sales realization from 53 percent of gross sales in
January 1984 to 36 percent in March 1985. As a result, the quick ratio of
the Company is less than the level of 1:1 agreed uinder the Petroleum
Production Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1806-PE). The debt service
coverage was at an acceptable level of 1.6 in 1984, but lower than the
level of 2 agreed under Loan 1806-PE. As part of the supervision of the
Petroleum Production Rehabilitation Project, the Bank has recommended a
plan to the Government for gradually increasing PETROPERU's share of the
oiL revenues to enable PETROPERU to improve its financial position. This
plan has not been implemented so far and is being followed up by the Bank
as part of the ongoing dialogtue with the Government under Loan 1806-PE.



- 16 -
Organization and Management
48.       The Center was established as an autonomous organization under
the Civil Code, allowing it to have participation from private as well as
public sector organizations; a Supreme Decree of the President of Peru
signed on February 27, 1985 has recognized it as a non-profit entity for
tax purposes. The Center has a General Assembly which includes representa-
tives of the following seven founding public and private institutions:
ITINTEC (the National Institute for Technological Development), CONADE (the
National Development Corporation), PETROPERU (the National Petroleum
Company), ELECTROPERU (the national holding company for electric power
companies), Banco Industrial, Sociedad Nacional de Industrias (the National
Association of Private Industries), and Sociedad de Mineria y Petroleo (the
Association of Private Mining and Petroleum companies). These organiza-
tions have indicated that their representatives to the Assembly would be
high-level officials of those institutions. Other parties could also
become members in future at the discretion of the General Assembly.
Managing directors of several major companies have supported the
establishment of the Center, and have expressed their willingness to second
staff to work in the Center. There is at present a five-member Board of
Directors (Consejo Directivo) which is elected by the General Assembly
every five years. Agreement has been reached that the Board of Directors
would always have at least one representative each from PETROPERU and
ITINTEC (Section 6.01 (f) of the Draft Loan Agreement). Further, it is
expected that at least one of the remaining three members would be from the
private sector. The Director-General of the Center will attend the Board
meetings but will have no voting rights. The Board will be responsible for
formulating policies to implement the decisions of the General Assembly
concerning the operations of the Center and supervising the use of funds.
The Director-General of the Center will report to the Board for policy and
other matters. Regarding administrative and implementation aspects,
however, he will consult with PETROPERU's Central Manager of Industrial
Operations.
49.       As noted, the Center and PETROPERU will enter into a management
contract which would define the scope of assistance that PETROPERU would
provide to the Center. Inter alia, the management contract would state
that PETROPERU would:
(a) provide the Center with legal, procurement, personnel,
billing and other administrative support services;
(b) establish the Energy Conservation Department (ECD) within
PETROPERU to work with the Center and provide one department
head and two division chiefs for ECO--one for the Technical
Division and the other for the Economics and Administration
Division -- along with four energy specialists, one computer
specialist, and two support staff;
(c) provide the Center with goods and seivices procured under
the Bank loan; and



- 17 -
(d) allocate in its budget the necessary amounts for carrying
out (a) and (b), estimated in current dollars as follows:
1985, US$150,000 equivalent; 1986, US$350,000 equivalent;
1987, US$370,000 equivalent; 1988, US$390,000; and 1989,
US$400,000.
50.       Under this contract, PETROPERU will also be responsible for
selecting personnel and staff, and provide the Center with qualified
technical and other services through its ECD personnel supplemented by
personnel seconded from industrial plants to the Center. An outline for
the management contract was discussed during negotiations and the contract
will be finalized shortly by the Center, incorporating the Bank's
comments. Signing of the management contract between the Center and
PETROPERU, satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness
of the Loan Agreement (Section 7.01 (b) of the Draft Loan Agreement).
51.       The Director-General was appointed in March 1985, following the
Supreme Decree referred to in para 48. He has been seconded by
ELECTROPERU. The department head and the division chiefs of ECD referred
to in (para 49) are expected to be appointed by July 31, 1985.
Subsequently, a technical advisor, with qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Bank, will be appointed to help the management of the
Project to: (i) review on the institutional framework; (ii) formulate a
training program; (iii) prepare a short-list of consulting firms for the
execution of the energy audits; (iv) prepare letters of invitation to seek
proposals from the consulting firms; (v) evaluate the proposals received
and recommend the selection of the consulting firms for carrying out energy
audits; (vi) select the industrial plants to be audited; (vii) control
costs and schedules; (viii) supervise and coordinate the work of consulting
firms; (ix) organize seminars, publications and promotional campaigns; and
(x) help prepare national energy conservation and rationalization
legislation. The Technical Adviser will be appointed by September 30, 1985
(Section 3.04 (c) of the Draft Loan Agreement). Establishment of ECD, and
the appointment of the head of ECD and two division managers, will be
conditions of effectiveness (Section 7.01(c) of the Draft Loan Agreement).
It was agreed that in the absence of the Director-General, the head of ECD
will act as Director-General (Section 3.04 (i) of the Draft Loan
Agreement). It has also been agreed that if the position of the
Director-General remains vacant for 180 days, the Government would take
necessary measures to fill it on a permanent basis (Section 3.04 of the
Draft Guarantee Agreement).
Project Execution
52.       Three consulting firms or consortia of firms are expected to be
hired for energy audits and training, with each one of them dealing with
one of the following groups of industries: (i) chemicals, fertilizers,
tire, paint, paper and pulp, textiles, breweries, sugar, rice milling,
flour mills, fish meal and saw mills; (ii) metallurgical industries
(including concentrators and smelters of copper, zinc, lead and silver),



- 18 -
foundries, iron pelletizing and steel; and (iii) cement, glass ceramics,
bricks and refractories. If necessary, the same firm or consortium could
be engaged to audit more than one group of industries. These firms or
consortia, and the local staff working with ECD are expected to audit about
150 industrial and mining companies including approximately two very large
(multi-plant), 20 large, 50 medium and 78 small enterprises over a period
of three years.  ECD will provide billing service for the Center to allow
it to recover costs of the audits. Two audits of very large companies
would be undertaken as demonstration audits. ks initial payment for the
audits, the companies will provide two persons each on secondment for two
years. The remaining costs of the audits will he reimbursed to the Center
after one or more of the recommended investments have been implemented.
The other 148 audits would be carried out on the following basis. In the
first year, to get the audit program off to a good start while testing the
market response, the plants selected for audit would he charged only a
portion of the audit costs, with the rest of the audit costs on those
plants to be recovered after one or more of the recommended investments are
made by them to realize energy savings. As the audit program gets
increasing response from the second year onwards, the Center would recover
full cost in the course of energy audits (Section 3.04 of the Draft Project
Agreement). Most audits of small enterprises are expected to be completed
by local staff trained under foreign specialists. Further, in addition to
the audits and related work, the Project will include an Incer.tives Study
for Energy Savings and Rationalization in the Industrial, Commercial and
Transportation Sectors that will be carried out by September 30, 1986, with
the help of consultants acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.07 of the Draft
Loan Agreement).
53.      By early 1986, ECD is expected to have a permanent staff of eight
professionals and two support staff. Of these, three professionals--the
department head and two division chiefs--will be appointed by PETROPERU by
July 31, 1985 as a condition of loan effectiveness. Four other
professionals from PETROPERU as well as 10 professionals seconded by public
and private companies (other than PETROPERU) would be assigned to ECD
within six months from the hiring of the Technical Adviser, or within six
months of the date of effectiveness, whichever period ends earlier, and the
computer specialist will be assigned by PETROPERU to ECD within nine months
of loan effectiveness (Section 3.04 (b) of the Draft Loan Agreement and
Sections 2.02 and 2.04 of the Draft Project Agreement). The two
secretaries will be assigned to ECD by PETROPERU within sixty days of loan
effectiveness (Section 3.04 (c) of the Draft Loan Agreement). Further, by
the time the first seven professionals from PETROPERU are in place, the ECD
would also use the services of 10 professionals seconded by major public
and private companies to the Center for at least two years for gaining
on-the-job training while working with foreign experts. If required, in
the second year, four more permanent staff would be recruited for ECD by
PETROPERU. At the end of the first two years, when the first group of
seconded personnel return to their parent organizations, possibly to become
energy managers, a second group of 10 professionals would he seconded from
public and private companies. In this context, the Government would



- 19 -
require public sector companies to second at least six professionals
(Section 3.01 of the Draft Guarantee Agreement); and the Sociedad Nacional
de Industrias and the Sociedad Mineria y Petroleo (which are associations
of private companies) have informed the Bank of their willingness to
persuade private firms to second at least four professionals. It was also
agreed that the consulting firms to assist ECD to carry out the Project
would be hired by PETROPERU within six months from the hiring of the
Technical Adviser, or within six months of the date of loan effectiveness,
whichever period ends earlier (Section 3.06 of the Draft Loan Agreement and
Section 2.02 of the Draft Project Agreement). It is expected that the
consulting firms would start work early in 1986.
54.       The Project will be Implemented over a five-year period, of which
four years will be after all the foreign consulting firms start the work.
On this basis, the Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1989. By that time, adequate personnel would have been trained in Peru to
continue the energy conservation work without foreign specialists.
Agreement was reached with PETROPERU and the Center that they will review,
at the request of the Bank and before the closing of the loan account, the
continued need for the Center, taking into account: (i) the capability of
other local entities to carry out energy audits; and (ii) the progress made
in energy savings in the industrial sector and the prospects for such
savings in the residential and commercial buildings, and the transportation
sectors (Section 3.09 of the Draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.05 of the
Draft Project Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing Plan
55.       The total cost of carrying out the Project and its operations
during 1985-89 is estimated at about US$6.1 million equivalent, including
US$4.0 million equivalent in foreign exchange. The cost estimate includes
p1iystcal and price contingencies, and working capital. The Project cost
was estimated on the basis that about 165 man-months of foreign consultancy
service (including the service of technical adviser), would be required to
execute the Project. The local staff of the Project would increase
gradually from 11 to 25. Of the final total local staff, ten would be on
secondment from private and public sector companies and would not have to
be paid for under the Project. In addition to using seconded staff to
reduce the operating costs under the Project, the Center would charge a fee
for the services under the Project. The Center is expected to generate
about US$2.5 million in fees during 1985-89. Pro-forma sources and uses of
funds statements for 1985-89 are attached as Annex IV.
56.       It is proposed that IBRD finance all foreign costs excluding
interest during implementation and commitment fees, which together with the
principal repayments, would be absorbed by PETROPERU; PETROPERU would
finance all local costs except for local costs of consultants which will be
covered under the Bank loan. Of the fees collected by the Center for
energy audits and training, the initial US$50,000 equivalent will be
retained by the Center and the rest will be passed on to PETROPERU towards



- 20 -
covering the cost of its services to the Center. During neRotiations, the
Government confirmed the tax deductible status of any outside contribution
to the Center. The Government has also confirmed that the equipment to be
imported for the Project to help carry out energy audits and to help
develop the data bank will be exempt from duties and taxes. Agreement was
reached with PETROPERU that it will provide the funds needed for the
Project (Section 3.01 (a) of the Draft Loan Agreement). PETROPERU's budget
allocation of US$150,000 to ECD for the first year of project
implementation is a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 7.01 (c) of
the Draft Loan Agreement). The following table shows the financing plan:
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Foreign     Local      Total
Revenues from Audit and Training Fees    -             0.4        0.4
IBRD                                      4.0           -         4.0
PETROPERU                                  -           1.7        1.7
Total                                4.0          2.1       6.1
=:=           =         =
57.       Retroactive financing of up to US$300,000 is proposed for
payments made after December 1, 1984, to meet the initial costs of the
Technical Aeviser and foreign training of key management staff (Para III of
Schedule I of the Draft Loan Agreement).
Use of Loan Funds
58.       The loan will be made to PETROPERU of Peru which will use the
proceeds of the loan exclusively for procuring goods and services for the
Project.
Procurement and Disbtursement
59.       The technical advisor and the consultant firms, or consortia
thereof, would be selected in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants (Section II of Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The firms or consortia for the energy audits will be selected after
inviting proposals from a short-list of firms satisfactory to the Bank.
The proposals would be evaluated on the basis of criteria to be agreed with
the Bank. Further, until local firms develop expertise in energy auditing,
the Government would allow public sector firms to contract directly with
the Center for carrying out the audits (Section 3.03 of the Draft Guarantee
Agreement).
60.       In view of the specialized nature and limited availability of the
equipment for energy audits and data processing, the need for its early
delivery, the small estimated cost of individual items, and the



- 21 -
impossibility of their useful grouping, limited international bidding (LIB)
would be used for procurement of all goods. Their total cost (excluding
contingencies) is estimated at about US$1.0 million. Goods would be
procured after soliciting prices from suppliers from at least three Bank
Group eligible countries. Procurement provisions are described in Section
I of Schedule 4 of the Draft Loan Agreement.
61.       The Bank loan would be disbursed against 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for equipment, materials, and training, and 100 percent of
consultant services. Loan disbursement is expected to take about four and
a half years, running from mid-1985 through end-1989. The Closing Date for
the Loan will be June 30, 1990. A revolving fund special account of
US$400,000 will be established for the Project (Section 2.02 (b) and
Schedule 5 of the Draft Loan Agreement).
Reporting and Auditing
62.        The Center and ECD would maintain records adequate to monitor
project implementation and would submit quarterly progress reports in a
form acceptable to the Bank. The Center and ECD would maintain accounts
satisfactory to the Bank for all expendittures incurred under the Project.
The Center's and PETROPERU's annual financial statements (income statement,
balance sheet and statement of changes in financial position) would be
audited bv independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank, and the audited
statements along with the report of the auditor submitted to the Bank
within four months of the end of the financial year (Sections 4.01 (b) of
the Draft Project Agreement, and 5.01 (b) of the Draft Loan Agreement).
Further, FCD would maintain separate accounts for expenditures for which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan account on the basis of statements
of expendituire, and audit of this accotunt will be included in the audit of
PETROPERU's financial statements (Section 5.01 (c) of the Draft Loan
Agreement). Further, PETROPERU shall ensure that the independent auditor
will provide a separate opinion as to whether the proceeds of the Loan
withdrawn in respect of such expenditure have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided (Section 5.01 (c) of the Draft Loan Agreement).
Beaiefits and Risks
63.       This Project would be the second major program aimed at energy
conservation in the industrial sector in Perti; the first one being the
Petroleum Refineries Engineering Project of PETROPERU (Loan 2117-PE), which
is being implemented satisfactorily.  The energy audits and studies to be
implemented under the Project are expected to identiFv economically
attractive energy conservation and rationalization projects. The economic
viability of the energv conservation program was analyzed using average
figures for investment and savings. The viability of each one of the major
projects will be rev.iewed subsequently under detailed feasibility studies
before investment decisions are taken. As discussed (para 34), the
expected total cost of implementing these projects is estimated to be
between US$56 million and USS88 million over an extended period and part of



- 22 -
it is expected to be financed under the existing lines of credit with
COFIDE (the State Development Finance Corporation) and Banco Industrial.
The economic rate of return of these investments was computed using the
midpoint of the range--US$72 million. These projects are expected to
result in a net annual saving of about US$44 million and yield an average
return of about 64 percent, as shown in the following table:
Economic Analysis
(March 1985 USS million)
Economic
Average           Rate of
Annual           Return
Investment          Saving            (%)
Conservation
Short-term                        21                 24              111
Medium-term                        51                 20              34
Total                      72                 44               64
64.       Short-term conservation investments, consisting mainly of better
housekeeping measures and some minor retrofitting, are expected to save
about 135,000 toe per year, valued at about US$24 million (using fuel oil
economic price of US$170 per ton, and I ton fuel oil = 0.96 toe). Economic
rate of return of these investment is estimated at 111 percent.
Medium-term investments, consisting of major retrofits and process
modifications, are expected to result in an additional saving of about
115,000 toe, valued at about US$20 million.
65.       The Project is expected to have a strong impact on institutional
development in the industrial sector, through training of managers for
industrial energy conservation and rationalization. Staff seconded from
local companies to the Center would receive classroom training at the
Project's training facilities; this would be supplemented with
on-the-job training which they would obtain by participating with the
foreign consultants in the energy audits. It is expected that the seconded
staff would return to their parent companies as energy managers and would
be able to disseminate energy conservation and rationalization practices to
their colleagues. In addition, the Project would also have a program to
train staff of local consulting firms as energy auditors. The consulting
firms would be charged a training fee that would ensure 100 percent cost
recovery. It is expected that by the time the Project is completed, Peru
wculd have a large pool of trained energy auditors, thus reducing its
reliance on expatriates for future energy audits.
66.       The principal risks facing the Project relate to the quality of
personnel and the managerial and institutional problems common to new



- 23 -
undertakings, and the willingness of industrial companies to have energy
audits performed and to pay for them. The first risk is being minimized
through the management contract with PETROPERU, which will provide
management and other services to the Center. The second risk would be
minimized by the Center's promotional campaigns, films, and seminars to
educate the people about the benefits of energy conservation and
rationalization; and its cost recovery procedures allowing for less than
full cost recovery for the initial auditp. The Project poses no
environmental risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between PETROPERU and the Bank: draft
Project Agreement between the Center and the Bank; the draft Guarantee
Agreement between the Republic of Peru and the Bank, and Report and
Recommendattons of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors.
68.       These draft agreements conform to the normal pattern for loans
for technical assistance projects. The main features of the draft Loan,
Project and Guarantee Agreements are referred to in the text of this report
and are listed in Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness would be:
(i) signing of a management contract between the Center and PETROPERU; (ii)
creation of the Energy Conservation Department (ECD) by PETROPERU; (iii)
appointment by PETROPERU of the head of ECD and two division chiefs for
ECD; and (iv) confirmation of the budget allocation by PETROPERU of
US$150,000 equivalent for the Project for the fiscal year 1985 (Section
7.01 of the Draft Loan Agreement).
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement oF the Banlk.
PART xfI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 18, 1985
Washington, DC



-24 -
T A  L t    3A                                Page  1  of  6
S.                     - SOCUIL 1NDICATOU RSA DA
IMST                     (HST REINt   BETRAY)f
0b            h  RITUI  lb         "ID    t  a             mac.
19  9 TllAT _LAT. ANSRICA  CAR               CROW
A ftoS Sb SO
rOTAL                              1283.2      1235.2      1283.2
AGRICULTCRAL                        204 .       299.3      203.2
aor M   CAPS CM)                       30.0        340. 0     1170.0             20e6.2                  243.6
ro~w      Wm
EILOCRANS OF COAL  QUIVALENT)       '33.0       707.0      807.0              1407.6                  130.3
ECI'UATIU AM VITAL STAUTESM
PDPULATTON.NIDYEAA  (THOASS)   9665.0         1203.0    17031.0
URAR   POPLATION (CZ O TOTAL)        46.3        59.5       63.9               65.9                     47.8
POPULATION PROJECTtMS
POPULATtON IN YEAR 2000 (HILL)                            26.3
STATtONARY POPULATION (MILL)                              50.0
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACNC                              2110
poPUATION DES l
PER Sq  c.                          7.5        tO.0       12.9               33.6                     N.0
PEt SQ. KM. ACRI. LAND            3t.6        42.9        54.4               93.2                    t57.2
POPLtATION ACE STRUCTUWE (Z)
0-1A TlS                          43.6       44.3        42.4               40.1                     31.9
15-64 YRS                         52.0        51.7        54.t               55.8                     bO. 9
45 AND ABOVE                        6.4         3.9        3.5                4.1                      7.2
POPULATlON ZOVfI RATe (I)
TOTAL                               2.5         2.3        2.6                 2.3                      1.6
URBAN                               5.2         5.3        3.5                 3.7                     3.6
CRUDE RrRTN RATE (PER TIOUSI)        4*35        4L.5       36.3                31.5                     25.0
CRUDE DEATU RATE (PER TNOUS)         18.3        14.6       11.1                 e.1                      9.1
CitOSS REPROOUCTION RATE              3.2         3.0        2.5                 2.0                     1.7
FAMILY FLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNIAL 'TS) 
USEIIS (. OF MARRIED WiC).N)
PoW Am UunrIS
INDEX OF FO0O PROD. PER CAPtTA
s1969-71-100)                       96.0       102.0        87.0               I13.0                   106.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALOIUES (: OF aSQUIRENTS)        103.0       102.0       99.0               11t.3                    129.6
PROTEINS (CRAPS PE OAT)           67.0         63.0       60.0               67.9                     92.3
OF WHICH APNDAL AND PULSE         29.0        26.0        ZS.0/e             34-1                    34.6
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE          37.9       21.2          8.9                5.3                    10.4
LIFE EXPECT. AT *IRIT  (YEARS)       47.5        53.4        5t9                64.6                    67.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (.i1 THOIS)      162."       119.7        85.4               62.6                     71.4
ACCESS To SArE WATER (2POP)
TOTAL                              14.6        3t 0       48.31d             644.
LXIAN                             30.2         58.0       60.67d-             77.8
RURAL                               0.8         9.0        25.07i             44.3
ACCESS TO r1CRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                          36.0        34.0ld             54.6
URBANI                                         52.0        51.07o             69.8
RURAL                                          16.0          ..               29.8                       -
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          19to.0       120.0      1390.0              1176.0                  1094.6                            a
POP. PER HISING FERSOH            2210O.)     720.o       690.Ofd           1012.2                    762.5
POP. PER HOSPITAL BO
roTAL                             400.0       450.0      520. Oc           477.0                    334.0
URBAN                            260.010      520.0      4o.o7               667i5                   216.0
RURAL                                        260e 0      6O s6ro.o7         19I2.6-
ADMISSIONS PE  HOSPITAL  ED M                    19.0       23.0tc             27.2                     20-0
inomm
AVERAGE SIZE oF NOF  ULD
TOTrAL                              4.9         4 8/         -                  ..                       *-
URM                                 4. 8         s7          .                  ..
VERACE NO. oF PERSORS/R0Uq
TOrAL                               2. I        *39 
URBAN                               2.0         I
RDRAL                               2.7         2 
ACCUSS TO ILEC. CE OF DOr   Ima)
TOTAL                              26          32.01,
=DUL                                *           Z.



-25-
TABLE *A                                      ANNEX  I
Page 2 of 6
PEW         ~ -   SCIAl. KUSI EAtR  ST   US?
Mm,                          RUlES~NM I  NERP ORIUtI AUAaIDf
MOST                      ClT 301 3Ias         ) 
idb      iib                    tAT  MR CA IR CAM                 1
ADJUSTS WD OLLNZNT RATIOS
PIL"ARI  TrOAL                    8U.0       105.0       112.0               103.0                    102.2
MALE                    93.0       t13.0       115.0              106.3                    107.2
-  MALz                 n.o         97.0       103.0              103.5                     97.9
SECOWDAY: TOTAL                   13.0        30.0         56.0             4*0.0                      56.
MALE                    16.0        33.0        60.0               33.5                     63.4
rFrALz                  13.0        26.0        53.0               1.2                     46.9
VOCATtONSL (2 OF SECOSRDA)           19.9        17.1        13.1ld             34.0                     22.4
PuPM.-TEACU RATIO
PRIMART                            34.0        33.0        3.0                30.7                     24.7
SECONDART                          12.0        17.0        29.0/4             16.7                    22.t
ADULT LITERACY RAIZ (X1              61.0        72.Si      90.0               79.5                     69.7
PASSEIaZR CARS/TROUSAD MPP            8.2        18.0        19.4/c             45.6                     32.9
RADIO RECEIVUAS/1TOUS1AJ  POP       113.8       141.7       165.6              228.2                    163.5
TV RECEZVERSITCRMD For                3.4        30.8        51.2              108.3                    124.2
MEWSPAPER (-DAILY   IRAL
rlrrERlSr) CZRCILATZOw
PER THOUSAND FOPULATION               ..       129.         S.S/c              64.1                     96.3
CrNOa ANUAL ATIEHDACZ/CAPITA          6.7                                        2.9                      2.9
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TNOUS          3023.0      3710.0      5076.0
FEULE CPERCENT)                    21.2        20.8        23.4               24.8                     34.3
ACFICULTURCE fPERCFN)              12.3        48.0        39.2               31.3                     40.7
IIIDUSTR  (PERCENT)                19.6        18.4        18.2              23.9                     23.4
PARTICIPATION RAT! (PERCENT)
rOTAL                              31.3        28.9        29.1               31.3                     42.0
-ALE                               9.6        1.         45.1              49.6                     55.2
FEWAL                             313.2        12.0        14.0               14.8                     29.1
ECONO4IC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.5         1.7         1.5                1.4                      0.9
[Cm DESWIOTDI
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
41OREST 5S OF RaUSEICLOS           39.0
!ICNZEST 20S OF HOUSUEOLDS         64.         61.0..
..nwEsT 201 OF OrOIJSELDS           2.5         1.9..
LODWEST 01 OF HOUSEIOLDS           8.0         7.            ..  
POVERTY TASMT 30OM
ESTIMATED SSAUTE MVERTY IRMCOE
*    f OuSS PER CAPITA)
43A                                 ..         ..        235.0/c            289.8
ltilUL                               ..                    go. o.7c          184.5                       .
ESTIN^A   RELUAIVC POVERTY INCOnE
LEVIEL resS PER CAPITA)
CRA84                                ..                   293.0/C            319.3
RURAL                                .,                   200.07;           312.1                     409.0
V                  ESTIPATECD POP. BELOW AISaLtTrE
POVERTY INCOM! LVECL (')
URBAN                                ..          ..        49.0c,
RURAL                                ..
-or AVAILAQE
*oT APP ICAPLE
It0 T C5S
la  The group  .v.rqeu for much tndicator are populatlontaighctd aritltic means. Cwerqa  of cuntries aq  the
IndLcacors deponds 0n swa.aabIlty of data u to Lunot u.nforct
!b Unless other-ie noced. -Data for 1960- refer co any yar be-cn. 1959 and 1961  'Daze for 1970- b-ecn 1969 and
1971: and data for -Most Recent Etctc-n between 1979 and 1961.
lc  1977: Id 197': f. 1962: /f 1964; j 1972; /h Pereonal lIcme within taor force.
"my 19n3



we-  eltIw   ll e1 A.    -       elb PPPPAP   SWeSfl AR              P.i
"ie      A. j   teNdod-   ti-tie  d  Will -Inset  pod                "aa  q
shlld ceip   _eaz   IssistpdS  as-P.s6   i.q.0 p .b
- i-edep esstele  e - l.n-~-  ~A  ti          dss opPPIS e d s  ieMlW
jla. lse  P15 te.    (tl                p        opdl  fleeS  IC   M.fl j- s-
P- -1-2- ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~  I"Inee-- Ausie'ale. ses e-s, AI-e AtId-
.111 -n                                                       p..  letai   e.lesseesq senes.ad  as eels -            Pi  n-in p.deI
eeie,eist .eeq 'see eteneep  niseseho   .                                eteesite~~~~~op   elq..le    Wie   ea    *Pstaae lieis  widee  il-     --,-
-tnIeee~a    esi  Iest'estlsssneedl..a
-alp sA. .- A.51   51l ient  -illni ab                       s n-l
11   = :1_Z!_Mn   7.1= 110MM    dQ.".ej  ,                                        aeiitese- d,i-   le,el5   suIi hed-
I-a-a                                                             eil  1.   eebai   i          el          ,
Wee. eqs= j pdni.   t1 iP-ee   -"qt   .aaaeq  J.    SII yneeab                                        Owlr l     P-S ball 'AInI  -ni       It  -as p-tinesp   alPsn.-
- '-ea  -eeqs - (s~i        lii  leWs nsel  laeaj *~le~neeaniet-ned Is-I  -4  stll-  -a~Il u -t ww    J I-es   -     -%i
A- nni   -elo   b   e        nb Pda,lll  I~            q Al -esni
*                                                                                             elileebet                          inA.P-n-eof  -q   n-a   .  pete,ad  m   A.  ddddi, s  nA.aee li53  enldle-
-1 p-                                                                                              Z~~~~~~~~~~~te   .5s-a   1Pleteseeisii~ el-itl      - 
p-        "M&  tI- i `d-    e sect-il          "       ..&                             estini  dIn  'eeeaP          eehiseii -pIe  slce   lee a .e..P
- 5535  eqet ela see  de  Iei-t.3 Pet-es-e-sedislil                        ~            lapelam    a.as.als   5.'ids                  ..ta... V. Als.  lse   s
A list...se   -en .ipee-mtsi-IIsieIee   csei  i
ste   511seeLIt  b.155i  5.e~  leqteeee dd  sesieiasiltee-pn
A. Aes.-s-                     P sJnaliislae   Jqi-  iea.aStestla,'edieecle-seeiwe*    ilslesea sen   niei
*l~i  111  ec cii %ss-l~edeiiesL.  1.si- apitlsab   n..t:. e-  i-l-iea   setaIap-                                            3t se-  dIel .-  1  Ipe
pieNi est  *useeslalslese'a  sib   aelitaat.e. .  a . ..sepe........Wliel   eiien..n. 5s~-iiees   se
a. -   -- ft- sele   Iei       -elssan   a- -a-  an- ais s-sd.
~~~I    P---"  -A                                                        Al-,~~~~~~~~~~-eei   se-1- l.ifei-.-   i-eeesteqpIis3te
-1- mq   ~       ebiatj  -e   I  ae              ia    iew        se-ise -,                                   I-.is. eeels   ia   lesei      eeedale
en-pi   ~~l U   --  gelelJ.  Peese   at-lsptee   eIaIse                                                                                                              3
lespi-ad    -Pnas   ~sa5ee  5e5e4  idie5il-I   p  flteefli                           a-  lSltme  -  tiple  epan.asaeet  ilen   Iteliaalit
eridee ses en. - (el spas   senet  ase  nlSleisI   aa.e.e.   aaisbaeee  Isneid   histas S' 55  etib eItliPeisl M                      le
-seI.-, ..eI"5 Iesettlaln1-a --                 e e75     s.'                       -   eq   i  eeeelelepp  aq    ien  -e--eliei-s  sa
1-ateelIL   esle   ieetsetltltt5baP-    5-s-it aba =Isdtn72e  jl   i     l  Il   nltd
pa seaq  s5 lleIeie  5    5.etelei- eeeseha  les I a. ila  11                     epea  em-    Sesepi-s      pes   eiee    i. ta
n,~ ~   ~    ~ ~~eleei    -teceiseS                                                                           .e    itP5sl   ssstettle
ene-i   t iasen  eqse   neae-      see  sI-aee   hi-ess  e-e    it-i   -e--s   b    ti.st  tne-ts-eilsdee   idlee
.lee  5e ettdlelel - ee   i se  eeAtse  e5      .                                        ..... .I It.."s)   s-15-ti31-taaas   elen
seell.tnsese  a  pceeit baaiel  la-as  l.sen-isese53esl  i-y  ele,-  ell    sseiep-s-  t-il etlene
'lId   n-a -eeieiea  I eel*' it  - a-It-lapieeltlqelees saniesi el5 *e-Is-lull  ee  tsi-itli  ast-ttfl 55 lcillbaba dee
-eelia~e editi.  -I' Is'sa--eeie  issi  .eas- tIS -ittasaes sel isael eisehP                   .
peP %e115511.eielilaies  epll.eee anetes t-ilis 5115 nsa telece iae.'                                       15i1 iii  FeC15511 es-illtlbeItslbab
1.t   ei~aIliesseei-mlladaiet   ea  .e   acSldleet   s.-31ese                                                           anQnnee5.pltA                i  '35 
d                       --Mele.eldlsSe selep.s.'a  .- -   e.lel   lii 1le  eIlt-e--                                                eit..iie  eq
eleses  tl.eee1-s~eicisee    ea.-ielle                                             eC      aCsea        nstsl s -lest.tl   tei.l                        ai
et. ts,lees Ileasle -e t.sIt.esehttileisslelel!3aes-saila.         SIlteealsecpec    eilleSe5Iel 31a. -eeePIelsePeI
-:sr  G."       ~          sll5  eileeei   -a.plssies  st  llaplse    aessei   ele
- ltieaealaal                                                 e.pel.ee-   ste   Iis  .eWsele    esase.PeS
ll5  nesaeaa  l.aells IslSes  e  in.   -is   1iaee  eetea                          elieaI   sellelsee   e    sel                                    W t-elln.etsle
.Z. peeee  l-i  le lIb -IeastlleiW                eeIIls  alebl  slttsen1e A-A-iseaI                                                             -te-i- -    eeI -sp
At                                                    ..w~~~~~~~e555  Il 55-   i-l_ P-  ees lebested -s.ft     a1   epe    ellaePe    as-  a'.e..l        .   ......
9     jo    C     aSvT                                           WOOMA~~~~~~~~~~~ijidS   s-el S6 M TeleB  e APIe R           1lslesqs5Inleeallle
I   XHNNV                                                         -             9z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ils  seslsiltssl  saIllil  ilIls'  iie  ees



-27 -
upalata.: 17.5  1U. MM d  1W)                                                                                         it  * Ot 
or pM Caital 1g IJS (l1w
*~~~~~~~~~An _I Qb Mm (U)
iatrleat                                      061111I  18 at        *        a.                           1                        kejeue
Q-w   Mm)                                                     - 
IWO b           1C3    l19    189    191    1[in           to      1i       iO    19W    1w
-  otmetic: Iweai.cg                21 *,0Z             4.8     44      3.7     3J      1.0        -4.9     2.0      5.2    4.      'j
lt*ulwm                              1.752J            44       4.     4.5    11.9    2.4            9.7     4.0     8.0    5.0      5.0
IamUy * tiCd                        $A,A               -..7     5.5    5.6   -3.0    0.1           -12.0    2.0    4.3      4.5     3.7
swvscm                              11,2               -IA.0    3J      4.7     4.0     13          4-1      1.6     5.4    '.2     4.6
Cqin                                  Ia, 1.562A         -5.      3.5     7.7     L9      2.6         -4.9    -Z.1    4.9    3.6      4.0
o_. b        ,                         3u.5             -IIJ     4.8    39.8    19.    41A           -21.9    3.8     0.0    0.0  eJ
ts of Wsl                             4,dm0.             10.6    15.9  -10.       I      12.J        -15.8   12.3     1.5    5.1    1.8
Iumu of aWm                           4,74.4            -31.0    10Q    42.    47.6       3.2       -21.2   -1.0      L.b   313        .0
G;a   tigml e ai'1 p                   1,521.8            3.      0.      4.0  -35J   -L.            -9.2    41.3    12.5    U.3      7.6
DW Datel                                2M03             30.2   63J   10.    173.2    1L             -       -       -       .       -
_im3u IUt7                              09.             1%.3   20.       0.7   6L9   697A          1.5.1    -         -       -1.
am of Al at tm gm  Cl)                      _                      1   zmms (2)
(at Omint Mm)I                                    (at cms_ 1970 MeI
1970    1975   1MI     195    19le 1                              97S4 1054019 5 80 195-90
'hUE s_ tic h k                                                                                         s.0    I.S   -0.8       4.3
ticlgr                                  16.3   I.       7.9    9.0    9.1                           0.6     0.2     1.5     5.0
1v&int   & min                           34.0   36.    402    37J    36.7                             5.1    2.6   -2.2       3.9
Sorvicm                                  46.0    483    42.0    43.0   43.5                           6.5     1.4   -0.2      '.6
i onaptus                                1.1    890    79.0    8I.0   61.5                            53      1.7   -0.7      4.3
tam      1 Ow.2l1 17.3.                          10A      5.1    I2    16.0                          17.8   -0.4    16.7      6.
1P         of       1          7 lOJt   IDA  23                  MA                                  -7J8     64  l.b         2.8
!tot t                                   14.0    1.5        2    2A      21.3                         6.0   -3.6   -0.7       3.3
Qtua htii3nl Imiq                        15.9    9.J    17.4   13.1    14                              1.7   -2.4  -b.7       9.6
PA a 2 of CW
1975   IWO    LW2
- 7 1Dl Ig
0arrt v-_                                                30.5   5160    45.1
Qaxrt bp_diia.e                                          314    53.2  4c.5
saph  1.) orc l      -)it                                .0.9     0.8 -.
CApital    u-                                             8.5    9.6    I1.0
famiw  HVCi                                               53      2.2     7j
197045 19M5 4104   118540
or Ea%ch gas CZ)                                          4.      0.8   -1.2      0.
OrbrCqiia QChr Ua (Z)                                     1.    -1.6   -3.5       2.6
M                                                         3.S    9.1    70.0    3.4
1iu    Saf4q hi.                                         0.      LI      0.2    0.3
impt   Masezi                                             0.3   -2.3      0.9    0.9
fI  m *t WeM:          a    _Wll aa M i O  M a i&M   iD   f J ; iOf -   M c    di_.h
re Pm,jo,d yj    a    s    wc_.
ICc Cin1 _    it     -a .
UAC1D
mtay 15. 1964



-28  -                                         AM  I
aIautim: 17.5 CuLlIim. od 19t 2)                                                                                 Sf     f 6
2W pM Coaga: OlS l.DO (1M)
(at Cmeat   1910 Ms)
rniicato,                               OaiLU   Ms me                      kbaul                  ratinA             towm
1911 1919    HID    H9          H       195    19W.    J        195    197
iniL Du n
11=ba m      K                          3250.0            14.5    273    -9.6    -1.6    144   -16.7    L33        3.0     4.9     1.0
frqgy                                 2371.0            14.1    2A5   -14        4.6    15.2  -12.5    11.3      2.0     4.3    -5
1amfinmm                               759.0            17.6    75.6   14.1  -11.5    11.0  -33.9   23.5         6.0   L30       L
11bgcia  1wm                            3787.0           -24       6.4     4.9    3LS      3.   -27.3   -2.3       1.5    2.       4.0
food                                   359.0           -2.0    1.2   63.1    36.1  -10.7   3266   -25.1   -63    -6.9   -0.1
Iat1m                                   34.0           -47.4   -.4   101.3  -25.6    31.2   67.1         2.6     5.7    4.       4.3
l qbiiy ad               IUqai        1472.0           -17.2    35.6     01    39.6      0.5  -35.3      5.0    6.3      6.0     6.3
ts                                    LZLO92.0         -35.5   -1.9    36.9    64.5      9.5  -35.5      3.0    0.1      34      3.1
-.t Price I1m                             73.0            57.0    51.0  100.0    W.7    75.0    77.9   03.5   90.6   100.2   1.13
1.a  fticeXM                              90.             l.0    92.0   1000    93J      904    91.3    96.0   1A    1U3.0   123.5
1 of TM   Tm                              00.0            70.4    8L3    100.0    903    83.0   853.    87.0   37.7        .7    90.2
c*ousizim Of  mbmls mo CZ)             _        m     a1 A    z    (1)
(at Ozut Prim)                         (at CiWntt 190 PrkF  )
1970    1973    1930    1133    1990         1970-73 * 197540 19345  193340
ym-                                        100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0           -6.1      Lf6    1.       2.1
qti-7                                     97.0    92.0   78.7    00.1    78.0             -7.5     9.1     3.2     0.7
Ihadacuaz                                  3.0     L0    21.3    16.9    2Lo              183    61.2   -4.0       3.0
100.0   10 0   1o.O   10.0               22.3  -1.3   -3.7       3.6
food                                             7.0    12.0    14.9    10.3             6.9     1.2     1.7   -3.1
ptl_in                                          11.0    1.0      1.8     1.8            35.7   -0.7    22.0      A3
1hiy  d l                                       31.0    37.0    37.8   43.1             29.3   -3.9   -4.2       6.3
Otbas                                           51.0    50.0   45.5    4.8              15.2   -6.3    -1.4      3.2
Sbu of TW  With          e         . Of Tm with           9m  of Tm wih
1DWra eati(S)    1            1     opz GmtOi 2              Coplta  aphool  011mCZ
1970    1975    1900            1970    1975    190            1970    1975    1930
SIL1    5L6    65.9              Lg    23.0    28.6              0.5     1.0     1.4
IqiOa                                     77.3    76.9    79.7            21a6    16J    16.4              1.0    4.       0.9
* imt pLh =     mm for 1972-1975.
Kay 29. 1a4



lbpulata: 17.5 (millin, ld  1952)                                   2. A oe- -
OW  hr CMap      U1   1,250 (1916)
- MU w lAuui, DNmL a.m   AD
(mIli    US mt CRT    wim)
Aetul                          fttAjeel6
Indicator
1978     1979     1960     1961     1982          19"      1986     1963      1990
MZAICZ 07 PUI[S
B!orts oE Gods & Swvic                           an1      4143     41U        223    415            3662     4356     487      9124
Of hicb:   hmiie  PM                          19.      3491     38g6    3249    323              28B6    3459      3065     7225
Iqots oE Goods 4 Swviec                          2 46     3536     4923    601        596           4980     5212     5700    9671
O fiich: brlmilm lFM                          1601     1951     3062    3105    3791             26       2158     3124     5577
Hot Trmnf.rm                                       56      122      135       161      167           235      Wa       ZIL      278
Owrut  1cmm    iM.c                              -192      729        63   -1705   -166           -1013    -G6       -613     -269
Diret Privte Lrnw.                                25       71        27      125       418           31       30       10      sU
1x lns (Not)                                       585     668      341       89       911           14       642      765      849
Official                                         --       --        --       89      53            360      465      4W       591
Private                                          --       --       --       750      358           474      177      319      258
r    Capital                                     -336       111     3m        154     809            11i       Sb      -12     -368
C.i  in RAmmim  (--icesse)                        -C    -1579       -731      58      -132           100    -100      -150    -300
Internationl  1aI                                 263     182      2553     1969    2101            2001     2101     2251     3151
.mmerwa m Ibthe Df l im                            1.1     6.2      6.2       3.9      4.2           4.8      4.8      4.7      3.9
ELOMML CAIPrOL AND DEIr 
Gm" Disbzstma                                     843      1120     1416    2427      2300
Officialta                                        --       --       --         2       21
COWMEeaja1   1                                   236      143       232      197      251
DAL                                             111      113       107       96      122
0Lte                                            125       30      125       101     1i9
H       rccuzmaiml lam                           607      977     1184      2228    202l
Official lprt Crulira                           213      152      21i       102     5U
ISIID                                            26       61      140       76       72
Other H&Itil--al                                 13       19        58       71      113
Private                                         355      745      767      1978     1299
ternal Dbt
Debt Catmdiig & Dimbu   5d0                              5934     6169    8378       9289
Official                                       2562     m5       3158      3246     3799
Primete                                        2861     3199     3011    iI2        5490
Uniabased Dbt                                   1206     2103      1698     283      2723
Det Service
Total Debt Service PayU                           750       919     1501     2355     2154
interet                                         317      437      54        768      786
Payina  at 2 of  1!ta                            31.1      22.2    30.9    55.8    51.5
Avaerm  ltreint Bate a  Nh  los.  (1)              7.6      9.5      9.3     12.6    12.2
Official                                        6.7      6.1       7.4      8.6      9.6
Private                                         9.1     11.9      10.6    15.6      13.5
Awerqe Nanxi y of Nrw I1u  CYear.)                10.7     11.3    12.1      11.9    10.2
Official                                       11.6    14.4       15.1     16.8    15.6
Prim"e                                          9.1      9.1      10.1      8.1      7..
Ibte: A double dumb mts for "ut milabl.
J  1978-11933 e:Iie pniut  warmte ; pn IE 1964 reschwdkizug  mct incldei.
UI2ID
May 29, 1984



-  30  -                           ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
A.    STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of March 31, 1985)
Amount
Loan                                                         (less cancellations)
Number     Year            Borrower            Purpose         Bank    Undisbursed
--- US$ million ---
33 loans fully disbursed                                       570.0
1196       1976    Republic of Peru         Transport           73.3         2.5
1403       1977    Republic of Peru         Agriculture         25.0         5.4
1771       1980    Republic of Peru         Irrigation          56.0        L9.2
1806       1980    PETROPERU                Petroleum Prod.    32.5          2.6
1812       1980    Republic of Peru         Rural Develop.      15.0         7.3
1888       1980    Republic of Peru         Preinvestment        7.5         3.2
S-19        1980    SIDERPERU               Technical Asst.      5.0         3.6
1963       1981    CORPAC                  Aviation             57.5        52.0
1968       1981    COFIDE                   Industry            60.0        31.9
2018       1981    ELECTROPERU              Power               25.0        17.6
2064       1981    Central Reserve Bank  Industry               26.0        10.9
2091       1982    Republic of Peru         Transport           93.0        77.7
2117        1982    PETROPERU               Industry             5.3         2.7
2139       1982    SEDAPAL                  Water Supply        40.6        33.7
2150       1982    Republic of Peru         Agriculture         40.6        32.6
2179       1982    ELETROLIMA               Power               81.2        67.6
2195       1982    PETROPERU                Petroleum           81.2        73.5
2204       1982    Republic of Peru         Technical Asst.    10.2          1.7
2208       1982    Republic of Peru         Education           17.3        16.8
2211       1982    Republic of Peru        Health               33.5        31.8
2219       1982    Republic of Peru         Rural Develop.      30.0        18.6
2302       1983    Republic of Peru         Agriculture        130.0        85.7
2396       1984    Republic of Peru         Rural Develop.      40.0        38.8
2451       1985    Republic of Peru         Urban               82.5        82.5
2465       1985    Republic of Peru         Education           27.0        27.0
Total                                                   1,664.2
of which has been repaid                                267.2
Total now outstanding                                   1,397.0
Amount sold                            18.3
of which has been repaid            18.3                  -
Total now held by Bank                                  1,397.0
Total undisbursed                                                     746.9



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page  2of 2
B.    STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1985)
Type of
Year                Obligor                       Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1960        Industrias Reunidas, S.A.         Home Appliances   0.2        -       0.2
1960        Luren S.A. and
Ladrillos Calcareos, S.A.       Bricks             0.3       -      0.3
1960        Durisol del Peru, S.A.            Building
Materials          0.3       -      0.3
1960; 1962  Fertilizantes Sinteticos, S.A.  Fertilizers           4.1      -       4.1
1962; 1968  Cemento Andino, S.A.              Cement              2.3     0.2      2.5
1964; 1967  Cia. de Cemento Pacasmayo         Cement              1.1     0.5      1.6
1975        Southern Peru Copper Corp.        Mining             15.0      -      15.0
1978/83     Cia. de Minas Buenaventura        Mining              6.0     0.5      6.5
1980        Cia. Minera San Ignacio
de Morococha, S.A.              Mining             6.7      0.5     7.2
1981        Sogewiese                         Leasing             3.0     0.1      3.1
1981        Consorcio Energetico de           Power
Huancavelica                    Transmission       4.5       -      4.5
1982        Palmas del Espino                 Palm Oil           15.0      -      15.0
1985       S. A. Minera Regina                Mining              5.0     0.2      5.2
Total gross commitments                             63.5      2.0    65.5
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            42.0     0.6    42.6
b                      Total held by IFC                                    21.5      1.4    22.9
Total undisbursed incl.
participants' portion                             11.4      0.2    11.6



- 32-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PE?RU
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION AND RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 10 months
(b) Project prepared by: The Bank staff, consultants and the
National Energy Council of Peru.
(c) First presentation to the Bank: The project idea was presented
to the Bank in June 1983
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: November 1984
(e) Completion of Negotiations: March 1985
(f) Planned Date of Loan Effectiveness: July 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The following are special conditions of loan effectiveness:
(i)  the signing of a management contract between the Center
and PETROPERU (para 50);
(ii)  establishment of ECD in PETROPERU and the appointment of
its head and two division managers (para 51); and
(iii)  PETROPERU's budget allocation of US$150,000 to ECD for
the first year of project implementation (para 56).
(b)  The Center's Board of Directors would always have one
representative each from PETROPERU and ITINTEC (para 48).
(c)  The Technical Advisor will be appointed by September 30, 1985
(para 51).
(d)  In the absence of the Director General, the head of ECD will act
as Director-General (para 51).



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) If the position of Director General remains vacant for 180 days,
the Government would take the necessary measures to fill it on a
permanent basis (para 51).
(f) From the second year onwards, the Center would recover the full
cost of audits (para 52).
(g) An Incentives Study for Energy Savings and Rationalization in
the Industrial, Commercial and Transportation Sectors would be
carried out by September 30, 1986 (para 52).
(h) Four professionals from PETROPERU ae well as 10 professionals
seconded by private and public companies (other than PETROPERU)
would be assigned to ECD within six months from the hiring of
the Technical Adviser, or within six months of the date of
effectiveness, whichever period ends earlier, and the computer
specialist will be assigned by PETROPERU to ECD within nine
months of loan effectiveness. Two secretaries will be assigned
to ECD by PETROPERU within sixty days of loan effectiveness
(para 53).
(i) The Government would require public sector companies to second
at least six professionals to the Center (para 53).
(j) The consulting firms which would assist ECD in carrying out the
Project would be hired within six months from the hiring of the
Technical Adviser, or within six months of the date of loan
effectiveness, whichever period ends earlier (para 53).
(k) At the request of the Bank and before the closing of the loan
account, a review will be undertaken of the continued need for
the Center and the progress that has been made in energy savin'7s
in the industrial sector and the prospects for such savings in
other sectors (para 54).
(1) PETROPERU will provide the funds needed for the Project (para
56).
(m) Retroactive financing of up to US$300,000 equivalent for
payments made after December 1, 19B4, to meet the initial costs
of the Technical Adviser and foreign training of key management
staff (para 57).
(n) Until local firms develop expertise in energy auditing, the
Government would allow public sector firms to contract directly
with the Center for carrying out the audits (para 59).



- 34 -
ANNEX IV
PERU - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION AND RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
Pro Formsa Sources and Uses of Funds
(nominal USS'OOO)
Year Ending December 31             1985       1986      1987      1988     1989
SOURCES
Audit and Training Fees              -       250        700      750       800
IBRD                                80       980      1,200    1,000       740
PETROPERU                          150       350        370      390       400
Sub-toLal                    230      1,580     2,270    2,140    1,940
USES
Capital and Operating Cost         200     1,500      1,582    1,600    1,050
Working Capital                     30        80         30         -        -
Surplus Funds                        -         -        658      540       890
Total                     230      1,580     2,270    2,140    1,940
_ --                                     m_






