CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 433 BO
Project Agreement
(Third ENDE Power Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A.
DATED OCTOBER 17, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 433 BO
Project Agreement
(Third ENDE Power Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A.
DATED OCTOBER 17, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 17, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A. (hereinafter called ENDE).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Bolivia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association,
the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to six million dollars ($6,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that ENDE agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS ENDE, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the term "subsidiary" means any corporation of which at least a
majority of the outstanding voting stock shall be owned, or which shall be
effectively controlled, by ENDE or one or more subsidiaries of ENDE or by ENDE
and one or more of its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ENDE shall carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices.


﻿4
Section 2.02. ENDE shall employ consultants acceptable to the Association
and ENDE upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association and ENDE
as follows:
(a)   engineering consultants to assist ENDE in carrying out Parts A, B and
D of the Project; and
(b)   management consultants to assist ENDE in carrying out Part E of the
Project.
Section 2.03. In carrying out Parts A, B and C of the Project, ENDE shall
employ contractors acceptable to the Association and ENDE upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association and ENDE.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) ENDE undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by ENDE
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, ENDE shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) ENDE shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   ENDE: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the


﻿5
provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.07. ENDE shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ENDE shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. ENDE shall take all such action as shall be necessary to acquire
as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for the construction and operation of the facilities included in the Project and
shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ENDE
Section 3.01. ENDE shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. ENDE shall (i) at all times maintain its existence and right
to carry on operations and shall, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges
and franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business; (ii)
operate and maintain all its plants, equipment and property and from time to
time make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with
appropriate engineering, public utility, administrative and financial practices; and
(iii) at all times manage its affairs, plan its future expansion and maintain its
financial position in accordance with appropriate engineering, public utility,
administrative and financial practices.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ENDE shall
not sell, lease, transfer or assign any of its property or assets, except in the normal
course of its business, and shall not engage in any activity other than power
generation, transmission and distribution.


﻿6
Section 3.04. Any change of the Gerente General of ENDE shall be made
only after prior consultation with the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ENDE shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. ENDE shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than five months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of ENDE and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ENDE shall
take all steps necessary or desirable to obtain and maintain electric tariffs designed
to produce revenues sufficient to provide it with a rate of return of nine per cent
(9%) in accordance with the provisions of the Electricity Code.
(b)   If, in the opinion of the Association and DINE, the gross book value
of ENDE's fixed assets and the amount of accumulated depreciation thereon
becomes unrealistic as a result of currency devaluations, changes in prices or other
factors, ENDE will adjust such values adequately to reflect such changes in
accordance with methods satisfactory to the Associaton and DINE.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ENDE shall
not incur any indebtedness unless the net consolidated revenues of ENDE and
its subsidiaries (if any) in the twelve consecutive months immediately preceding
such incurrence shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated maximum debt service
requirements for any succeeding twelve-month period following such incurrence
on all indebtedness of ENDE and its subsidiaries (if any), including the indebtedness
proposed to be incurred.


﻿7
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         the term   "indebtedness" shall include the assumption and
guarantee of indebtedness and shall mean all indebtedness of
ENDE and its subsidiaries (if any) maturing by its terms more
than one year after the the date of its incurrence, but excluding
any indebtedness between ENDE and its subsidiaries (if any)
or between such subsidiaries;
(ii)        indebtedness shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of the contract or loan agreement
providing for such indebtedness;
(iii)       the term  "net consolidated revenues" shall mean gross revenues
from all sources, excluding any revenues arising from the
transactions between ENDE and its subsidiaries (if any) or
between such subsidiaries, adjusted to take account of electric
tariffs in effect at the time of incurrence of indebtedness even
though they were not in effect during the twelve consecutive
months to which such revenues related, less operating and
administrative expenses including provision for taxes, if any, but
before provision for depreciation and interest and other charges
on debt;
(iv)        the term  "debt service requirements" shall mean the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund contributions),
interest and other charges on debt; and
(v)         whenever for the purposes of this paragraph it shall be necessary
to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, indebtedness
payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing rate of exchange at which such other
currency is, at the time of such valuation, lawfully obtainable
for the purposes of servicing such indebtedness.
Section 4.05. The obligations to be assumed by ENDE pursuant to the
provisions of Section 4.04 of this Agreement shall be applicable to any subsidiary
of ENDE as though such obligations were binding on any such subsidiary, and
ENDE shall cause any such subsidiary to carry out such obligations.


﻿8
Section 4.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, and until the
completion of Part I of the Project, ENDE shall retain all internally generated
funds for reinvestment and shall not distribute any cash dividends.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and ENDE shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and ENDE shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of ENDE and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and ENDE shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower and
ENDE of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. ENDE shall enable the Association's representatives to examine
all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of ENDE and any relevant records
and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of ENDE thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.


﻿9
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify ENDE of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's addess hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For ENDE:
Empresa Nacional de Electricidad S.A.
Casilla 565
Cochabamba, Bolivia
Cable address:
ENELECTRIC
Cochabamba


﻿10
Section 7.02. ENDE shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of ENDE, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by ENDE pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 7.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gerald Alter
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A.
By /s/ Edmundo Valencia Ibafiez
By /s / Juan Josd Loria
Authorized Representatives


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    Contracts Governed by Guidelines
1.    With respect to any contract for equipment, material and installation
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, ENDE shall furnish to the Association, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, ENDE shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 2.02(a) of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, promptly inform ENDE
and the Borrower, state the reasons for such determination and advise ENDE of
any cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4(c) of Schedule 1 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract and any amendments thereof
shall be furnished to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the delivery to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for equipment, material and installation,
ENDE shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to
the delivery to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies


﻿13
the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bids of each group
shall then be compared with each other and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from Group A or Group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes
of award.
(c)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (b) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from Group C, all Group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest bid from Group A, as determined under paragraph (b) above, after adding
to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in each Group C bid, for
the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount equal to the smaller of
(i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt
importer would have to pay for the importation of goods offered in such Group
C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods. If the Group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes of award;
if not, the lowest bid from Group C, as determined under paragraph (b) above,
shall be selected for purposes of award.
3.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted, the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the methods and stages that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


