Dwmnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Re"pt No. P-5500-YEM
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
FXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
OfN A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 24.8 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR AN
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
MAY 20, 1991
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in tbe performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



-qq
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     Yemeni Rial (YR1)
US$1.00  -  YRls 12.00
(As of April 1991)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CACB              COOPERATIVE AND AGRICULTURE CREDIT BANK
CBY         5     CENTRAL BANK OF YEMEN
EEC               COMMISSION FOR EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
ERC         =     EMERGENCY RECOVERY CREDIT/PROJECT
ERF ?             EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROGRAM
ESC         c     EMERGENCY STEERING COMMITTEE
GCRB        c     GENERAL CORPORATION FOR ROADS AND BRIDGES
HTB         -     HIGH TENDER BOARD
LCCD        -     LOCAL COUNCIL FOR COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT
MAWR        -    MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND WATER RESOURCES
MHUP        -     MINISTRY OF HOUSING AND URBAN PLANNING
MOC         =    MINISTRY OF CONSTRUCTION
MOE         -     MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
MPD         -     MINISTRY OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
PD     n          PROGRAM DIRECTOR
PMU         -     PROGRAM MANAGEMEN4T UNIT
RDP         -     REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
ROY         -     REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TCC         -     TECHNICAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
RP3llC OF YEMRD
simLug ZLi=T
CMRDIT AND PROJECT SiMOAZY
Borromr:                 Republic of Yemen (ROY)
&Mf iciSXar&eL           Ministries of Construction, Housing and Urban
Planning, Education, and Agriculture and Water
Resources.
Credit Amount:           SDR 24.8 million (US$33.0 million equivalent).
Tenma:                   Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.
PInAnDInU Plan:                USS N EAuivalent
Government                   6.5
IDA                         33.0
USAID                       15.0
Germany                      4.5
UNDP                         0.5
Total
Economic Rate of Return:       Not applicable.
Staff Avnraisal Relport:       Not applicable; a Technical Annex is provided.
go: IBRD 22921R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients *znly in ti: performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not othefwise be disclosed without W'orld P;nk authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO TH= EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLI OF YEEF.
FOR AN EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit to
the Republic of Yemen (ROY) for SORs 24.8 million (US$33.0 million equivalent)
for approval. The credit would be on standard IDA terms with forty years
maturity and would help finance an Emergency Recovery Project, estimated to
cost US$59.5 million equivalent, which would meet a part of the incremental
needs generated by the return of Yemeni migrants due to the recent Gulf
crisis. Cofinancing, totalling US$20,000 equivalent, would be provided by
USAID, Germany, and UNDP. The Government of ROY would contribute the
remaining US$6.5 million equivalent.
2.    BackgUrmi.  The economy of ROY, already tackling economic dislocations
following national unification in May 1990, has been severely affected by the
recent Gulf Crisis. In social terms, the crisis caused a mass return-
migration of some 750,000 Yemenis. The influx includes 430,000 working age,
mostly single and unskilled adults and some 65,000 families involving 320,000
children. In addition to increasing Yemen's resident population by nearly 7X,
this influx is straining social services and infrastructure and aggravating
problems of unemployment. Traditional grant aid has also been curtailed.
3.    A majority of returned emigrants have dispersed to different parts of
the country and are estimated to be concentrated in some fourteen locations
(see Map IBRD 22921R). More than half of the returnees originated from rural
areas, to which they have mostly returned, while about 25X are estimated to
have originated in four main urban centers.
4.    The emer zncy created an immediate demand for humanitarian aid for
returning emigr-nts on arrival in ROY. In addition, it led to: (i) serious
economic dislocation due to reductions in foreign exchange remittances
(exceeding US$1 billion p.a.), grant aid and Government revenues, as well as
increased demand for essential imports; (ii) problems of (re)integrating the
population and of meeting the added demand for short-term food aid, shelter,
medical, water, sanitation, electricity and education services; and
(iii) exacerbation of the pre-crisis unemployment situation, estimated at
about 400,000 (10 of national work force), which is expected to rise to
1 million by 1993.
5.    Incremental demands for social services and infrastructure are
significant in all areas of concentration. While particular assistance would
be necessary for agriculture and fisheries, both to maintain standards of
nutrition and to discourage drifting to urban centers in search of work, it is
also important to provide additional employment opportunities in construction
and manufacturing industries. Despite the cessation of hostilities in the



- 2 -
Gulf, the revival of employment opportunities in neighboring countries is not
expected to be significant and socioeconomic problems would continue to
afflict ROY for the foreseeable future.
6.    Government Actions.  The Government reacted to the crisis by declaring
an emergency in December 1990 and putting together the Emergency Recovery
Program (ERP). The United Nations Disaster Relief Organization has assisted
in coordinating humanitarian aid from specialized international agencies for
some 125,000 returnees, of whom some 500 persons (with no home base in Yemen)
remain in camps. Other actions by the Government included: (i) providing
reception aid on arrival and help with transportation to home bases;
(ii) enabling reallocation of some YRls 2 million of 1990 capital budget funds
for recurrent expenditures and increasing allocations for social services by
10X under the 1991 budget; (iii) levying a charge of one day's salary monthly
on Government employees towards incremental costs; (iv) creating a special
fund (YRls 200 million) in the Cooperative and Agriculture Credit Bank (CACB)
to assist returning farmers; (v) assigning new university and secondary school
graduates as teachers (to tackle both the needs of some 180,000 school age
returnee children and the loss of foreign contracted teachers); and
(vi) levying a 5% surcharge on import taxes to raise additional revenues.
The Emergency Recoverv Pro_ram (ERP)
7.    The Government's objectives for the ERP are to help in ensuring
provisions for incremental social infrastructure to meet returnee generated
needs and for incremental consumption goods necessary to maintain nutritional
levels and living standards, as well as to create employment opportunities for
returnees. To address these objectives, the ERP includes provisions for:
(i) construction of civil works (roads and rural water) and housing;
(ii) maintenance of production and employment in the agriculture and fisheries
sectors; (iii) strengthening of social services (education and health);
(iv) extension of existing private sector activities; and (v) expansion of
vocational training. These components include financing for incremental spare
parts, equipment and materials (e.g., for essential services: electricity,
sewerage and water) and imported consumption goods, as well as direct
incentives for returnees, such as tenporary employment opportunities, "food
for work", and training for men, women and youth. IDA has assisted the
Ministry of Planning and Development (MPD) in preparing the ERP, and the
project has been designed to address high priority, eligible parts of the
overall Program.
8.    The total cost of essential actions under the ERP is estimated at
US$245 million. The Program is organized as a multisector operation, enabling
the Government to coordinate assistance from a variety of donors, and to match
each aid to sectoral priorities and relative capacities for fast mobilization
and implementation. The Government recognizes that the ERP only offers an
interim solution, pending introduction of substantial instruments for
adjusting economic policies that would deal more fundamentally with the long-
term effects of the crisis. The Bank is assisting in this direction through a
dialogue on medium-term economic planning and policy formulation.



9.    Strategv and Rationale for IDA Involvement.  The IDA Emergency Recovery
Project (ERC) would focus on mitigating the massive incremental burden
associated with the returning migrants. As part of the "Special Program for
Bank Assistance in Response to the Gulf Crisis", it would fit within the
Bank's policy for emergency operations, which covers extraordinary events of
limited duration, causing serious dislocation to a country's economy and
calling for a quick response from governments and the Bank, IDA's experience
with arranging emergency assistance packages provides an effective basis for
helping the Government of ROY in implementing a program to cope with the
effects of the crisis and in mobilizing donor assistance.
10.   Lessons Learned.  Experience with the IDA-assisted Emergency Flood
Protection Project (Cr. 2073-YDR) has been valuable in guiding the design for
the proposed project; this has augmented the lessons learned from past IDA
operations in the key sectors involved in the ERP, including the need for
simple project design and managing the project through existing institutions.
The portfolio of existing IDA projects in ROY has been examined and
restructured as far as possible.
The Emeraencv Recovery Project (ERC)
11.   Prolect Objective.  The objective of the project is to support a set of
core components from the ERP that will help meet immediate returnee-induced
needs for essential social services, maintain basic nutritional levels, and
expand housing facilities and social infrastructure. Actions will be focused
on the geographic centers of concentration of returnees and will help to
create employment opportunities associated with project expenditures. In
addition, the project is expected to provide the framework for mobilizing
bilateral and other multi-lateral support for the ERP.
12.   Pro1ect Descrivtion.  Within the above objectives, components for the
ERC have been selected on the basis of: (i) maximum potential assistance to
returnees, (ii) capacity for emergency implementation, and (iii) Government's
preferences and other sources of aid available for expanding social services.
The project will provide financing for the following:
(a)   Expanding social infrastructure through: procurement of key
equipment, materials, and training, for (i) the labor intensive
construction and maintenance of 410 km of priorit-" and
economically viable secondary and feeder roads related to centers
of concentration of returnees (US$22.8 million); and (ii) the
provision of 2,500 serviced sites for housing construction by
returnees (US$9.4 million).
(b)   StMenat'ening essential social services through: expansion of
existing education facilities (construction of 420 classrooms),
equipment, materials and teacher training construction of, to
incremental meet part of the increased demands from returnees and
to partially compensate for shortages of expatriate teachers
(US$17.0 million).



. 4-
(c) SuoDortlng auricultural activlties through: provision of gabion
baskets (to help in land and water conservation), as well as
supplies of seeds, chemicals, fertilizers and spare parts for farm
machinery, and feedstuff and veterinary products, to help maintain
crop and livestock production, thereby reducing the need for
4.ncremental food imports and helping to ensure basic nutritional
standards for returnees, a majority of whom have returned to rural
areas (US$9.7 million).
(d)   Strengthening proagrM management through: equipment, vehicles,
training and operating expenses and technical assistance (12 staff
months) for planning and procurement (US$0.6 million).
The project would be fully implemented within three years, with components
being specifically designed to create temporary employment for returnees. All
construction would be restricted to small, simple structures, for which plans
or models already exist, and with emphasis on quick implementation and wide
distribution of benefits to centers of concentration. A map of ROY
(IBRD 22921R) is attached to the report.
Project Cost and Financing
13.   The total cost of the project (including contingencies) is estimated at
US$59.5 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$36.7 million (52X)
and local cost component of US$28.8 million (48X). IDA would finance 551 of
total project costs (US$33.0 million equivalent) and the remaining costs would
be covered by three bi/multi-lateral donors (US$20.0 million equivalent) and
the Government (US$6.5 million equivalent). To provide for early start-up of
project activities, IDA's contribution would include provision for
US$5 million of retroactive financing (equivalent to 15X of the credit, to
cover expenditures from March 15, 1991). A major part of the IDA funds would
be disbursed for imports of essential goods and services. A breakdown of costs
and the financing plan is shown in Schedule A.
14.   Additional, tentatively anticipated though yet to be confirmed,
cofinancing equivalent to US$33 million from some seven other aid agencies,
would supplement the existing funds and provide support for: essential
equipment, materials for installation of rural water schemes and for
strengthening health services; essential imported parts for maintaining
electricity generation and distribution, equipment for expanding small
industries; food and other incremental consumption goods; vocational training
for men and women; and "food for work". Such funding by other aid agencies
would be by parallel arrangements.
15.   The total envelope of aid currently anticipated for the ERP
(US$86 million equivalent, including from IDA) represents only a part of
Government's total estimated requirement; however, the Program's coordinated
management would permit additional aid to be readily incorporated.
Implementation of the different components of the ERC would be supervised
semiannually through joint programming between IDA and the other cofinanciers
involved.



16.   ]     rnggUggzJG. CNlLL         U An Emergency Steering Committee (ESC),
chalred by the First Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Affairs, was
established for launching the ERP, for deciding overall priorities, reviewing
implementation progress, and resolving issues; and a Technical Coordination
Coimittee (TCC), for agreeing on program and budget proposals for expeditious
ioplementing and for monitoring impact, was also established. Existing
technical agencies in the Ministries of Construction (MOC), Housing and Urban
Planning (MHUP), Education (MOE) and Agriculture and Water Resources (MAWR)
would be primarily responsible for project implementation. Their past records
and experionce with similar developments were important considerations in
final selection of project components. A small Program Management Unit (PMU),
headed by a highly experienced and full-time Yemeni Director (PD), has been
created for coordinating all ERP activities, including: procurement,
administration and financial management, monitoring impact, preparing progress
and project audit reports, and organizing semi-annual review meetings with
cofinanciers. The PMU has office facilities in the MOC, in close proximity to
the High Tender Board (HTB), and is staffed with an accountant, a procurement
specialist and a secretary. Procurement would mostly be donp through existing
implementation units in the sector ministries concerned (all of which are well
organized and experienced in procurement for IDA projects) and coordinated by
the PMU in collaboration with HTB.
17. Procurement and Disbursements. Carrying out of civil works for the
roads construction would be by force account, financed by other cofinanciers.
Contracts for the construction of classrooms and the development of housing
sites would be procured through Local Competitive Bidding procedures (LCB).
These contracts are unlikely to interest foreign contractors because they
would be small in size and relate to highly dispersed construction programs.
Contracts for goods would be awarded through simplified International
Competitive Bidding procedures (ICB), except for: (a) Limited International
Bidding (LIB) for individual contracts not exceeding US$1.0 million and up to
an aggregate of US$8.0 million; (b) shopping, for individual contracts not
exceeding US$300,000 up to an aggregate of US$3.0 million; and (c) direct
contracting for proprietary items and spare parts, up to an aggregate of
US$1.0 million. A Special Account, with an initial deposit of US$3.0 million,
would be opened in the Central Bank of Yemen (CBY) to enable disbursement of
credit funds. IDA has approved all necessary standard bidding documents for
the project, and contracts above US$1.0 million would be subject to IDA's
prior review. Procurement methods, with amounts, and disbursements are shown
in Schedule B. The timetable of key processing events and the status of IDA
operations in ROY are presented in Schedules C and D, rsspectively.
18. Selection of BeneficLaries and Cost Recoverv. In order to ensure that
returnees benefit from project actions, annual work programs for each sector
would be decided together with the relevant administrative authorities in each
priority location and representatives of community organizations (Local
Councils for Cooperative Development [LCCDs], cooperatives, and women's
groups). They would also decide on the recruitment of casual labor and on the
selection of beneficiaries for agricultural commodities and the housing sites.
Individual beneficiaries would pay the full costs for farm inputs and, for
housing plots, through lease agreements wite  p.-rchase options.  Payments for



inputs would be collected by agricultural regional development authorities
(RDAs), while repayments for housing sites would be recovered by the Housing
Bank and local MHUP offices. A Deposit Account would be established in the
CBY for receiving revenues from sales of agricultural commodities and housing
sites. These local funds would be used for development purposes.
19.   0gXixgmug, J=pac.  The project is rated in gnvironment Category "B";
its focus on alleviating pressures on social services and creating jobs
(especially in rural areas) would provide a positive environmental impact.
Arrangements and assurances for execution of civil works and for procurement
and utilization of agricultural goods (particularly fertilizers and crop
protection chemicals), would ensure full compliance with World Bank
guidelines.
20.  A*eesants A&S9hAd.  During negotiations, Government agreements were
obtained on: (a) finalizing cofinancing arrangements; (b) maintaining a fully
staffed PMU; and (c) procedures for: (i) accelerating procurement;
(it) monitoring progress in project implementation; and (iii) selecting
beneficiaries of serviced housing sites, through the establishment of
Beneficiary Selection Committees, and recovering associated costs (Appendix
III of Technical Annex).
21.   Ie*Us. The project would assist ROY in partially containing the most
damaging social and economic effects of the Gulf crisis and in supporting the
orderly resettlement of the returnees. It would have two direct benefits:
first, from rural development activities and the importation of goods, which
would help to maintain nutritional levels and living standards and generate
employment (about 15,000 man-years under the social infrastructure component
and 10,000 man-years under other components); and secondly, from addressing
part of the incremental requirements for education and housing. Indirectly,
project activities would help to counter the creation of urban slums and to
minimize pressures on the limited natural resources base. Furthermore, it is
anticipated that the accelerated implementation procedures arranged for this
project would subsequently be adopted for regular IDA operations in ROY.
22.   Risks.  The risk of an overly complex project design has been minimized
by separating the immediate/human'tarian aid from the short-term actions, by
adopting a simple project design focused on four priority sectors, and by
using existing agencies for implementation. Another risk is that the
complexities of Government's procurement process could threaten the project's
underlying objective of speedy implementation. This has been minimized by
prior agreement on standard bidding documents, by streamlining procurement
procedures, and by allowing the PMU to approve procurement in place of the
MPD. Finally, the historic delays in confirming credit effectiveness in ROY
would be minimized by obtaining advance clearance of the project documents by
the ESC.



23.                 .  1 am satisfied that the proposed Credit complies with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend its approval by the
Executive Directors.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
May 20, 1991
KN.



8
Sichedul-AJ
REPUBLIC OE YEMEN
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Elan
Estimated C08t8 U
Comtonent                                   Fre&ign       Local    Total
-(US$ M Equivalent)-----
(a) Social Infrastructure and Productign
Feeder roads and equipment                5.6        14.1        19.7
Housing construction                      5.3         2.7         8.0
Agricultural production                   7.9         0.5         8.4
(b) Strengthening of Social Services
Education support                         7.4         7.4        14.8
(C) Ploiect Administration
Technical assistance and
Project implementation                   0.3Q
Total Base Costs                       26.5        25.0        51.5
Physical Contingencies                2.9         2.5        5.4
Price Contingencies                  _1.132
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                    ML.
1J     Exclusive of taxes and duties from which the project is exempt.
Financing Plan
Percentage of Project
Total       Foreign
Foreign     Local     Total      Costs    Exchag  Costs
-----(US$ M Equivalent)----
Government               -          6.5       6.5        11            -
IDA                    30.5         2.5      33.0        55           99
USAID                    -         15.0      15.0        25            -
Germany                             4.5       4.5         8
UNDP                    0.2         0.3                  1l
TOTAL                  30.7        28.       59.5       1Q      



-9
Schre&ul
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC QF YEME
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJ
Procurement Methods
ICBI    LCB      LIB   Other   N.A.   Total il
-----(US$ M Equivalent)------------
Civil Works                            20.0          17.0 !!         37.0
(13.1)                       (13.1)
Equipment & Furniture           3.3            3.1    2.1 s           8.5
(3.3)          (3.1)  (2.0)           (8.4'
Materials & Text Books                         2.2    2.2 s           4.4
(2.2)  (2.1)          (4.3)
Agricultural Inputs             3.5            2.4    1.1             7.0
(3.5)          (2.3)  (1.0)           (6.8)
Technical Assistance
& Training                                                 0.5      0.5
(0.4)   (0.4)
Incremental Wages
& Operating Costs                                          2.1      2.1
TOTAL                           6.8    20.0    7.7   22.4    2.6    59.5
(6.8)  (13.1)  (7.6)  (5.1)  (0.4)  (33.0)
V Simplified ICB procedures.
Si Figures in parentheses are corresponding amounts to be financed by IDA.
3/ Procurement by force account.
4 To be procured by implementing agencies or private sector suppliurs
through shopping procedures.



- 10 -
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
Categgry                 CXedit Allocation        2 of Expenditures
(USS million)          to be financed
Civil Works                    12.4               55X for classrooms,
and 85X for
housing sites
Equipment and Materials        10.5               100l   of foreign
expenditures and
902 of expenditures
on imported items
procured locally
Agricultural Inputs             6.1               100l   of foreign
expenditures
Technical Assistance
& Training                0.4              1002 of foreign and
951 of local
expenditures
Unallocated                     3.6
TOTAL
Estimated IDA Di.bursements
IDA Fiscal Year
FY92   FY93  FY94  FY95
-(US$ million)-
Annual                               17.0   6.5   6.5   3.0
Cumulative                           17.0  23.5  30.0  33.0
Closing Date: September 30, 1994.



Sgbedulr, C,
THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
1.   Time Taken to Prepare                 : Three months
2.    Prepared by                          : Government and IDA Staff
3.    First IDA Mission                    : December 15, 1990
4.   Appraisal Mission Departure              March 15, 1991
5.    Negotiations                         . May 6, 1991
6.    Planned Date of Effectiveness           September 30, 1991
7.    List of Relevant PCRs and PPARs
FIRST AND SECOND EDUCATION PROJECTS, Cr. 421-YAR and
Cr. 611-YAR, respectively (PPAR Nos. 5076 and 5086)
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT, Cr. 494-YDR
(PPAR No. 5120)
SECOND SOUTHERN UPLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT,
Cr. 1067-YAR



- 12 -
AM e e w "                                     ..........
...... I........... ......Page  1  of  2
Ite O# WA ftw ret4tteu
...............................
A. Statm"  of JOA Crdits
^As df Ss.1, t1991)
hogit Ir VI 0111101
IDA Credit
er. I"e. $t et| t Pcebet ~~~~~..............  t 2.U.if
cf. No.  $I  IOF#VerPW     ~                                    Amoun  It       unebwi5te
................................. ...........................................................-
51 OtntG   futll  COUPON                             410.4
Qf Waft  tS. UL  mu toegrm Lnoin   3/
F019    196  _mAtti of V~              Iilon  IV                   10.4                1.9
tI=     195 Setct of T~                Sams Urs 0ev.               t5.0                3.3
323    19 t1 R   tac of   m            taxation tti                 4.0                0.8
1239    19  "Oda to of 1n              Agr. it*. * a".             6.0                 0.9
it2    iqa t 0       eo tof n          #elaesreies 0De. III         6.0                0.4
1310   196 tleie of tem                Ination v                   10.0                3.2
1314   19t3 tamic  of Yw               Agr. ,,. It                  9.0                2.2
1341   1OU Iamu IO   teen              P~er II                    19.0                3.6
1413   1903 tetAMic of  t_"            N     oig-    v             13.0                2.2
1       1964 lOaU     Si et            UrbanII                     1a.0                6.9
145    191 OU aMic of Yawn            Cotrol 1i1NIMMiUI Age.       8.0                3.9
14t7    1914 Res*I It d awn *_atarn VI                             10.0                a.2
1S4?   1985 t   ehtic of te            ISV it                       t.0                5.8
154    1985 bemu  ic  f te             T TA to CPO                  4.?                3.8
155?   1985 SeOwic of 1~              AgriC. Rerges               5.0                 0.9
15U4   1965 ReStie of tawn            Wool AtWf A- r.ev.          10.0               12.5
¶61?    1985 teea*_c of Yawn           Hig        IV              14.4                 6.7
16s    1986 omMIec of r_n              Tnzeeicl training           12.?               13.2
1667    166 ted sMic of Yawn           Tih_w V                     10.0               10.6
1701    1986 t[esael of r_             powo IV                    It.?                12.3
1702   1966 temtic Of Ta               T.A. Petratew               12.0                8.4
1739    18? R_e    e f Yawn            Cr. w5V.5. II               5.6                 5.8
1m      "96? Rookie of twn             sw                          12.3                9.9
1m     1987 tesmeic of vaw             T*eed     Training          10.4                9.?
13      198? teokic ot ten             hiey v                      16.8               11.6
18     19W It e   ic o fean            Saw**e-ootaie tgeo         la.?                 6.3
m       198 toe  k ie of twn           Ag. 0ev. (Not".  "e.)    17.4                  15.0
19"    198t somatic of  er             Al *Aate Mat r              12.0               11.1
19n2    1989 balie at Yws                 th it                    4.5                 4.3
196    1989 tomMe of tof    i          get  eI.                    15.0                U.t
015    1949 *e.tic of tem             ttn. 0w. far Pie.           10.8               10.4
3015    1969 teoo"ic df Ty             Agr. Oev. (WW1) IIt         12.0               12.6
Ml5  1 199   emMCi_e of t_             Neolth tt                   15.0               15.8
2160 4/ 199 RMMsg ofe tn                eita  1e.  Mliator         15.0               IS.$
a0      1990 etteA t of Yeme          ber. flow goe".             10.0                9.?
3164 4/ 1990 lteSatet of aws           Power Itt                   IS.5               16.1
2170 4/ 1990 Roetitc Of ro             forts Weter iletly          12.0               12.4
31??   1991 ReSatic of ls              muliti*es- troewbot         30.0               30.?
3222 4/ 1991 teSetic Of Y*             secn=ry ta_er to           19.40              18.25
Total                     t.?                 343.t
- ~     ~     -
Of etenc has bems repaid   11.9
Totat Now held by ICA     855.8
0t73t UMwseid                                 343.8
If  The stats Of ttroicts listed In Part A is Osseibed in  se _Pate r_srt On  t I
otIDOA fiewe proe)Cts in eseaein dICih to wsted twigs *ear  NW  circutoed
to tes £eutivo Oirestwo  an Aitpr  30 WA  toawr 31.
RI S"eiming uth treit 1202Y-tS eneit   mto Ues be dn eed in  Sist OrumenWg
blisn  (Ute). The delar  mmta Itn tls  eetim  repOeselt ts doltltr ewivtelt at
the tim  of  ~edit negotietlon  for tho IA mits _Ui the dote  eevaleetts Wa of
Do _ew 31, 19t for tw  diewssd a_ats.
3/ Arol SOMr1  or dfteer FYN0.
t loet yet effetive.



- 13 -
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF RPC INWSTNEWtS
....... ............. ....
(As of March 31, 1990)
REPIUISC oF YOERE
(Aoout in  i  d lf on)
Ye r              bl1or                                 type of atsfne s   Loan   Equity   total
19?5    YTaen Dairy *n  Juice Pro.  cts                    O ary and          3.15     0.00    3.15
Uch.stries Co., Ltd.                            Juice Products
1984/85  Yoen Dry Cell Satteri.e                       Dry CtIt Batteries    3.25      0.90     4.1S
1985     Nationtl Cospany for                            Vegetable Ofl        4.65     0.00     4.65
Vegetable OiL and Ghee tndustries
1986    Yemen Hunt Oil Coopany                            Oil Refinery        9.00     0.00     9.00
1967    **rib Agriculture Copsny                      Agricultural & Live    2.40      0.30     2.70
Total Gross Comitamnts                                              2245      1.20   23.65
Less: Canceltations, terminations, repymmnts,                     14.02     1.20    15.22
sales and ,xchanee rate adJustmats                                      ..          .
Total camitments new held by IFC                                     8.43     0.00    8.43
Total Oisbursed                                                      8.43     0.00    8.43
Total Undisbursed                                                    0.00     0.00     0.00



REPUBUC OF YEMEN
EGENCY RECOVERY PROJCT
TECHNICAL ANNA



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF YEHEN
=MeRGNc  RECOwVERY  RJ2
T.ECHNqICL ANNEX
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
I.  NATURE OF THE EMEAGENCY             .........................................    1
II.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION .............................................    4
A. Roads Component ..............................................    5
B. Serviced Housing Sites Component .............................    6
C. Education Component ..........................................    8
D. Agriculture Component ........................................   10
E. Program Management Unit ......................................   12
III.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION .....................  13
IV.  BENEFITS AND RISKS ..............................................   17
V.   STATUS OF PROJECT PREPARATION AND AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED ......  18
AEUICES
I.    Estimated Costs for Emergency Recovery Program .....          .............  19
II.   Key Indices for Project Implementation ..........................  20
III. A.  Schedule for Roads Construction              .       .22
B.  Serviced Housing Sites    ..31
(1)  Summary of Agreed Development Sites .31
(2) Beneficiary Selection Criteria .31
C.    Summary of New Classrooms to be Constructed   .         .33
D. Agricultural Component    ..34
(1) Beneficiary Selection Criteria .34
(2) Schedule of Goods to be Procured .35
IV.  Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance Personnel ...........  36
V.  LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE ...........................   39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their olfcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



fSEPUBLIC    a K 
EENRECYARECOMER  PROJCT
I.        E  THE EMRC    C
1.01     The emergency arose from the mass return-migration of Yemeni workers
and their families due to the Gulf crisis. Estimates of the characteristics
of the returning Yemeni emigrants, based on data from a recent Human Resources
Sector Study (IDA 12/90) are as follows:
Total number of returnees        750,000
Including:
involving: working age
adults                430,000 (80% males)
and children          320,000 (60% school age (5 years +1)
returning family units 65,000
Estimates of the qualification status of the returnees indicate that 5X have
professional or technical qualifications, some 35% have artisanal or clerical
skills, and 60% are unskilled (shopkeepers, casual laborers, etc).   Most
returnees were unable to dispose of their businesses and possessions in an
orderly fashion and, therefore, arrived in Yemen with few assets. Some 1,000
of these people are remaining in temporary reception camps, because they have
no home base in Yemen due to long-term absence or foreign birth.
1.02     A majority of returnees have dispersed to different parts of the
Republic and current estimates indicate concentrations of these people in the
following locations: Abyan, Aden, Al Buga", Bajil, Dhamar, Hadramawt, Hajah,
Hogariyah, Hudaidah, Ibb, Manakha, Mukalla, Sana'a, and Zabid. The estimates
of numbers and locations of returnees are confirmed by preliminary results
from a survey conducted by the Central Statistics Office, MPD (January 1991).
1.03     Both the northern (previously YAR) and southern (previously PDRY)
parts of Yemen traditionally depended for foreign exchange on workers'
remittances and various forms of aid. Since 1988, these sources have been
augmented by limited oil exports. Due to inappropriate macroeconomic and
sectoral policies, both parts of the country have experienced prolonged
periods of serious macroeconomic imbalances and instability. From 1985 to 89,
budget deficits averaged 172 of GDP in YAR and 402 in PDRY, while the balance
of payments deficits averaged 11% and 28%, respectively. The budget deficits
were largely financed by domestic credit creation, causing intense



- 2 -
inflationary pressures. In YAR, the consumer price index rose over 23X p.a.
during this period. For PDRY, it is impossible to calculate inflation due to
the comprehensive price controls. However, these controls (which were
discontinued in May 1990) created general shortages throughout the area. The
balance of payments deficits were increasingly financed by long and short-
term external borrowing, which created a heavy debt burden. As a result, both
YAR and PDRY resorted to rescheduling of debts to !TSSR. Since national
unification in May 1990, the new Government has been grappling with these
problems as well as the challenge of amalgamating two sets of public
administration, itself incurring additional expenses. This already precarious
situation has been exacerbated by economic dislocation created by the Gulf
crisis and requires special attention. The Bank is working with the
Government to help define a medium-term strategy for reversing this situation.
1.04     The current emergency would result in serious economic dislocation,
problems of (re)integration of the population, and exacerbation of the
existing unemployment situation:
a)  Economic dislocation is likely to be felt in the second half of 1991
and in 1992, after the returnees have settled back and when tl.eir
savings dry up. The Government's preliminary estimates of the
primary effects of the economic dislocation on the external accounts
indicate that it could exceed US$2 billion per annum, as shown below:
(5$ million)
Pot'ential Gains
Oil exports                      +162        + 210       + 175
PotentAl Losse
Work  remittances                -223        -1240       -1240
Grant Aid                        - s0        - 172       - 172
Refinery fes                     - 40        - 219       - 219
Oil price premium                - 3         - 8         - 8
Exports to Iraq and Kuwait                   -1          -1
Tourism                          -1l         - 45          45
Transport (air & sea)            - 35        - 123       - 123
Aden port services               - 17        - 52        - 52
1ngmna Expendibtures
Fox additional essentiaL         - 91        - 336       -365
Imports (including food)
N.t Effects on bternal Accounts  -328        -1966       -2050
aditional Budnet- xunsditures
or social serViCes to etur"s       52          120        120
The figures provide an acceptable indication of the order of
importance of the crisis. While some of the estimated losses
are considered high, the recent downwards trend in oil prices is
likely to adversely affect the projected gains and the figures
disregard potential negative secondary impact on the economy.
Productive sectors, such as agriculture, are likely to suffer
immediate reduction in output due to shortages of essential inputs,
whether from traditional aid sources or due to scarcity of foreign
exchange.



- 3 -
b)  ThejMrbles of reinteRgzaLU4 is centered on:  (l) the logistical
problems of  sststing returnees on arrival and in transportation to
thelr home bases and, in the worst instances, settlement of people
who have no home base in Yemen; and (li) the physical demands for
housing as well as for providing health, schooling and other social
services; and the strain on the existing social infrastructure
(electricity, water, sanitation and roads) in rural and urban areas
affected by the sudden influx of returnees. In addition, education
services have been strained by the failure of contracted expatriate
school teachers to return to Yemen at the start of the new School
year, in September 1990.
c)  The uneMGoMent problem associated with returnees has exacerbated
the serious pre-crisis situation of: (i) an estimated 430,000
unemployed persons (representing approximately 101 of the national
labor force, itself growing with over 100,000 school leavers
annually); (ii) the net return of emigrant workers already occurring
through reduced economic activity and expanding population growth in
Gulf states traditionally offering employment opportunities; and
(iii) an expectation that economic constraints are likely to oblige
the Government to reduce public sector employees by some 100,000 by
the end of the interim period in national unification (12/92). Even
without the recent demographic developments, these factors would
result in an unemployment rate of 12X of the national labor force in
1992. With the immediate influx of returnees, the severity of the
unemployment problem is significantly compounded. The estimated
number of unemployed persons of working age in the Republic is likely
to rise to 800,000 in 1991 (approximately 202 of the national labor
force), with prospect of rising to one million (or 25X of the
national labor force) by 1993.
1.05     The cessation of hostilities in the Gulf brings little hope of early
alleviation of the emergency in Yemen. Even with assistance from the
Emergency Recovery Program (ERP), the strain on the economy caused by the
crisis would take at least three years to assuage. The increased demands on
social services would be a permanent challenge to the Government and the
prospects for large numbers of employment opportunities reopening in
neighboring countries are uncertain.



4-
UE.xam
2.01     ltoMM. In order to reduce the impact of the
crisis, the Government has established the ERP to coordinate assistance
targeted on sectors which: (i) are most seriously affected (health, education,
housing, water, electricity, and sanitation); and (it) offer scope both for
maintaining the momentum of economic activity and for short-term employment
opportunities (housing, civil engineering, small-scale manufacturing
industries, agriculture and fisheries). Expansion of vocational training is
also highlighted as a means for developing technical skills. The basic
criteria for seo'ecting specific developments are: provision of physical
resources (imports), support for strengthening vital social services, creation
of employment opportunities, and stimulus for medium-term economic growth.
2.02     Ugj6ct Gbjectlve. The objective of the Emergency Recovery Project
(ERG) would be to support the incremental costs associated with the massive
influx of returnees by: supplying physical inputs for housing sites,
strengthening essential social services, maintaining food supplies through
support for agriculture, as well as creating employment opportunities. In
addition, the project would support the Program Management Unit (PMW) and act
as a catalyst for mobilizing donor support for the ERP.
2.03     P"1ect Dcl-e[a. Based on the information from a human resources
study mounted by IDA and a survey completed by Central Statistics Office (of
MPD, 1/91), on the characteristics of the returnees (particularly regarding
geographic concentrations, skills, priorities in social services, and
resettlement needs), the project interventions would include funding for the
following operations:
(a) Constructign and groductio: covering procurement of key equipment
and materials in support of programs for: (i) labor intensive
construction of secondary and feeder roads; (ii) installation of
services for housing sites; and (iii) assuring supplies of inputs for
crop and livestock production. These actions would be restricted to
small, simple structures (for which plans or models already exist)
and maintaining production on existing farms; with emphasis on quick
implementation and wide distribution of benefits in centers of
concentration.
(b) Sunport for essential social services: covering expansion of
facilities for education, essential to meet the increased demands
from returnees.
These operations would have significant impact on creating employment
opportunities.
2.04     The quantitative estimates for the selected ERC components, detailed
below and in Annex III are amplified in working papers prepared in
collaboration with the sector ministries c-ncerned. In line with IDA policies



- 5 .
for emergency operations, the project would endeavour to provide a balance of
priority developments focused on the returnees and giving special attention
to: (i) the (direct and indirect) needs of women and children after the
influx; (li) the scope for vocational training to harness and develop
technical skills; and (iii) the scope for encouraging environmental
development (e.g., land conservation).
2.05 Alternative components considered appropriate for meeting the criteria
for IDA financing were: construction of rural water facilities, strengthening
of medical operations, and expanding vocational training (all of which could
be readily focused on areas of concentration of returnees), and purchase of
essential spare parts for generation and distribution of electricity. These
potential components were not included as priorities for IDA funding, on the
expectation that they could be favored for support by other aid agencies.
Ssectoral ¢amnoets -or IDA Support
A. Itoads (E$stiated Cost V9SS22.8 mil1don)
2.06     BackgrgwW. Development of secondary and feeder roads would
particularly benefit rural communities through greater accessibility for
agricultural inputs, cooking gas and water, and opening-up of marketing
channels. These actions would also contribute to reducing environmental
degradation. This component t"ould also provide an important source of
temporary employment for returnees, thereby helping to discourage urban
migration. Past experience with this type of development in Yemen would favor
this component.
2.07     Pilancinj and Costs.  The project would finance the total costs of a
labor intensive program for the construction/maintenance works
[Appendix III(A)] focused on centers of concentration of returnees and
involving: (a) 140 km of secondary roads, which are technically and
economically justified; (b) 270 km of feeder roads, which are essential to
agricultural development and for which elementary designs and economic
justification exist; (c) road maintenance and (d) expansion of the Ministry of
Construction (MOC) Vocational Training Center in Aden.
2.08     At existing wage rates, the labor intensive approach is economically
and socially more favorable for initiating construction of these roads than
mechanized/capital intensive construction. One km of standard design
secondary road in average terrain in Yemen costs about YRls 2.5 million
(including approximately YRls 1.0 million for the initial, labor intensive
phase to sub-base level, and YRls 1.5 million for completing asphalting in the
second phase). At sub-base level, 75X of the cost is for labor and the
remainder is for materials and tools for clearing, excavation, compaction,
hauling, drainage and structures, masonry walls, grading and sub-base). The
second phase construction involves greater machinery input (most of which
would be procured under the project). One km of feeder road (earth road
standard) costs about YRls 300,000 to sub-base level and is labor intensive.
The total cost of the component is estimated at US$22.8 million equivalent,
including about US$6.4 million (28X) of foreign costs and US$16.4 million



- 6 -
(721) of local costs. Foreign costs would be entirely financed under IDA
credit. Funding of local costs would be provided from existing countervalue
funds bald by NPD. On the above bases, it is estimated that the 410 km
development vould generate some 11,650 man-years of employment for returnees.
The development would include a task work system of payment which would
motivate workers to achieve higher rates of output, paying up to 'YRls 150 per
man-day.
2.09     Cost ad I            Tn c n.  The total cost of this component is estimated at
US$22.8 million equivalent, including about US$6.3 million of foreign costs;
thls would be covered by the credit and the balance, of about US$16.5 million,
would be borne by the Government or other cofinanciers.
2.10     grManization and I4namement.  Road construction would be implemented
by force account, in accordance with past successful practice of the GCRB.
Local Councils for Cooperative Development (LCCD) would be directly involved
with recruiting the returnees as casual workers. The execution of the works
in a limited time would require some subcontracting (for services, materials
and tools) to local contractors and manufacturers. OCRB would support the
local entrepreneurs by coordinating operations with the ongoing Seventh
Highway Project (Credit 1848-YAR) and, thereby, project actions would benefit
from the skilled management and experience of HOC/GCRB in similar programs.
In addition, the availability of equipment, facilities (more than twenty camps
situated throughout the country) and accommodation for workers would be an
asset to timely execution of the ERC.
B.     Serviced Houslm Sites (Intimated Cost: US89.4  Ilinml
2.11     Jackltrgi.  During the Gulf crisis, the Govertment was unable to
respond swiftly to the demand for permanent shelter for the returnees, due to
a shortage of serviced sites. To address this problem, the ERP plans to
install about 9,000 serviced house building sites, for which parcels of
Government-owned land in 18 settlements in six governorates have been
identified.
2.12     The housing component under the ERC would provide for the subdivision
of land and the installation of services for approximately 2,500 housing sites
(Appendix III(B)(1)). It would focus on the provision of services (which
cannot be effectively constructed by individual households), thereby creating
the basis for subsequent, self-help traditional development of housing. The
identified land includes locations which are close to areas of concentration
of returnees and to main roads, with suitable geological and topographic
characteristics and with low seismic, flooding and landslide risk. Project
actions would delineate sites, identify road reserves, and install water,
electricity and sewage disposal systems and surface drainage. Site planning
would reflect requirements for complementary social and commercial facilities.
2.13     Residential plots would be leased to returnees who would have the
option of purchasing the plot at cost at any time during the 25-year lease
term. Plans for self-help construction of an approved core house would be
provided. Plot recipients would initially be allowed to establish temporary



structures on their plot and, as their incomes increase, would receive
technical guidance for building the first stage of the approved core housing
units. This would enable initiation of permanent settlements. Permanent
construction would be subject to structural standards and would be supervised
by Ministry of Housing and Urban Planning (MHUP).
2.14     Design standards have been approved and, following completion of soil
tests, detailed designs and bid documents would be finalized for agreement by
8/31/91. Civil works contracts are expected to be signed by 12/31/91 and site
work should commence in January 1992. Allocation of serviced plots and
establishment of temporary housing would start in January 1993 and be
completed by June 1994 (Annex III). The project would also provide for
vehicles (8), equipment and computer software for the processing of a
socioeconomic survey.
2.15     Costs and Financing.  The total cost of this component is estimated
at US$9.4 million equivalent, including about 66X of foreign costs. The
credit would contribute about US$7.8 million for this component, or about 85X
of the total cost, and the balance, of about US$1.6 million equivalent, would
be borne by the Government.
2.16     Organixation and Management.  Site development and plot allocations
would be coordinated by a unit within the General Directorate for Urban
Development in the Housing Sector of MHUP. The unit would be headed by a
Senior Yemeni Project Manager who would coordinate with the Program Management
Unit (PMU). Other units, already responsible for implementing IDA assisted
housing and infrastructure projects, would be responsible for project
activities in their areas. The MHUP has a cadre of 250 experienced engineers,
in Sana'a and in governorate offices, who would be responsible for providing
technical support and supervision.
2.17     Following the procedures of other IDA assisted housing projects, the
MHUP would make agreements with the public utility companies (National Water
and Sewerage Authority ENWASA] and the Yemen General Electricity Corporation
[YGECJ) to provide technical support for the installation of the water,
sewerage and electricity systems. The infrastructure provided under the
project would be transferred to NWASA and YGEC as equity contributions from
the Government and the agreements would include undertakings for etnsuring the
operation and maintenance of the systems after installation. The agencies
cover operation and maintenance charges through their utility tariffs.
Similarly, after completing installation, community facilities would be
transferred to the appropriate local authority that would be responsible for
their maintenance (as well as for provision of solid waste collection and
street cleaning).
2.18     Ta=reting of Returnees.  In order to ensure that returnees benefit
from serviced sites developed under the project, a list of criteria and
procedures has been agreed (Appendix III(B)(2)) and the socioeconomic section
of MHUP is making a survey in the vicinities of agreed sites. The final
selection of beneficiaries would be made by a Beneficiary Selection Committee,
comprised of representatives of concerned Ministries, Local Councils for



Cooperative Development and administrative councils in the relevant
governorates. Existing application forms provide for assessment in accordance
with agreed cr^.eria and for the verification of information provided by
applicants.
2.19     Procurement.  The site development would be implemented through about
five civil works contracts. These contracts, consisting of suall works in
scattered locations, are unlikely to attract international bids and would,
therefore, be tendered under LCB procedures using fixed price basis. Each
contract would be completed in about eighteen months. Procurement of
surveying equipment and vehicles would be through International Shopping
procedures; and for computer software and office supplies, through direct
purchase.
2.20      The MHUP would be responsible for preparing the technical
specifications, the special conditions of contracts and bid quantities for
procurement documents. In collaboration with the PHU, MHUP would prepare the
remaining bidding documents requirements and the evaluations of bids. Bid
award, contract signing and construction supervision would be done by the
MUP.
2.21     Cost Recovery. The cost of installing water, electricity, and sewage
disposal systems is estimated at YRls 61,700 (US$5,140) including physical and
price contingencies, per 100 e' plot. Plots would be leased to returnee
households at 15X of their incomes on the basis of a lease which would allow
the plot holder to purchase the plot at cost at any time within the lease
period. The charges would be collected by MHUP staff in each governorate.
Records for each beneficiary account would be maintained in Sana'a. The
aspects of tenure and cost recovery would be carefully monitored during
supervision.
C.     Idmcation (Xstizated Cost USS17.0 millioj
2.22     Backgromd.  It is estimated that some 21.  s) school age children
returned to Yemen due to the Gulf crisis. In an effcrt to accommodate these
children, many schools are operating three sessions a day and those in warmer
locations have erected tents. In addition to schooling capacity, furniture,
textbooks and other educational materials are also in short supply.
Furthermore, the situation regarding the supply of teachers is critical,
because the influx of returnee children has exacerbated the problems caused
by: the failure of some 2,000 contracted expatriate teachers to return to
Yemen, and the cessation of external funding for about 1,500 teachers.
2.23     The education subproject under the ERC would address the emergency
needs for school buildings, teachers, furniture and educational materials. It
would be implemented over three years by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
of the Ministry of Education (HOE) as part of the Government's prio 'ty plan
for the long-term development of the national education system. The
developments would both address shortages created by the emergency,



.9
principally by expanding facilities of existing schools in centers of
concentration of returnees which have been identified as seriously
overcrowded, and to build and equip eight new schools.
2.24     Civil Works.  Under the project, 420 incremental classrooms would be
constructed (150 in rural and 270 in urban areas--Appendix III(C)], to
accommodate about 20,000 of the returned students. Rural construction would
be in the form of additional classrooms or 3-room and 6-room new schools,
using existing standard designs which have been approved by IDA. The
construction period is estimated at 6 to 9 months per school. In rural areas
there is Government owned land available for school construction; while, in
urban areas all new classrooms would be expansion of existing schools. Since
1980, PIU has been building one-story school buildings with foundations strong
enough to withstand a second story. In addition to classrooms, it is agreed
that sanitary facilities would be increased in proportion to the increased
capacity. The PIU estimates that the construction of 12 classrooms would take
12 to 15 months; it has the capability of managing construction of about 500
classrooms per year, so the construction of 420 classrooms over the project
period would be feasible.
2.25     Furniture and Equipment.  Furniture would be provided for all newly
constructed classrooms (estimated at lOX of construction costs) and for the
equivalent of about 100 existing classrooms now accommodating some 5,000
additional students without proper desks in already overcrowded schools. In
addition, equipment and instructional materials would be provided mainly for
the benefit of the same classrooms and schools. The HOE is preparing a list
of the needed equipment and materials. Records would be maintained showing
lists of schools and numbers of classrooms benefiting from the distribution of
furniture, equipment and instructional materials.
2.26     Textogoks.  The MOE has been unable to supply textbooks for the
returnee students; therefore, project financing would be provided for
incremental paper and printing materials to enable MOE to distribute textbooks
free of charge to all returnee students over a two-year period (about 10
textbooks per student per year).
2.27     Teacher Training.  Training for about 2,000 recent teaching recruits
(including at least 30X females) would be carried out in nine teacher training
centers (TTCs) in localities which have colleges of education (COEs). Six
weeks programs would be provided for three consecutive summers (total of 18
weeks per trainee) starting in the summer of 1991. The instructional staff
would mainly be Yemenis from educational institutions and COEs. Specialist
teacher trainers (45 person-months) would be recruited for development of
teaching-learning modules to be used in teacher training and to fill
instructional gaps in relevant fields which cannot be staffed adequately from
local resources. Teacher training programs would be designed so as to entitle
candidates to qualify for a teaching diploma after agreement with concerned
parties, thereby providing motivation and increasing probability of retaining
teachers. At negotiations, assurances were obtained on the recruitment of
training specialists (Terms of Reference: Annex IV). Training would be
targeted on secondary school graduates to prepare them to become upper basic



- 10 -
education teachers (classes 5 - 9). Teachers of younger children (classes 1 -
4) require more intensive pre-service training and the needs of such returnee
children would be met by reassigning classroom teachers of classes 5 and 6 in
the old system to classes 1 and 4 in the new system.
2.28     Instruction would take place in groups of 40 trainees for 30 hours a
week (5 hours a day for 6 days in each of the 6 weeks of each summer session).
The teacher trainees would be drawn from the group of secondary school
graduates recruited on an emergency basis in late 1990 and who started
teaching without any training. Stipends would be provided during the period
of teacher training. The training program would utilize materials which have
been developed for the purpose by a team of Yemeni and foreign experts, and
which would be revised and used for future teacher training. It is important
that funds be made available (e.g., through ret_oactive financing) to allow
for all categories teacher trainers to be recruited urgently, in order to
prepare the instructional modules, thereby enabling the first summer teacher
training session to commence in July 1991. The project would provide for the
management/supervision of the teacher training program, furniture, office
equipment and support services.
2.29     Costs and Financing.  The total cost of this component is estimated
at US$17.0 million equivalent, including approximately 50X of foreign costs.
The credit would contribute about US$9.4 million, or about 551 of the total
cost, and the balance would be borne by the Government or other cofinanciers.
D.    Anr_culture (tlstimted Cost US89.7 =Uian
2.30     BacLtround.  The incremental demand for food, provoked by the instant
arrival of some 750,000 returnees, is a critical dimension to the emergency.
Furthermore, reductions in traditional concessional aid for agricultural
inputs and in foreign exchange remittances for financing imports, threaten
both the maintenance of past levels of agricultural production and the
potential for increasing output to meet the incremental demands for food. It
also jeopardizes the potential for returnees to earn cash income from farming.
2.31     More than 50X of returnees are estimated to have gone back to farms
already occupied by other family members, thereby creating pressures of
extended families, both on the basic land and water resources and on rural
infrastructure. In addition, the annual food requirement for returnees is
estimated at 135,000 tons of grain equivalent (or 10 of Yemen's average
annual grain imports). Obtaining these supplies by increasing imports is
impracticable, due to the deterioration in the balance of payments situation.
Therefore, the Government is obliged to find the means to increase domestic
food production.
2.32     The limited land and water resources in Yemen restrict the scope for
expanding cultivated areas and, therefore, incremental food requirements must
be met from raising productivity from existing crop production areas and from
livestock. This would be achieved, either on the basis of extended families



- 11 -
or through hlrlng returnees as casual labor. Additional possibillties for the
sector, envisaged as part of the ERP, could be created by expanding private
sector food processing operations.
2.33     Provision of gabion baskets would play an lmportant role in land and
water conservation, as well as helping to maintain crop production on terraces
(whieh account for nearly half of Yemen's rainfed land). At the same time,
assured supplies of fertllizers, seeds, crop protection chemicals, livestock
feeds and veterinary products are primordial for maLntainLng food production.
For the last decade, fertilizer imports to Yemen have fluctuated between
20,000 and 30,000 tons annually. Part of these supplies have been in the form
of concessional aid from neighboring countries and the remainder have been
imported by the private sector. The changed relationship with neighboring
countries and the sharp decline in foreign exchange funds is expected to
reduce supplies of fertilizers and other inputs by at least 50X compared to
recent years.
2.34     Project Actions.  The ERP would help to address the incremental needs
caused by the influx of returnees in three ways: firstly, by maintaining crop
and livestock production in priority areas of concentration; secndly, by
stimulating expansion of selected processing industries, particularly in rural
areas near to urban centers, thereby increasing the intake capacity from
farmer producers, providing the basis for increasing economic activity, and
creating employment opportunities; and finallv, by supporting a program for
conserving land resources and traditional terraces, and simultaneously
providing employment opportunities.
2.35     Cgngnet. Assistance under the ERC would involve two components:
a) For Crop Production: priority would be given to maintaining
output and increasing productivity by:
(i) improving land resources through the provision of gabion
materials for the construction of protection structures on
terraces and in wadis, thereby helping to improve the efficiency
of cultivated areas both by reducing erosion and by better water
retention and utilization; and (ii) delivering supplies of
fertilizers (15,000 tons), selected seeds 5,000 tons), crop
protection chemicals (5,000 lt/kg), small equipment, irrigation
apparatus, and spare parts for farm machinery.
b) For Livestock Production: priority would be given to maintaining
production and increasing productivity by:
(i) the supply of grains and additives to compound feeds for
stall-reared ruminants and small-scale poultry units; and (ii)
provision of equipment and veterinary medicines to help in
maintaining animal health, especially in the South where these
services have been neglected in the past.
2.36     Costs and Financing.  The total cost of this component is estimated
at US$9.7 million (Appendix III(D)(2)), which is mostly foreign exchange



- 12 e
costs. The credit would contribute about US$9.3 million and the remainder
would be borne by the Government.
3.       DraM= XNmaeamu Uit RatfisAted Cost 180.6 Rillin)
2.37     The PMU is officed in the HOC and the project would finance the
provision of equipment, vehicles, training and operating expenses in addition
to local personnel and the TA project Implementation specialist (12 staff
months). The total cost of the PHU is estimated at US$600,000, of which about
US$200,000 (for equipment) would be financed from the credit and the remainder
would be borne by the Government or other cofinanciers.
2.38     Procueat, Agricultural inputs would be procured by the Ministry
of Agriculture and Water Resources (MAWR) and sold to returnees through the
existing regional development agencies (RDA), following established
procedures. Goods would be selected in line with technically and
environmentally approved specifications decided by the General Department of
Plant Production and the General Department of Veterinary Services of the
MAWR, in collaboration with the RDAs and in line with IDA guidelines. Spare
parts for agricultural machinery would be procured by traders on the basis of
specified lists related to priority requirements.
2.39     Qrganization and Selection of Beneficiaries.  An assistant deputy
minister for MAWR has been appointed to coordinate the ministry's activities
under the project. Agreed criteria (Appendix III Dl) would be applied as far
as possible, in collaboration with the district administration and local
community representatives (LCCDs, cooperatives, and women's groups), to select
returnees as beneficiaries. The sector coordinator would ensure delivery of
inputs to areas of concentration of returnees in accordance with annual work
programs prepared by RDAs. On delivery, inputs would be sold to selected
farmers for cash or credit. Technical guidance would be assured through the
extension services of the RDAs (which are already responsible for implementing
IDA agricultural projects) and would be organized to focus on farming areas
where returnees are concentrated.
2.40     The existing monitoring systems in the RDAs and the General
Department of Planning and Monitoring, MAWR would be used to measure the
impact of the agricultural activities under the project, and the Sector
Coordinator would be responsible for preparing quarterly progress reports.
The question of assuring sustainability of inputs supplies (particularly
fertilizers) is being tackled in the context of IDA's ongoing dialogue on a
medium-term strategy for economic development.



- 13 -
III.     PROJECT COQIS.  FINANCING AND IKPLEIEKTATION
^lt|Jltd 2Pots
3.01        The Government cost estimates  for the ERP total US$245 million
(Appendix I). The relative allocations have been decided by the Technical
Coordinating Committee, which includes representatives from the sectoral
ministries involved. Subsequent prioritization is being decided on the basis
of total funding available, relative justifications, capacity for short-term
implementation and effectiveness for  tddressing the ERP objectives.
3.02        The  total cost of the ERC  iF  estimated at US$59.5 million  (rounded),
including physical contingencies of 101 and price contingencies at standard
rates for foreign costs and 30X for local costs (estimated on purchasing price
parity basis) and approximately US$30.7 million (521) of foreign exchange and
US$28.8 million in local expenditures (Table 3.01). The IDA credit would
finance foreign exchange  expenditures of approximately US$30.5 million and
local costs expenditures of about US$2.5 million.
Tabl2 3.01: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
lRts                        uS$                      X totat
,.............................. ..........................--.    Foreifn  as
Locat  Foreign    Tott     Locl Foreign   Total    Exchsw     Costs
..............................   ...........................  ....................
A. Roeds Sector                170.9    64.7   235.6        14.2    S.4   19.6        27.S    38.1
B. a m ing Sector               33.0    63.7    96.7         2.7    5.3    8.1        65.9    15.6
C. Agriculture Sector            5.1    97.4   102.5        0.4    8.1    8.5         95.0    16.6
0. Education Sector             88.1   98.0   177.1          ?.3    7.4   14.8        S0.3    28.6
E. Project Administration        2.5      3.8     6.3        0.2    0.3    0.5        60.3      1.0
Total OSELINI COStS            299.6   318.6   618.2        25.0   26.S   S1.S        51.5   100.0
Physicat Contingenies        30.1    34.4    64.5         2.5    2.9    S.4         53.3    10.4
Priee Contingecies           191.0   172.8   363.7        1.3    1.2    2.6         47.5     5.0
....................         ..................        ...........
Total PROJECTS COSTS           S20.7   5S25.8  1046.4       28.8   30.6   59.4        51.5   115.4
........ ...........may not add updue.. o. r       g..
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.



- 14 -
3.03     The categorization of costs between the five project components Is
summrixed in Table 3.02, below:
Zsks 3.02:  SUMMARY OP CATDGOOIZATION OF PROJ3CT COSTS
CoUMpnent-d Catgg=r                                    Gost
Local      JoreLn    Total
-----(US$ N Equivalent)----
Soclal  InfawastUcu
A.  Roads:       labor                        15.5
equipment, vehicles          0.3        5.0
and materials           0.7         1.3
Subtotal                                 16.5         6.3      22.8
D.  Serviced Housing Sites: civil works       2.7         5.9
vehicles & administration       0.5        0.3
Subtota1                                  3.2         6.2       9.4
Sub Total-Social In rast ucture          19.6        12.6      32.2
Strenthbenina of Social Services
C.  Education:   civil works                  7.0         4.6
equipment, vehicles
and materials       0.3         3.4
teacher training                        0.5
Subtotal - Sgcial Services                8.5         8.5      17.0
D.  AgF   ltu1 al Production:
crop production inputs         0.2        4.6
animal production inputs       0.1        2.1
equipment and spare parts      Q           Li
Subtotal - Agricultural Production        0.4         9.3       9.7
Proiect Administration
S. Program Manaaement Unit:
vehicles, equipment &
materials                    0.1        0.2
technical assistance           0.2        0.1
Subtotal - Prolect Administration         0.3         .30.6
Total Pro1ect Cost                       2Li         0LZ



- 15 -
Status of Cofinancinj
3.04        Humanitarian assistance under the ERP, which is being catered for by
UN agencies, NGOs and bilateral aid programs, is likely to continue for the next
year. Together with the IDA Credit, cofinancing agreed for the ERC with three
other aid agencies (UNDP, USAID, and Germany) totals US$53.0 million. The United
States of America and German Governments have confirmed willingness for local
funds held in revolving accounts (proceeds from sale of commodity aid) to be
applied to the ERC. For additional financing towards the costs of the ERP,
Government is following-up on indicative contributions from seven other
organizations (EEC, UNCDF, UNICEF, FAG, Islamic Development Bank, Netherlands,
and U.K.), totalling about US$33 million.
Project Implementation
3.05        An Emergency Steering Committee (ESC), chaired by the First Deputy
Prime Minister for Economic Affairs, was established in November 1990 to help
launch the ERP. A Technical Coordinating Committee (TCC) was established in
December 1990, under the chairmanship of the Deputy Minister for Projects,
Planning and Programming in MPD (who is also a member-secretary of the ESC), with
a membership including the deputy ministers of the key ministries involved as
sector coordinators. The TCC is responsible for designing program components,
approving work programs and budgets, ensuring fast implementation and monitoring
impact of the ERP/ERC.
3.06        A small program management unit (PNU) has been created for
coordinating the various sector activities under ERP, including: work programs
and budgets, procurement and disbursement of funds, arranging annual audits of
project accounts, monitoring impact and preparing progress reports. The PMU is
headed by a highly experienced and full time Yemeni Program Director (PD), of
sufficient status and authority to overcome administrative obstacles; he is also
a member/secretary of the TCC. In addition, two senior and experienced Yemenis
have been assigned to the PMU, the first to take full charge of project and
program accounting and, the second, to be responsible for coordinating
procurement.
3.07        Existing technical agencies in sector ministries would have prime
responsibility for project implementation, and their past records and experience
were important considerations in the final selection of project components.
Local communities (Local Councils for Cooperative Development (LCCD),
cooperatives, women's and youth groups) would be directly involved with work
programming, the recruitment of casual labor and the selection of beneficiaries
for housing and agricultural activities. The respective sector coordinators
would be responsible for ensuring implementation progresses on schedale.
3.08        All agricultural goods would be sold for cash or credit and the
Agricultural Credit Bank (CACB) and commercial banks all have sufficient
liquidity for providing credit where required. Administration of the financing
for spare parts under the agriculture component would be handled by commercial
banks, in collaboration with the CBY and MAWR, on the basis of an agreed positive
list of priority imports and with exchange rates being set at market levels. The
Government fixed the current exchange rate (YRls 12.0-US$1.0) in 5/90, and
subsequently the informal exchange rate has risen to about YRls 25/US$1.0. As
this differential might increase further under the influence of reduced foreign



- 16 -
exchange remittances, during appraisal, it was agreed that the CBY would,
whenever necessary, determine the market rate to be applied to all goods sold
directly to project beneficiaries.
3.09        Similar to the urban development fund established for the Sana'a
Urban Development Project (Cr 1441-YAR), a Deposit Account would be established
in the CBY for receiving revenues from sales of housing plots, and for
agricultural inputs.
3.10        Under the ERC, procurement of civil works, goods and services for
rural roads would be done through the MOC, for serviced housing sites through the
MHUP, for education facilities through the MOE, and for agricultural component
through MAWR.  In all cases, the existing sector implementation units are well
organized and experienced in procurement for IDA projects. To help in
accelerating the procurement process, at negotiations, standard documents were
agreed for all procurement under the project.  In addition, the PMU is
establishing office facilities in the MOC in close proximity to the High Tender
Board (HTB) and would coordinate the procurement administration for the ERC in
collaboration with the four sector implementation units and the HTB.
3.11        Technical Assistance Personnel.  In order to assist the Government in
coordinating the complex, multi-sector program implementation within the
emergency period, a project implementation specialist is being recruited,
internationally (12 staff months). He would help to initiate physical planning,
budgeting and financial management for inter-sector operations, to coordinate
procurement of goods, and to outline procedures for monitoring project
achievements (Terms of Reference, Appendix IV).
3.12        Procurement.  All contracts to be financed from the IDA Credit
proceeds would be procured in accordance IDA Procurement Guidelines. They would
be procured through simplified International Competitive Bidding procedures
(ICB), except for the following:
(a)     certain items identified as suitable for procurement through Limited
International Bidding (LIB), such as special equipment available with
a limited number of suppliers, would be procured by seeking bids from
a list of at least six eligible potential suppliers and subject to
the value of individual contracts and the aggregate value of such
contracts not exceeding US$1.0 million and US$8.0 million,
respectively;
(b)    force account procedures would be applied to roads construction (for
which IDA financing would be used only for the required equipment and
materials procured through competitive bidding), while Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures would be used for civil works
relating to classroom and housing site construction;
(c)    small value contracts would be procured through shopping
procedures, subject to the following: (i) price quotations would be
obtained from at least three eligible potential suppliers; and (ii)
wherever possible, quotations from eligible suppliers from at least
two countries would be sought; and (iii) the value of each contract
and the aggregate value of such contracts shall not exceed US$300,000
and US$3.0 million, respectively; and



- 17 -
(d)    direct contracting would be followed for proprietary items and spare
parts up to an aggregate not exceeding US$1 million.
3.13        All contracts above US$1.0 million would be subject to prior review
by IDA. Goods, works and services to be financed by other donors would be
procured following their respective procurement guidelines.
3.14        DLabursoments.  Disbursement of project funds would follow
established procedures and a Special Account would be established at the Central
Bank of Yemen at project effectiveness, with a deposit of US$3.0 million. With
appropriate supporting documentation, this would cover most expenditures, while
IDA would make large payments directly. Swift disbursement would be further
a.ded by the MPD delegating reimbursement claims to PMU; this was confirmed at
negotiations. If required, retroactive financing up to US$5 million would be
available under the IDA credit, with eligibility from March 15, 1991 when the
appraisal commenced.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.01        Benefits.  The ERC would enable Yemen to, at least partially, contain
the most damaging effects of the Gulf crisis. The project's principal benefits
would come from three main sources: (i) through the rural infrastructure and
rural development activities and the associated importation of goods, the project
would help to support continued physical and economic development; (ii) through
support for social services by provision of housing sites and educational
facilities, the project would encourage orderly resettlement of the returning
migrants and help to avoid the proliferation of urban slums and to minimize
pressures on the limited natural resources base; and (iii) through generating
employment opportunities for absorbing returnees into the labor force, the
project would help to sustain economic activity and help to discourage urban
drift. However, the overall impact of the operation would depend very much on
the total volume of external funds which can be mobilized in support of the ERP.
In addition, the initiatives for streamlining implementation and procurement and
disbursement procedures and for providing foreign exchange for specific private
sector operations would be expected to have longer term benefits for IDA's
regular operations.
4.02          Risks.  The risk of an overly complex project design has been
minimized by separating the immediate/humanitarian aid from the short-term
actions, by adopting a simple project design focused on four priority sectors,
and by using existing agencies for implementation. Another risk is that the
complexities of Government's procurement process could threaten the project's
underlying objective of speedy implementation. This has been minimized by prior
agreement on standard bidding documents, by streamlining procurement procedures,
and by allowing the PMU to approve procurement in place of the MPD. Finally, the
historic delays in confirming credit effectiveness in ROY would be minimized by
obtaining special clearance of the project documents by the Cabinet.



- 18 -
V. STATUS OF PROJECT PREPARATION AND AGREWUIMeN REACHED
5.01        Status of Prolect Proaliraton.  The following progress has been made
for initiating implementation of the ERC:
(i)   the PHIU has been established with an experienced Director General and
part-time assignment of an accountant, a procurement specialist and a
secretary.  An office has been established for PHU within the MOC
headquarters and in close proximity to the High Tender Board, and the
necessary equipment is being procured;
(ii)   the MOC, MOE, and MHUP are finalizing site planning, analyses and
construction schedules, and confirming land ownership; this would
mostly be completed by 7/31/91;
(iii)   sector ministries are finalizing the work program and budget for
1991/92; and
(iv)   documents are being prepared for advanced procurement using basic
tender documents agreed at negotiations and ongoing procurement
exercises of IDA projects are being examined by the sector ministries
to determine whether variation orders can be arranged.
5.02        Aggeaments Reached.  At negotiations, agreement was obtained from
Government on the following:
(i) cofinancing of US$20 million for the project, for which the Government
would take all possible measures to urgently have the cofinancing
declared effective or, at any rate, by 6/30/92;
(ii) procedures for monitoring of key implementation indices, and for
preparing quarterly progress reports as a basis for semi-annual meetings
between the Government and cofinanciers (Appendix II of the Technical
Annex);
(iii) establishment of Beneficiary Selection Committees for each housing site,
with application of: (a) criteria for selecting beneficiaries (as
stipulated in Appendix (III) of the Technical Annex), and (b) lease-
purchase agreements which are acceptable to IDA;
(iv) standard documentation and procedures for ensuring swift procurement, by
MPD delegating responsibility for approvals to PMU, in collaboration
with HTB; and
(v) procedures for project monitoring and reporting.



- 19                         -
Zarn. Bot fn -mm-Rmvha
For.a             a2. l    ,    otal
IuJ.7:  .qulpmasit 6 vehIcles                  3.5           0.5              4.0
otvu. torks                            1.0           1.0             2.0
teAcal esistan*o                      0,5                           0.5
opeset4*8o to st  mdI.iaes             1.0           1.0             2.0
hobtatml                                IA             LA              LA
8uu:  labor & tool,                                          60.0            40.0
,qui       tals  *es                  6.0            1.0             7.0
mwt.r.als                              2.0           1.0             3.0
Iubtas~a                                la            "A4            AM
ousi: construction nat4riael                    Li          40 0Ll
& enipusut
2UI)uau: crop inpts                            8.5           0.5              8.0
lvestok iaputs                     3.0                           3.0
equipmnt * s.rs                    5.5           0.5             6.0
I&D    :  eipnuet and spars                                   0.5 O.S41
bslLWal:
- iil works                        0.2           0.3             0.5
equipmnt & vehicles                 0.8           0.2             1.0
aperatIV4 costs                     0.2           0.3             0.3
brtotal                                               A              Li
Zdctfl: civil woAs                             4.0           6.0             10.0
OquipA t                            3.0           0.5             3.5
teacher trainin8                    1.0           1.5             2.5
operating costs                     0.2           0.8             1.0
Stol                                   La            LI
euiput                              0.7           0.1             0.8
operatin  costs                     0.1           0.8             0.7
Sbbtotal                              Li                     La
romental   C onDtism e                                                    ALI G Ll
Pro,)ct manamnt, etc.                          LA            0. L4
_            J PMNUMR-C4As-t                 L4            19Z              245.



- 20 -
Uh, tolIGlwIS aations. key to project iplenetatian, world be nonitord end inoluded in quarterly project
PROP"s  epwt ed reviewed at sii-nnual review mestings betwe  the Geverutent  d coftu              joier.
-Mainten_ce, otpogam . Snagement Unit witb
quatied Progrm Director though
l_atatio period                                        establishd  Mt                  a
-Aronet on taxms of r.tereanc  for uper
advisors en praourmt nd program mangamnt:              Otree  31101                    GM/IUA
-Ao  tmst of Yame  speciallsts for
pocuramet and accounting full-time to IUsi            by 71101                         (Y
-4ppoitment of Project Inpl.st.ation Specialist
nd advise IDI:                                        by 7/1/91                        K!D/MU
-Presentation of amnul work program and budgets         7/1l/01  thbn 11/30
for project, to     /oftinanoiers:                    esach sfabsuent year
of project
imlametation                    !U
-resentatin of  emiannual project progress
reports to cofinanciers                              starting 09/30/91               RV
-Semiannual review meetinrgs GR/oofinanciers           startiag 09/30/91
-Agreement an construction plans:
-for roads                                 agreed 06/01/91                  MOC/IDA
-for vocational training center (MOC)      agreed 08/01/91                  MOC/IDA
-Completion of construction
schedules, bUlls of quantities, etc.                     O/01/91                  GQ/W3 C
-Protam for construction:
-Of roads                                  starting 10/01 thra. 03/94         amB
-of vocational training center                      1002
-Program for road matntenance work                   starting 10192 thro. 12/4         SCam
-=tocurtment of construction & maintoenaoe equlpoent:                                  GCMI
-draft tender docunants to IDA                      08/01/01
-invitation to bid and
campletion of bids evaluation                   08-10/91; 10-12/02
-awards of contracts                       starting 10/91-1/92 to 10/92
a 1-6/03
-deliveries of equipeent                   starting 01/92 to 12J/3
* as soveral lots.
III ,.QQ"AB^2 Q!29RQQG
Socioeconomic team organisation                            01/31/91 thru 03/31/02
Survey of returnees/Preparation
of application forms                                     04/01/92 thru 07/31/92
Distribution of application forms                          08/31/92
Meetings of beneficiary selection
committees                                               08/31/92 thir 09/30/92
Collection of application                                  09/30/92 thru 10/15/92
Allocation of plots                               starting 03/31/03 tbru 12/31/93
Civil works groaram:                                                                         MUP
Detailed design                              completion by 08/31/91
Preparation of Tender Documents             completion by 08/31/91
Final Documents to IDA
fot approval                                         by 08/31/91
Invitation to Tenderers                                    08/19/91 thru 09/30/91
Blid Evaluation                                            09/30/91 tbru 11/30/91
Signing of contracts                                       11/31/91 thbr  12/31/91
xeocution of work                                          01/01/92 tbhu 3/31/93



* 21 *
IV.                      (responsibilities of
-Asemit ag oO5"uooSo  wSWt^
foA  elast Const                                        areed 03/31/91                NI/IS/
-Ute d"el  doments to IDA07011
-_inel aaple biddieg documants to IDA                    agreed 05/51i/1
-invitat*ion  to t _Meness                             sttn  06/20/91 thru 10/31/01)
-toitation to btds                                             07/31/91 tbru 12/31/91)
-Sigonin   ot bodstrcti3n ooats                                08/31/01 tbru 01/31/92)
-cpletio  ot construction of gl.so                             12/31/92              ) I/
-lrooureMmt ot education materia: 
-draft lists/tender doemmt. to IDA             07/01/91
-initiation of tendeing                        10/31/91              )
-ecpletion of bid evaluation                   1231/91 
-awads of contracts                            02/26/9               )
-deliveries of materials                            92               )
Progam for tacher traning:                                    W0
-agreement on training pro              agd 03/31/91
-geruittamt of speilst t      tainer           07/01/91
'trsaini   progr    (first  a)                 07/15/01
V. 6j42tt gspailitis of KMA)
- _Areemnt on typs of goods to be prooured:              agd 05/01/01                  Y/1DA
-Agreemet on poe0re for issuin
lettes of credit for procureat by traders:                    07/0/1                    fDA
-?ropoea   tram R3D   to W1J on tecnialcl
reqrm ts tor production goods:                    d   03/31/1                  WWIJ
-fecical detais of first trache of
goods to be pocured 1991/92 to IDA:                           05/10/S1
-onthly reprt to IDA (by telex) on letters
of credt issued bY Central aub' of Yemen:          c1i 08/31/01  /30
-Di,,n,al monitoring of Impact of goods procured:             12/316 6/90              11
-?ebnical details of secaod trancho of
goods to be proured 1992/93 to IDA:                          07/312                    R



* 22 v
Page I of 9
ENERENCY RECOVlW  PROJE
Schedule for Roads Constrtion
The roads for construction under the ERC have bF- n selected from the
approved national program and on the basis of their proximity to areas of
concentration of returnees. The component would include 140 km of secondary
roads and 270 km of feeder roads, together with essential equipment and
materials, plus rehabilitation of the Vocational Training Center of Aden. Map
IBRD 2292lR indicates the location of the roads to be constructed under the
project, as detailed below (in order of economic priority).
(i).  Ibb - Al -Rdav --Al Jarahi Rgad (125/90Q 1oaa.
Governorate:      Ibb and Hodeidah
Length:           125/(90) kin
Terrain:          Flat 25 km
Rolling 35 km
Mountainous 30 km
The Ibb-Al Udayn-Al Jarahi road is one of the most important corridors joining
the Central Highlands with the Tihama. Its most important purpose is the
exploitation of the important agricultural resources of the area receiving the
highest precipitation of rain in the Arabian Peninsula. The section Ibb-Al
Udayn (35 km) section with an asphalt concrete pavement, was inaugurated in
November 1989, and therefore, is not included in the Emergency Recovery
Project (ERP). The design of the 7 m wide asphalted carriageway and 1.0 m
wide gravel shoulders of Al Udayn-Al Jarahi section was completed in 1988.
The route crosses 76 villages and serves approximately 125,000 people, the
traffic volume is about 250 v.p.d. (15X heavy traffic). The estimated ER for
this road is 29X.
(ii).  Ar Rahida-Haifan Road
Governorate:     Taiz
Length:          14 km
Terrain:         Flat 2 km
Rolling 4 km
Mountainous 8 km
Ar Rahid-Haifan road is important as the main land connection between the
northern and southern parts of Yemen, Southeast of the city of Taiz. Main
activity in the area is agriculture, and the products are transported up to



- 23
Appendiz 111(A)
Page 2 of 9
Taiz. Detailed engineering planning was completed in 1989; the design
consists of a 7.0 m wide asphalted carriageway with 1.0 to 1.5 m wide
shoulders. The estimated traffic is 234 v.p.d. with 10 heavy traffic; the
estimated ER for this road is 27%.
(iii). Sana'a - Arhab Road
Governorate:     Sana'a
Length:          36 km
Terrain:         Flat 10 km
Rolling 18 km
Mountainous 8 km
Sama-Arhab road is a section of the Sana'a-Arhab-Al Jawf road connecting the
capital Sana'a to the provincial capital of Al Jawf in the Northeast of the
country. North of Sanr-a, one of the best quality grape fields is located
along this road. The road crosses wadi Herran which provides water for the
cultivation of the region. Besides agricultural activity, there are poultry
farms and small industries between Sama and Bayt Marran. The detailed
engineering design was completed in 1978. The design has a carriageway width
of 7.0 m with 1.0-1.5 m shoulders. Minimum pavement requirements of 5 cm
asphalt concrete and 15 cm course is recommended in the second phase (not
included in the project). This road serves many important villages and
hamlets. The average traffic is 228 v.p.d. (10X heavy traffic). The
estimated ER for this road is 26%.
(b)   Feeder Roads
Mi)    Taiz - Jabal Saber
Governorate:     Taiz
Length:          18 km
Terrain:         Mountainous
Jabal (mountain)-Saber is just south of Taiz city. It is densely populated
with an important agricultural activity. The road passes through many
villages and schools which are scattered on the Saber mountain. Traffic is
high in this feeder road with 68 v.p.d., mostly pickups transporting
agricultural products to Taiz. Major work would be the construction of
drainage structures to protect the road from erosion during the rains.
Important geometric improvements would also be necessary. The ER for this
road is 26X.



- 24 -
ADpendix XII(A)
Page 3 of 9
(ii)   Al Ashah - Sug Al Ahad Road
Governorate:     HaJja
Length:          14 km
Terrain:         Flat/Rolling (50/502)
Al Ashah is located at km 15 of the Huth-Harad road which runs in East-
western direction. Suq Al Ahab is an important market center located 14 km to
the Southwest of Al Ahad. Traffic is comparatively high on this road due to
the intensive agricultural activity and the Suq, and also due to numerous
villages served along the route. The daily traffic movement is 66 v.p.d.
which it increases about 100l on suq days (once per week). The ER for this
road is 25X.
(iii) Oaidah - Dih Sufal Road
Governorate:     Taiz
Length:          15 km
Terrain:         Flat 8 km
Rolling 7 km
Qaidah-Dhi Sufal road traverses a dense agricultural area.  Qaidah is located
on the Sana'a-Taiz road, 10 km north of the Taiz airport. The road serves an
area of intensive agricultural production and all the products need to be
transported to Qaidah and Taiz. The construction of the road would help
improve the agricultural potential of the area. The traffic on this road
consists of 66 v.p.d.. The ER for this road is 25X.
(iv) Sua Al Ma'ar - Al Zohra Road
Governorate:     Hajja
Length:          20 km
Terrain:         Flat
Suq Al Ka'ar is located at km 100 of the Hodeidah-Jizan road, which is the
primary road linking the country with Saudi Arabia. The road serves an active
area for agricultural production. About ten villages are served along the
route with a daily traffic volume of 62 v.p.d. During suq days (once a week),
the traffic volume increases considerably. The ER for this road is 23X.
(v)    Ad DAh   - Al Jadidab Road
Governorate:     Hodeidah
Length:          18 km
Terrain:         Flat



- 25
Aupendix III(A)
Page 4 of 9
Ad Dahi is located at km 45 on the Hodeidah-Jizan road. Al Jadidah is located
to the Southeast of Ad Dahi in the Tihama plains and, being in close vicinity
of wadi Surdud, it has developed into an intensive agricultural area. Along
the route to Al Jadidah, there are many villages which would be also
connected. The traffic carried mostly involves pickups with about 70 trips
per day. The ER for this road is 22X.
(vi)   Al Udavn - Al Hazm Rad
Governorate:    Ibb
Length:         20 km
Terrain:        Rolling 5 km
Mountainous 15 km
Ibb governorate has the highest rainfall in Yemen and in the whole Arabian
Peninsula. Consequently, agriculture is most intense in this region. The
road runs along the foot ox the hill along the wadi with agriculture on both
the banks.  In the mountainous section, as the road climbs to Al Hazm, there
is a high percentage of agriculture terraces along the route. As all the
agricultural products are brought to Al Udayn and Ibb towns, the traffic is
relatively high with about 65 v.p.d. The ER for this road is 22X.
(vfi) Aahem - "usher Road
Governorate:   Hajja
Length:        7 km
Terrain:       Mountainous
Kusher is the center of the Kusher district which is well populated and has
moderate agricultural activity. The original design for Huth-Harad road
envisages an access road to Kusher and the route develops in mountainous
terrain. Since this route is the shortest access to a paved road leading to
important towns and suqs (markets) such as Suq Aahem, Harad and Hodeidah, all
the traffic has to pass through Kusher, giving about 66 v.p.d. which increases
75X on suq days (once a week). The ER for this road is 231.
(viii) Rudum - Al Avn Road
Governorate:    Shabwah
Length:         20 km
Terrain:        Flat/Rolling 20 km



- 26 -
AQPeni nuII)A}
Page 5 of 9
This road is located in the Southern lowlands in the densely populated Shabwah
Governorate. It serves a number of villages along the route. Most of the
agriculture is along the wadi Nushaimah, a big wadi which serves the region.
Al Ayn has many natural hot springs and It is frequently visited by both local
and foreign tourists to benefit from the healing effects of the hot springs.
Traffic on this route is about 56 v.p.d. The ER for this road is 20X.
(ix)   Hamman Ali - Al Mashahidhah Road
Governorate:     Dhamar
Length:          9 km
Terrain:         Rolling 3 km
Mountainous 6 km
Hamman Ali is a densely populated town located 28 km west of the Sana'a-Taiz
road. This 9 km gravel road was constructed by the Ministry of Agriculture
and Fisheries to serve the agricultural potential in the area. Al Mashabidhah
is a region of high agricultural activity in close proximity to Hamman Ali.
Traffic movement is relatively high since all agricultural products are
transported to Hamman Ali and Al Mashahidhah, and other social services, such
as schools and clinics, are only available in Hamman Ali. The daily traffic
between Hamman and Al Mashahidhah is 55 v.p.d. with pickups being the main
vehicle type plying on this route. The ER for this road is 19X.
(x)    RABAT AL QILA - DHAFAR ROAD
Governorate:     Dhamar
Length:          16 km
Terrain:         Flat/Rolling 8 km
Mountainous 8 km
Rabat Al Qila is located at km 6 of Kitab-An Nadira road, which runs in the
eastwestern direction. Rabat Al Qila is a valley with high agricultural
activity. The road serves many villages along and, besides the traffic
movement for agricultural purposes, it attracts many tourists. Dhafar was the
capital of the last Himyarite Kingdom and this important historical site is
now included in most tourism itineraries. The traffic on the road is 53
v.p.d. The ER for this road is 181.
(xi)   Ar Rawdah - Ourer Road
Governorate:     Shabwah
Length:          8 km
Terrain:         Flat/Rolling 6 km
Mountainous 2 km



- 27 -
Anoendix XII(A)
Page 6 of 9
Al Rawdah is located 450 km east of Aden-Mukalla coastal road. The Aden
Mukalla road runs in the generally westeastern direction, but between Shagra
and An Rawdah, the alignment shifts in the northeast direction away from the
coast, to serve the population in the hinterland where the main occupation is
agriculture. Due to the dense population north of Aden-Mukalla road, it is
necessary to construct this road in order to connect with the main road in the
area. The traffic amounts to 53 v.p.d. The ER for this road is 18X.
(xii) A%shan - Al Sanan Road
Governorate:     Dhamar
Length:          8 km
Terrain:         Flat
This road starts from Ayshan which is located at km 11 of Dhamar-Husainiya
road connecting the Central Highlands to the Tihama region. This road runs
along a corridor of high agricultural activity in the vicinity of Dhamar town.
Both Nujaym and Sanan have primary schools and the secondary school students
need to travel to Dhamar. The traffic on this road is mostly pickups used by
farmers to transport their agricultural products to the Suq. The number of
trips along this route is 47 v.p.d. The ER for this roa4L is 16X
(xiii) Azzan - Al Hawtahb  oad
Governorate:     Shabwah
Length:          9 km
Terrain:         Rolling
Azzan is situated 460 km east of Aden on the Aden-tukalla road.  The route for
the road to Al Hawtah runs northeast along the major wadi which serves the
area (Amaqayn) which has moderate agricultural activity. The construction of
this road would connect Al Hawtah and its surrounding villages to the main
road and improve its agricultural potential. The traffic amounts to 44 v.p.d.
The estimated ER for this road is 13X.
(xiv)   Mariyah - Al Suwaida Road
Governorate:    Dhamar
Length:         3 km
Terrain:        Rolling
This road starts from Mariyah at km 15 on Dhamar-Dubah road and proceeds
northwesterly along the foot of the hills. The major activity in this area is
agriculture. The road would connect to a secondary road, thus providing
accessibility to the provincial capital Dhamar. The traffic on this road is
40 v.p.d. The ER for this road is 11.



- 28 -
AunmndI& etAl
Page 7 of 9
(xv)   RahAdah  - Al Oabaita I&gio  Roads
Governorate:     Taiz
Length:          78 km
Terrain:         Flat/Rolling 22 km
Mountainous 60 km
Al Qabaita region is located to the southeast of Rahidah. Rahidah is an
important town with markets, schools and a hospital serving the whole Qabaita
region. The 78 km length involves many segments, ranging in length from 3 to
20 km, to serve the villages scattered ln the mountainous region. Some of the
road construction has already been undertaken by the Government, but it needs
Lmprovements and drainage structures. Agriculture is low to moderate in this
region mostly depending on rainfall, although the valley Rama has natural
springs and has relatively good areas under cultivation. Construction of
feeder roads in the area would serve the population in terms of improved
opportunities in education, health, and agricultural developments. The roads
connecting various villages in the reglon are as follows:
Rahidah - Mughaniya                 20
Mughanya   Tujan - Rama             16
hLimious  Al Hanjarah                6
Al Armah - Kateem                   12
Ahlah - Al Abohiyah                 11
Tujan - Bani Hammad                 10
Najd Al Wazef - Al Hanaka            3
78
The average traffic on all of those roads is about 40 v.p.d. The ER is for
this road is estimated at 11.
(xvi) Halahit - Al &airL Road
Governorate:     Sadah
Length:          7 km
Terrain:         Flat/Rolling 4 km
Mountainous 3 km
Malahit is located at km 55 of the Harad - Sadh road. The construction of the
road would connect this village to Malahit which is the main suq in the
region. The traffic on this road amounts to 37 v.p.d. The ER for this road
is estimated at 9X.



- 29 -
Ansuedix !II(AM
Page 8 of 9
(c)  Equinment. Siare Parts and Mat_ial
20.  The cOat of the items specified in the table below would be financed
under the project:
Bsic List of Egoimient Incldn  nuat Tools. SMre Parts.
Tires and Naterials reluired for Coestructfa, and Maintenance
of Proteet Ego
L        DrO rftUon                      n Unit Prica   Totat Price tUSr
i      0t Du Trucks             10   tO,000        600,000
2      Voter Tankers            10    70,000        700,000
3      Vib. Rollers (Single Drum)  4    50,000     200,000
4      Vib. Rolters (Tend)       2    50,000       100,000
5      CoWpressors (742 CR})     6    50,000        300,000
6      Motor grader 180 hp       5    80,000        400,000
7       anual Tools (picks,     L.S.   L.S.         S00.00
shovels, hoes, wheel
borrows)
Subtotal                                   2,800,000
Spare Parts (105 of Equipant Cost)               280,000
Tires of different sizes (list vaft, NOC)      1,000,000
Materials. 6,000 tones cement US$?T/T           420000
TOTAL 4.S00,000
(d)   Vocational Training Center at Aden (VTCA)
21.   The construction industry is an important source of employment and
involves about 10 percent of all jobs in Yemen. To achieve higher technical
skills and better performance of local contractors, the Vocational Training
Center at Aden (VTCA) should be modernized to enable it to be fully utilized
in providing facilities for upgrading the skills of Yemeni artisans (masons,
plant mechanics, plumbers and sanitary workers, road supervisors, carpenters,
electricians). There are 1,100 contractors registered with the Ministry of
Construction (MOC), classified in different categories. These contribute to
the development of the construction industry in Yemen. In normal
circumstances, the demand of artisans by the Yemeni contractors (excluding
direct demand by the public) amounts to about 1,000 per year.
22.   The new buildings and facilities for VTCA would increase its capacity
for accommodating trainees, thereby helping local contractors and individual
artisans to cope more efficiently with the demands for construction and



- 30 -
Andix XXIMd
Page 9 of 9
unskilled personnel. Selection of trainees would be focused on returnees, to
develop skills which would facilitate their integration in the new economic
situation following the Gulf crisis. The new VTCA would accommodate about
1,000 unemployed workers, many of them returned migrants, per year with two
batches of 500 trainees (every training course lasts six months). The
training program in the VTCA would involve on-the-job training in the Public
Corporation for Construction (part of the N0C). After graduating, trainees
who complete the course with satisfactorily can join either the private or the
public sector.
23.   Construction of the facilities and procurement of the equipment (in
general by ICB, with International Shopping for contracts of less than
US$100,000) would take about one year and would generate employment for about
250 workers contracted ,s direct labor force of the MOC.  About 200 returnees
could be trained durin-n the one-year period of construction by 56 trainees and
teachers who constitut3 presently the docent staff of the VTCA. The total
replacement of the mn i.n building and the general stores (estimated cost:
US$500,000), the repiacement of the obsoleto equipment (estimated cost
US$500,000) would total US$1.0 million. Detailed designs for the VTCA are
complete and the relevant dossiers, with technical plans and cost data for
equipment, machinery and furniture for the different departments of the VTCA
(school, offices, workshops) are available in working papers.



- 31 -
ADDendix 111(31(1)
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
Serviced Housing Sites
Summary of Agreed Deve lopment Sites
Governorate              Town                       Approximate
Number of Plots
Uiadramout               Site 1                        375
Site 2                        375
Almahara                 Site 1                        175
Site 2                        175
Hodeida                  Hodeida                     1.400
Total:                                             2,500
AppendAI III(B)(2)
Page 1 of 2
Beneficiary Selection Criteria
The criteria to be applied in selecting beneficiaries of the Project for
sale of plots shall be the following:
1.    All beneficiaries shall meet each of the following mandatory
criteria:
(a)   returned to the Republic of Yemen after August 2, 1990;
(b)   do not own any other land in the vicinity;
(c)   the monthly income of the beneficiary's family shall not
exceed 5,000 rials per month; and
(d)   have the ability to pay at least 450 rials per month for the
lease of the serviced plots, in addition to sewerage, water
and electricity tariffs.



- 32 -
AopendSx II(B)(2)
Page 2 of 2
2.    The following factors shall be taken into account in assigning
priority to such beneficiaries:
(a) number of years spent outside of the Republic of Yemen; and
(b) number of children under 16 years of age.



- 33 -
Sb mr  of Now Clasaraog= to ke Camatrratad
Cbvermorz          urban  Rurzl  (1-8)   (1-6)        (1-6     P (7-1Z)    (1-12)  Sch Clsue
Sana'a              44     21      22       24          --         9        10    14      65
Aden                21     --      --        --         21        --        --      4     21
Tais                21      6       9       18          --        --        --      8     27
Hodeidah            34     15      13        18         --        18        --    13      49
Ibb                 18     13      13        3          --        1S        --    10      31
Dhbama              12      9      18       --          __         3        --      7     21
Hajah               29     12      32        6          --         3        --    12      41
Sad'da              12      3       9       --          --         6        --      5     15
Beida'a             21     1S      27        3          --         6        --    11      36
Mahweet              6       9      9         3         --         3        --      4     15
Marib                3       6     --         6         --         3        --      2      9
Hadramout           23      9      --       --          32                  --      9     32
Asoof                4     --       4                             --        --      1      4
LawJ                 6     11      --       --          17        --        --      5      17
abian                3     10      --       --          13        --        --      4      13
Shabwah              9     11      --       --          20        --        --      5      20
fahersh              4      --     --        --          4        --        --      1       4
TOTAL              270   10    1S         81         107        66        10    115    420
N. B. (a)    Eight new schools would be construoted for a total of 30 classrooms, all in rural
areas.
(b)     Four schools would have a total of 21 uppet floor classroom additions.



- 34 -
Appendizc IlI(If)(1)
Page 1 of 2
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
Agricultural Component
Beneficiary for Selection of Criteria
The Emergency Recovery Credit/Project (ERC) includes the contribution
of IDA towards the Government's Emergency Recovery Program (ERP), which is
focussed on providing assistance to emigrant citizens who returned to Yemen
due to the Gulf crisis (returnees). One component of the ERC would provide
part of the essential inputs necessary for enabling returnees to improve
agricultural productivity to help provide for incremental food requirements.
In order to ensure that returnees benefit from this assistance, the following
criteria would be applied to the sale of all agricultural inputs.
l(a)  Formal evidence of returnee status, either by official list or by
specific card or other formal identification provided by the
Government.
i(b)  Confirmation of returnee status by district office (DAO) of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (MAWR) and officials
of relevant Local Council for Cooperative Development (LCCD).
2(a)  Beneficiary being part of a family with dependents; not single.
2(b)  Confirmed as a priority for assistance by regional development
agency (RDA), DAO or LCCD based on social investigation data (due
to scarce resources or savings).
3.    Formal evidence (from RDA, DAO, or LCCD) Beneficiary has permanent
use or ownership of cultivable farm land.
4.    Beneficiary's commitment to full-time farming, involving crops
and/or livestock.
5.    Beneficiary has technical production plan, with list of inputs
required, agreed with field extension agent for the area.
6.    Specified means or arrangement for financing required inputs.



* 35 -
AnoendigxIII(
Page 2 of 2
UERICY RECOR   MZ
AULsktmaLS2=2U
Schedule for Goods to be Procured
The project includes provisions for procuring the following inputs for
crop and livestock production:
a) For crop production:
- gabion materials (2,500 m @ US$560)               1,400.0
- improved seeds   (5,000 ton @ US$200)             1,000.0
- fertilizers      (15,000 ton @ US$230)            3,400.0
- crop protection chemicals (10,000 lt @ US$40)       400.0
- spare parts for tractors & implements             1,200.0
- crop protection equipment                           200.0
Subgtotal                                          7,600.0
b) For livestock sroduction:
- compound feeds &
additives (7,600 tons @ US$260)                   2,000.0
- veterinary equipment & medicines                     200.0
Subtotal                                           2,200.0
Total Agricultural Component                       9.800.0



36 -
ADMUXLIL
Page I Of 3
1erm  of Reference for Technlcal Assltance Personnel
A.   Teacher Trainin. Snecigalit
Objectives of technical Assistance. The technical assistance for
teacher training aims to:
(a) Provide essential teaching skills to newly recruited teachers
through short courses of 12 weeks duration conducted in two or
three phases during vacations, at 25 centers in the country every
year to cover 3,000 teachers;
(b) Develop teaching learning packages in modular form which could be
used on an ongoing basis for conducting in-service teacher
training through proper design, development, try out and
refinement by an expert team; and
(c) Evolve a system for vacation training of in-service teachers by
setting up mechanisms for conducting such programs using the
packages developed.
A central technical assistance team would be formed, consisting of three
international consultants, expert in teacher education, and three senior
Yemeni counterparts from the MOE. This team would be responsible for: program
design, development of teaching-learning packages (TLPs), orientation of
teacher trainers in conducting the program using TLPs, setting up mechanisms
and working out logistics of orgar4zing training, and reviewing and refining
TLPs for continuous effective use. About 25 trainer teams would also be
organized, each consisting of one teacher training consultant and two Yemeni
counterparts. These teams would be responsible for: conducting short courses
during vacations as planned by the central team and HOE, assessing the teacher
trainees on the attainment of teaching skills, and providing feedback to the
central team for improving the program.
Consultant Oualifications
The international consultancies would have the following qualifications:



- 37 -
Angendix IV
Page 2 of 3
(a)   Specialist in teacher education and training - Masters degree in
education and 10-15 years experience in teacher training and
training of trainers and preparation of course material in package
form for teacher training; English proficiency, working knowledge
of Arabic.
(b)   Specialist in instructional resources design - Masters degree in
education with specialization in instructional resources
development and 10-15 years experience in teacher training and
media development; English proficiency, working knowledge of
Arabic.
(c)   Specialist in teacher training - Masters degree in education and
about 10 years experience in teacher training; English
proficiency, ability to conduct classes in Arabic.
Local counterpart qualifications would include doctorate or masters
degree in education and at least 5 years experience in teacher education.
B.    Project ImDlementation Sgecialist
Introduction
The Emergency Recovery Program (ERP) consists of multi-sector
developments to provide urgent assistance to returning Yemeni emigrants. The
ERP would focus on providing assistance through actions focused on social
infrastructures and social services and on incremental employment
opportunities and a Project Implementation Specialist would be appointed to
assist in the Program management.
The Project Implementation Specialist (12 months) would be responsible
to the program Director for assisting in coordinating physical planning,
budgeting, and administrative and financial controls for the ERP, in
coordinating inter-sector operations and in overseeing the monitoring of
project impact.
ResRonsibilities
The Project Implementation Specialist would have the following
responsibilities:



- 38 -
Aipendix IV
Page 3 of 3
a)    Preparation of a coordinated program for the ERP and a calendar of
actions, to reflect the commitments to separate sectors by the aid
agencies involved.
b)    Preparation of a coordinated financing plan for the ERP, showing
the flow of funds to the range of sectors and from different aid
sources.
c)    Design model annual work program for each sector involved in the
ERP, in consultation with the concerned sector ministries.
d)    Assistance in devising annual budget and financial control
procedures for the total Program and the IDA project.
e)    Assistance in finalizing procurement documents for the IDA credit,
and in coordinating procurement procedures for other aid agencies.
f)    Design of forms for monitoring the use of IDA and other ERP funds,
including movement and storage of stocks, analysis of
beneficiaries and impact of assistance.
g)    Assistance with drafting project progress reports.
Oualifications
The appointee should have a range of experience in line with the
following:
a)    A primary degree in accounting and post graduate training in
business management or development planning.
b)    Minimum of eighteen years working in design and implementation of
development projects, including at least ten years with management
responsibility in project implementation.
c)    Extensive experience in the design and application of project
control schedules, management accounting, financial controls,
auditing and monitoring.
d)    Working experience in Middle East countries.
e)    Fluent in Arabic and tEglish.



- 39 -
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
List of Documents in Project File
1.    Su1MDled by the Government and translated by IDA
(a)   The Integrated Program for the Improvement of the Returnees
Conditions.
(b)   Sector Proposals:  Construction (Roads)
Housing
Education
Agriculture
Rural Water
Health
Vocational Training
Electricity Supply
(c)   Description of the Emergency Recovery Project
2.    Emergencv Humanitarian Aid Program (UNDRO)
m:\f*A*w\wm\*mc



_______ ______ _______ ______ _______ ______ ______ _______ ______ _______ ______ _ _ -  IIBRD    22921  R
A -        ~    ~~~~      ~~LI  AA'E K ,<~PNX,RDEM,CAN'S
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
5  S A U D I A R A B I A                                                                  NsAi' _ ,A0 N.A3' A-
/~~~~~~~~
'S\ 9|<; / /S - o. R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NCRA7E E ..... NDARES
I'/ \A ONA. 3 ,_NDAR,ES
o\;O <^\5Be RA                                 1/e^ v Ezv oA .
0, 'k -v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s 
0
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Itfl~ °~                       I' I/C 'ICI '.2 \l  4,ii. 1 ~   !   A   _(         Sathv.                                    1
e^ae~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ao-,4  //CDX(  t  f/"2                                     ~                                              SOCOTR
DJIBOUTI                                                                                       5,<yS/\ YSO4~EGA                             12-
a   5   1 5"A 1991
MLOMETERS~~~iA 19 



