Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16619
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
(Credit 2258-YEM)
May 30, 1997
Natural Resources, Water and Environment Division
Middle East Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
(Credit 2258-YEM)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YR)
Official Rate       Market Rate
June 1991            US$ I = YR 12       US$ I = YR 29
October 1994         US$ I = YR 50       US$ 1 = YR 103
October 1995         US$ I = YR 90       US$ I = YR 112
December 1996        US$ I = YR 100    US$ 1 = YR 126
ABBREVIATIONS
CPPR         Country Portfolio Performance Review
ERCP         Emergency Recovery Credit/Project
ERP          Emergency Recovery Program
GCRB         General Corporation for Roads and Bridges
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
PMU          Project Management Unit
SIU          Sector Implementation Unit
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
VTC          Vocational Training Center
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
Vice President:            Kemal Dervi§
Director:                  Inder K. Sud
Division Chief             Salah Darghouth
Task Manager:              Jean-Francois Barres



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
(Credit 2258-YEM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pafe
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ......................................................                              i-iii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A .    Introduction   ..................................................1
B. Project Objectives and Design ................................................               2
C. Achievement of Objectives ...............................            .................       4
D. Project Implementation Record .................................................               5
E. Project Sustainability .................................................8
F.  IDA  Performance .................................................                           8
G. Borrower Performance ..................................................8
H. Assessment of Outcome ..................                ..............................       9
I.  Key Lessons Learned   .....................             ............................9
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:        Summary of Assessments .......................................                 12
Table 2:        Related IDA  Credits ...................            ....................       13
Table 3:        Project Timetable .......................................                      14
Table 4A:    Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated Actual ......                          15
Table 4B:    Allocation of Credit Proceeds .......................................             15
Table 5:        Key Indicators for Project Implementation .............. .......               16
Table 6:        Key Indicators for Project Operation ..............................            17
Table 7:        Studies Included in Project .......................................            18
Table 8A:   Project Costs .......................................                              18
Table 8B:    Project Financing .......................................                         18
Table 9:        Economic Costs and Benefits .......................................            19
Table 10:    Status of Credit Covenants .......................................                19
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ...........                         20
Table 12:    IDA  Resources: Staff Inputs .......................................              20
Table 13:    IDA  Resources: Missions .......................................                  20
ANNEXES
A. Mission's Memorandum of Understanding
B. Project Review from Borrower's Perspective
C. Comments from Government and UNDP on ICR
Map: IBRD 22921 R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
(Credit 2258-YEM)
Preface
1.   This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Emergency Recovery
Project in the Republic of Yemen, for which Credit 2258-YEM in the amount of US$33.0
million or SDR 24.8 million equivalent was approved on June 6, 1991 and declared
effective on November 5, 1991.
2.   The Credit was closed on December 31, 1996, after it was extended three times
from its original closing date of September 30, 1994. SDR 1.7 million of the Credit was
canceled as the result of the May 1995 Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR)
consultations between IDA and the Government, which took into account the status of
commitments under the project and the -outlook for project completion by the agreed
closing date. By May 1997, the Credit was fully disbursed.
3.   Parallel financing for the project was provided by USAID (US$15 million), Germany
(US$4.5 million) and UNDP (US$0.5 million). Total disbursements by the cofinanciers
reached US$19.0 million.
4.   The ICR  was prepared by Mr. Jean-Francois Barres, Principal Economist
(MN2NE), and S. Rangachar, Consultant. The ICR was reviewed by Mr. Salah
Darghouth, Division Chief, MN2NE and Tufan Kolan, Project Advisor, MN2DR.
5.   Preparation of this ICR began during IDA's final supervision/completion mission in
November 1996. The report is based on material in the project file, discussions with the
Borrower, and project data provided by the Project Management Unit (PMU). The
Borrower's own evaluation of the project and its implementation are attached (Annex B).
Comments from Govermnent and the UNDP on the ICR are contained in Annex C.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
(Credit 2258-YEM)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.   In late 1990, the Gulf Crisis caused a mass return-migration of some 750,000
Yemenis, including 320,000 children. The sudden influx equal to seven percent of the
resident population created an emergency situation which demanded a major relief effort.
Assisted by the United Nations Disaster Relief Organization the Government provided
immediate humanitarian aid to the returnees. In addition, an Emergency Recovery
Program (ERP) was prepared to meet their basic needs for food, shelter, social services
and employment over the medium term. The Program was designed as a multisector
operation, enabling the Government to coordinate assistance from a variety of donors.
Project Objectives
2.    The Emergency Recovery Credit/Project (ERCP) supported a set of core
components from the ERP. As part of the "Special Program for Bank Assistance in
Response to the Gulf Crisis" the ERC was designed to (a) provide additional education
facilities through the construction of 420 classrooms, provision of school equipment and
materials, and training of teachers; (b) support agricultural production with seeds,
fertilizers, pesticides, feedstuffs, veterinary products, equipment, spare parts, and flood
control materials (gabions); (c) procure equipment, materials and training for labor
intensive construction of 410 km secondary and feeder roads; and (d) prepare 2,500
serviced sites for housing construction by returnees.
3.    The project was estimated to cost US$59.5 million of which US$33.0 million
would be financed by IDA, US$20.0 million through parallel financing from USAID,
Germany and the UNDP, and US$6.5 million by the Government.
4.    The Borrower with assistance from IDA staff, prepared the project within three
months. Its design was well suited to respond quickly to the emergency situation. All
project activities were targeted to benefit returnees in 14 priority areas of the country,
providing them with essential social services, agricultural inputs and employment
opportunities. Disbursements were to be completed within three years.



ii
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    At the time of completion most of the project objectives had been achieved: 326
classrooms had been built, 19,899 student desks and other education materials purchased,
and 1,570 teachers trained; 320 km rural roads had been constructed, with more than one
third through rough mountain terrain, and 2,850 serviced- housing sites had been
developed; agricultural inputs for flood protection and food production had been procured
and distributed to small farmers and cooperatives. However, components for animal
feedstuff veterinary products and spare parts for farm equipment were canceled when the
distortion in the foreign exchange rate made impossible the involvement of private traders.
The Government is currently completing the remaining 94 classrooms and 38 km feeder
roads with its own resources.
6.    The project succeeded in meeting incremental needs generated by returning
Yemenis for education, road infrastructure, housing and food production. These benefits
are judged to be sustainable as project facilities will be completed and maintained by
existing national institutions. Most returnees have now been integrated in rural and urban
communities throughout the country. Their employment opportunities depend on the
general direction and scope of economic and social development in Yemen, which
continues to be supported by IDA projects.
7.    The actual costs of the project are estimated to have reached the equivalent of
US$67.2 million, of which US$33.0 million were foreign costs covering imports of goods
and services. With total disbursements of US$32.7 million, IDA financed 49 percent of
the project costs.  Another US$19.0 million were supplied by cofinanciers (USA,
Germany and UNDP), while the remaining gap (US$15.6 million) was financed by the
Government.
8.    Project implementation took significantly more time than expected, and the closing
date had to be extended by over two years. The delay was caused by three factors: (a)
until 1995, a rigid foreign exchange policy which failed to adequately compensate local
contractors for losses inflicted by domestic inflation; (b) slow work of the implementation
units, reflecting the general weakness and cumbersome procedures of public
administration in Yemen; and (c) a civil war which interrupted implementation for several
months in 1994 and caused some damage to project facilities in the southern part of the
country. Nevertheless, the five-year completion period is still good compared with other
projects in Yemen and the Region.
9.    The achievement of project objectives was substantially facilitated by: (a) an
adequate institutional setup for the implementation of a project involving several
ministries; (b) implementation units, while often slow, were operating effectively; (c) high
level political support for the project; (d) intensive supervision by IDA staff through
efficient coordination among the three sectoral divisions concerned; and (e) flexible



iu
response of lender and borrower to changing circumstances during project
implementation.
10.   The overall performance of IDA and the Borrower are rated satisfactory. Most
Credit covenants have been complied with. Audit reports were submitted to IDA and were
found to be of acceptable quality.
Summary of Findings and Key Lessons Learned
11.   The project succeeded in providing essential support for the reintegration of
returnees, albeit on a somewhat smaller scale than originally planned and with considerable
implementation delays. Overall, the outcome of this project is judged to be satisfactory.
No follow-on operation is planned.
12.   The following lessons can be drawn from the experience of this project:
(a)   Good project preparation and design, as well as strong political support for
the project objectives, are essential for a successful outcome of the
operation.
(b)   Project execution (components covering four different sectors: agriculture,
education, roads and housing) can be efficiently addressed by the direct
involvement of established sectoral institutions - line ministries and by
limiting the role of the Project Management Unit (PMU) to overall
coordination of procurement and disbursement.
(c)   For projects of this nature, which require a lot of adaptation during
implementation, a resident mission can provide strong and cost-effective
support to headquarters staff. Pro-active supervision and close monitoring
of implementation by the Task Manager are important for effective project
outcome.
(d)   Failure to adjust macro-economic policies - in this case a rigid exchange
rate - can seriously undermine project execution.
(e)   The design of an emergency operation should take into account the
duration of the hardship created by the emergency. The short-term needs
of the returnees was addressed by the project by importing agricultural
inputs. The continuing needs of the returnees in the communities where
they relocated were met by expanding the education, rural roads and
housing infrastructure.



iv
(f)   For any emergency operation, a national high-level committee to oversee
and monitor the program can be an effective mechanism.



I
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
(Credit 2258-YEM)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction
1.  In late 1990, the Gulf Crisis caused a mass return-migration of some 750,000 Yemenis.
The influx included about 430,000 people of working age, mainly single and unskilled men,
and some 320,000 children of whom 60 percent were of school age. The majority of returnees
dispersed to different parts of the country, mainly rural areas, where they had family
connections and found at least temporary accommodation. Still, the sudden and massive influx
amounting to almost 7 percent of the resident population created an emergency situation
which led to: (a) an immediate demand for additional food supplies, shelter and social services,
including education facilities for the school age children; (b) serious economic dislocations
resulting from losses in foreign exchange remittances (over US$1 billion p.a.), grant aid and
government revenue, as well as increased demand for essential imports; and (c) a dramatic
increase of the already high number of unemployed (from about 400,000 to more than
700,000).
2.   Reacting to the crisis, the Government, assisted by the United Nations Disaster Relief
Organization, provided immediate humanitarian aid to the returnees.  In addition, an
Emergency Recovery Program (ERP) was prepared to meet the basic needs of the returnees
for food, shelter, social services and employment over the medium term. To address these
objectives, the Program included provisions for (a) supporting production and employment in
agriculture and fisheries; (b) constructing roads, rural water supplies and housing; (c)
promoting private sector activities; and (d) strengthening social services (basic education and
health) and vocational training. The Program was designed as a multisector operation,
enabling the Government to coordinate assistance from a variety of donors, and to match each
aid to sectoral priorities and absorptive capacities for fast mobilization and implementation.
The total cost of the ERP was estimated at US$245 million. IDA assisted the Ministry of
Planning and Development in preparing the Program.



2
B. Project Objectives and Design
3.   The Emergency Recovery Credit/Project (ERC) enabled IDA to support a set of core
components from the ERP. As part of the "Special Program for Bank Assistance in Response
to the Gulf Crisis", it operated within the Bank's policy for emergency lending, which covers
extraordinary events of limited duration causing serious dislocations to a country's economy
and calling for a quick response from governments and the Bank. Experience with the IDA
assisted Emergency Flood Protection Project (Credit 2073-YEM) was valuable in guiding the
design for the ERC, as have the lessons learned from previous IDA operations in the key
sectors involved in the ERP, including the need for simple project design and managing the
project through existing institutions.
4.   The project objectives were to help meet the needs of returnees for essential social
services, expand the social infrastructure including housing, maintain basic nutritional levels,
and expand employment opportunities to reintegrate retuming workers into the economy.
Actions were targeted to 14 geographic areas of concentration of retumees. Construction
focused on small, labor-intensive structures for which models already existed, and with
emphasis on quick implementation and wide distribution of benefits. The major project
components were as follows:
(a)   Strengthening essential social services through: construction of 420 classrooms,
equipment, materials and teacher training, to meet the increased demand for
education facilities from retumees (US$17.0 million).
(b)   Expanding social infrastructure through: procurement of key equipment,
materials, and training, for (i) labor intensive construction of 410 km secondary
and feeder roads related to centers of concentration of retumees (US$22.8
million); and (ii) construction of 2,500 serviced sites on which houses could be
built by retumees (US$9.4 million).
(c)   Supporting agricultural production through: provision of gabion baskets (to help
in land and water conservation), as well as supplies of seeds, chemicals,
fertilizers, spare parts for farm machinery, feedstuff and veterinary products,
thereby reducing the need for incremental food imports and helping to ensure
basic nutritional standards for retumees (US$9.7 million).
(d)   Strengthening program  management through: equipment, vehicles, training,
operating expenses and technical assistance for planning and procurement
(US$0.6 million).
5.   The total cost of the project (including contingencies) was estimated at US$59.5 million,
with a foreign exchange component of US$30.7 million (52%). IDA would finance 55 percent
of total project costs (US$33.0 million equivalent); the remaining costs would be covered by
three bi/multi-lateral donors (US$20.0 million equivalent) and the Govemment (US$6.5



3
million equivalent). To provide for early start-up of project activities, IDA's contribution
included provision for US$5 million of retroactive financing (equivalent to 15% of the Credit).
6.   Evaluation of Objectives. The above objectives were consistent with Yemen's priorities
and implementation capacity as well as IDA's country assistance strategy. The project design
provided an adequate balance between actions well suited to respond quickly to the emergency
situation (agriculture component) and actions with more long-term and durable impact on the
needs of the retumees (education, roads and housing components). With the exception of the
housing component concentrated in Hodeidah, all project activities were targeted to benefit
retumees in different parts of the country, providing them with essential social services,
agricultural inputs and employment opportunities. At the time of Board presentation, project
preparation was well advanced. A Project Management Unit (PMU) had been established
with an experienced Director General; technical line-ministries involved were finalizing site
planning and construction schedules, and confirming land ownership; procurement documents
were under preparation; and procedures for monitoring key implementation indices had been
agreed upon. As soon as the project started, the line-ministries involved established their
respective Sector Implementation Units (SIUs).
7.   Changes in Project Design. During implementation the project design was modified, and
the Credit Agreement was amended twice. These adjustments were made in response to
changing circumstances and with the aim of overcoming implementation problems while
maintaining the project's basic objectives. The first amendment became effective in March
1994 when high cost overruns for civil works threatened to exhaust IDA resources
prematurely. Accordingly, lDA's share in the cost of civil works was reduced from 55 percent
to 16 percent under Part A 2 (classrooms), and from 85 percent to 50 percent under Part A 3
(housing sites). Also, civil works for the Vocational Training Center (VTC) in Aden (not
included in the original Credit Agreement) were added to Part A I (roads) with a cost sharing
of 50 percent. A second amendment (May 1996) reallocated the remaining IDA resources
among categories, and raised the cost sharing for classroom construction from 16 percent to
40 percent. The result of these changes was to increase the allocation for civil works and
construction equipment/materials while reducing the allocation for agricultural inputs (Table
4B).
8.   Following the Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) in May 1995, SDR 1.7
million of the unallocated portion of the Credit (SDR 2.7 million) was canceled (September
1995). The remaining SDR 23.1 million were completely disbursed. As the SDR appreciated
substantially against the US$ during the time of implementation, the total US$ amount
disbursed for the project (US$32.6 million) came very close to the appraisal estimate of
US$33.0 million (Table 4A).



4
C. Achievement of Objectives
9.   Project Components. At the closing date most of the project objectives had been
achieved (Table 5). Of the 420 classrooms, a total of 326 classrooms had been completed and
will be fully utilized in the current year. The remaining 94 classrooms are being completed by
the Ministry of Education with its own budgetary resources. Procurement of student desks and
school equipment significantly exceeded the appraisal estimate. About 1,570 teachers were
trained, somewhat less than originally planned (2,000).
10. As against 410 km of secondary and feeder roads included in the project originally,
about 320 km were constructed, of which more than one third through rough mountain
terrain. The quality of construction is generally acceptable, although some drainage structures
were omitted which can lead to erosion damage. The roads have been taken over by the
General Corporation for Roads and Bridges (GCRB), which will maintain them; the GCRB
also intends to complete unfinished work including the construction of drainage structures.
The total length of roads would then reach the revised project target of 358 km. Vehicular
traffic on most roads is much heavier than expected. These roads are expected to facilitate the
integration of the returnees in the remote and isolated parts of the country.  Direct
employment generation in road construction was less than anticipated due to the lack of
experience of GCRB in organizing high labor intensive road construction. Another project
component that has been completed is the expansion and furnishing of the Vocational Training
Center (VTC) for road and construction workers in Aden.
11.  The number of serviced housing sites built under the project (2,850) was higher than
the appraisal estimate (2,500). The sites are sold to retumee families at prices which ensure
cost recovery. However, the criteria of cost recovery has excluded the jobless returnee families
and some lots have been allocated to Hodeidah residents. Demand for the housing plots is
strong, and construction of private dwellings on them has already started. Through the
construction of a modern and well-equipped neighborhood in Hodeidah, the housing
component was designed to address the long term housing needs of Hodeidah instead of
providing immediate but short term housing to the returnees. Both options were discussed
during project preparation, and with the concurrence of IDA, the Government opted for the
long-term solution.
12. To secure food production, flood protection materials (gabions), fertilizers and seeds
were directly imported in quantities matching those agreed upon during negotiations by the
Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources. Imports of other agricultural inputs (e.g.,
sprayers) fell substantially short of their targets, while most of the imports of animal feedstuffs
and veterinary products were canceled when it became obvious that distortion in the exchange
rate made it impossible for private traders to access the foreign currency provided by the
project. The agricultural inputs have been distributed to the designated target areas, and most



5
of them have been sold to local farmers and cooperatives using the foreign exchange market
rate prevailing at the time of distribution. Initially restricted to the returnees, the sale of inputs
was extended to all farmers and retailers.
13. A later addition to the project - the completion of a VTC in Taiz that was started under
an earlier IDA project, the Technical Training Project (Credit 1645-YEM) - was implemented.
Further details on the achievement of sectoral objectives are given in Table 6.
14.  Project Costs and Financing. The actual costs of the project are estimated to have
reached the equivalent of US$67.2 million (Table 8A), about 13 percent higher than the
appraisal estimate (US$59.5 million). Close to half the total (US$33.0 million) were foreign
costs mainly covering imports of goods and services. The US$ value of local costs (US$34.2
million) was obtained by converting them at official exchange rates which, however, inflates
the real value of such expenditures. If prevailing market rates are used for the conversion, the
actual costs of the project expressed in US$ would be close to the appraisal estimate.
15. The basic structure of project costs changed somewhat during implementation. The
education component claimed the largest share of expenditures (US$29.1 million), followed by
the costs of road construction (US$23.4 million) and housing sites (US$9.9 million). The
costs of agricultural inputs (US$4.4 million) were only about half the appraisal estimate.
16. With total disbursements of US$32.7 million, IDA financed 49 percent of the project
costs (Table 8B). Another US$19.0 million (28 percent) were supplied by the cofinanciers
(USA, Germany and UNDP). The remaining gap (equivalent to US$15.6 million at official
exchange rates) was financed by the Government.
17. Disbursement of IDA Funds. At the closing date (December 31, 1996) disbursements of
Credit 2258-YEM had reached SDR 21.9 million, or 95 percent of the total Credit amount
which had been reduced to SDR 23.1 million in September 1995. All of the remaining funds
(SDR 1.2 million) were subsequently disbursed on the basis of expenditures incurred before
the closing date.
D. Project Implementation Record
18. Project preparation by the Borrower, with assistance from IDA staff, took only three
months. An appraisal mission visited Yemen in March 1991. Negotiations were held in early
May, and the Credit was approved by the IDA Board on June 6, 1991. The Credit Agreement
was signed on June 20, 1991 and became effective on November 5 of that year. The original
closing date was set for September 30, 1994 (Table 3).



6
19.  Implementation Experience. Project implementation started expeditiously due to the
advance preparation and good initial performance of the Project Management Unit (PMU) and
Sector Implementation Units (SIUs). However, early in 1992, a dispute arose about
compensation payments for PMU staff which led to a five months hiatus of PMU activities.
While SIUs continued their work, there was virtually no overall project coordination and
supervision. The dispute was resolved in July of that year by the Minister of Construction
(MOC) and a new Director General of the PMU was appointed. This strengthened project
management and progress in implementation was improving. Still, early in 1993 the project
was running 6-12 months behind schedule.
20. During the same period, inflationary pressures in Yemen caused large cost overruns for
civil works (about 30%). Contractors were not compensated for the rising costs as there was
no price escalation clause, and no adjustment in the official exchange rate used for converting
IDA funds into local currency. Although the Government promised to cover the additional
costs through the general budget, such payments were not made. As a result, contractors
became increasingly reluctant to carry on with their work, and by the end of 1993, most
building activities under the project had slowed down to a trickle. An exception was the
component for housing sites where after two failed tenders, a contract was signed only in July
1993 with 50 percent of the contract payable in US$ converted at the official foreign exchange
rate of YR12/US$1. This provision ensured a smooth implementation of the component.
21. Imports of equipment, materials and agricultural inputs, which were largely financed
from IDA funds, experienced fewer delays and by mid-1993 more than half of these goods had
reached their destination in the country. Only a large contract for combined student desks was
held up by the High Tender Board which had selected a local supplier after using the
prevailing market foreign exchange rate of YR100/US$1, while the use of the official rate of
YR12/US$1 by the Evaluation Commission had led to the selection of a foreign supplier as the
lowest evaluated responsive bidder. After some delay, the first of three two-year programs for
teacher training started in November 1993.
22. Rising political tensions between the northern and southern parts of the country led to
open hostilities from May to July 1994. Most project activities were interrupted for several
months, and some project equipment was lost by looting in the VTC of Aden. Under the
circumstances, the Government requested a 15 months extension of the closing date. IDA
initially agreed to an interim extension to December 31, 1994. After a review in
October/November 1994 of the project status and progress in implementation, IDA agreed to
a further extension to December 31, 1995.
23. Devaluation of the Yemen Rial from YR 12 to one US dollar at the time of appraisal to
YR 50 in October 1994 and again to YR 90 in October 1995, together with the resolution of



7
outstanding compensation issues by the Government in November 1995, following the CPPR,
eased the financial burden for local contractors and expedited the remaining civil works. But
as time was running out, IDA agreed to another extension of the closing date until December
31, 1996. Implementation of the last project components proceeded without further problems.
24. In summary, the delays in implementation were caused mainly by three factors:
(a)   A rigid foreign exchange policy and the absence of a price escalation clause
which made local contractors bear the full impact of domestic inflationary
pressures;
(b)   Deterioration of the effectiveness of the PMU after the merging of the Housing
and Construction Ministries and insufficient coordination between PMU and
SIUs reflecting the general weakness and cumbersome procedures of public
administration in Yemen; and
(c)   A civil war which interrupted implementation and caused some looting and
damage to project facilities.
25.  Factors affecting Project Results. The results of the project, which has been largely
successful, were substantially affected by the following factors:
(a)   The SIUs, while often slow, were by and large operationally effective as they
worked through existing institutions, drawing on their support and administrative
experience. The PMU received special support from the Minister of
Construction;
(b)   The existence of an Emergency Steering Committee, headed by a Deputy Prime
Minister, generated high level political support during the first years of the
project;
(c)   Successful collaboration and team work by the three Divisions of IDA's Middle
East Department (the Agriculture, Infrastructure and Human Resources
Divisions) and intensive supervision by IDA staff (para. 28), reinforced since
November 1995 by the establishment of a Resident Mission in Sana'a to which
several project supervision activities were transferred;
(d)   Pro-active supervision and close monitoring of implementation by the Task
Manager; and
(e)   Borrower and IDA were flexible and responsive to changing circumstances
during project implementation.



8
E. Project Sustainability
26. The project succeeded in meeting incremental needs generated by returning Yemenis for
education, road infrastructure, housing and food production. It also provided employment
opportunities for returnees both in construction and agriculture. These benefits are judged to
be sustainable for the following reasons:
(a)   Classrooms will be maintained by the Ministry of Education.  A five-year
program to continue distance teacher training over the medium-term is under
preparation;
(b)   The secondary and feeder roads are now being maintained by the General
Corporation for Roads and Bridges as part of its national maintenance program;
(c)   Housing sites provided by the project are being sold mainly to returnees at prices
that ensure full cost recovery. Construction of houses has started; and
(d)   Agricultural inputs are still being sold to small farmers, many of them returnees.
Gabions are used to strengthen flood control structures thus sustaining the level
of food production in future years.
27. Most returnees have now been integrated in rural and urban communities throughout the
country. Their employment opportunities depend on the general direction and scope of
economic and social development in Yemen, which continues to be supported by IDA
projects.
F. IDA Performance
28. IDA staff responded quickly to the emergency situation, helping the Government to
prepare a project that was well suited to support the reintegration of returnees. During
implementation, IDA's close supervision of project activities (Table 13) provided essential
support and guidance to the Borrower. Almost all supervision missions included various
technical specialists from three Department's Sector Divisions of Agriculture, Infrastructure
and Human Resources. To ensure the completion of major project components, IDA agreed
to some reallocation of resources and extensions of the closing date as described above.
Overall, the performance of IDA is rated satisfactory to highly satisfactory (Table I).
G. Borrower Performance
29.  The project received strong institutional and political support from the Government.
Technical ministries and their SIUs were generally motivated and cooperative. The good
performance of the SIU-Housing has been facilitated by the simple design of the component



9
concentrated in a single location, Hodeidah. The SmU-Agriculture has been more efficient in
handling international procurement of inputs, than organizing distribution and cost recovery
among the different Governorates and Services. The SIUs for the Roads and Education
components have benefited from their strong integration in their line ministries. However,
they faced major problems in the execution of the civil works caused by an inflexible exchange
rate policy (para. 23) over which they had no control. The performance of the PMU in the
coordination of procurement has been satisfactory; however, the PMU was less effective in
supervising numerous project sites scattered all over the country and did not provide adequate
transportation facilities to the SIUs.
30. With the exception of the Housing Component, all Credit covenants have been complied
with (Table 10). The PMU maintained accurate records of project accounts which were
audited by private auditors. The audit reports were submitted to IDA and were found to be of
acceptable quality. The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory (Table 1).
H. Assessment of Outcome
31. The project succeeded in providing essential support for the reintegration of returnees,
albeit on a somewhat smaller scale than originally planned and with considerable
implementation delays. Basic social and development objectives were achieved in the target
areas through the provision of additional education facilities; the construction of rural roads
which are now extensively used; the support of private dwellings built by returnees; and the
promotion of food production through agricultural inputs and flood protection. Many
returnees were employed in project related civil works while others benefited as farmers from
the agricultural component of the project. Project facilities will be maintained as part of
national maintenance programs, thus sustaining project benefits in future years. Overall, the
outcome of this project is judged to be satisfactory (Table 1). Given the emergency nature of
this operation, no follow-on operation is planned. However, in designing the recently
approved Emergency Flood Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2932-YEM), the lessons learned
under this credit have been taken into account. Should in future another emergency arise, the
Ministry of Planning and Development - which had played a leading role in designing this
project - would be well equipped to prepare appropriate project or program.
I. Key Lessons Learned
32. The following lessons can be drawn from the experience of this project:
(a)   Good project preparation and design, as well as strong political support for the
project objectives, are essential for a successful outcome of the operation;



10
(b)   Project execution (components covering four different sectors: agriculture,
education, roads and housing) can be efficiently addressed by the direct
involvement of established sectoral institutions - line ministries and by limiting
the role of the PMU to overall coordination of procurement and disbursement;
(c)   For projects of this nature, which require a lot of adaptation during
implementation, a resident mission can provide strong and cost-effective support
to headquarters staff.   Pro-active supervision and close monitoring of
implementation by the Task Manager are important for effective project
outcome;
(d)   Failure to adjust macro-economic policies can seriously undermine the execution
of projects - in this case a rigid exchange rate which failed to shield local
contractors from the impact of domestic inflation;
(e)   The design of an emergency operation should take into account the duration of
the hardship created by the emergency. The short-term needs of the returnees
was addressed by the project by importing agricultural inputs. The continuing
needs of the returnees in the communities where they relocated were met by
expanding the education, rural roads and housing infrastructure; and
(f)   For any emergency operation, a national high-level committee to oversee and
monitor the program can be an effective mechanism.



11
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
(Credit 2258-YEM)
PART I. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related IDA Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4A:    Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 4B:    Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project
Table BA:    Project Costs
Table BB:    Project Financing
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Credit Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    IDA Resources: Missions
ANNEXES
1:      Mission's Memorandum of Understanding
2:       Project Review from Borrower's Perspective
3:       Comments from Government and UNDP on ICR



12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. ACHIEVEMENT
OF OBJECIMS        SUBSTANTIAL           PARTIAL           NEGLIGIBLE       NOT APPLICABLE
Macroeconomic Policies                                                                X
Sector Policies                                                                       X
Financial OiRjectives      X
sutional Dcv.                                  X
Physical Oljectives        X
Povety Reduction                                                                      X
Gender Concemns                                                                       X
Other Social Obj.          X
Envirmen  Obj.             X
Public Sector MgL                                                                     X
Pnivac Sector Dev.         X
B. PROJECT
SUSTAINABILITY          LIKELY             UNLIKELY           UNCERTAIN
x
C. BANK                 HIGHLY
PERFORMANCE          SATISFACTORY        SATISFACTORY         DEFICIENT
Identification             X
Preprtion Assistance       X
Appraisa                                       X
Supervision                X
D. BORROWER             HIGHLY
PERFORMANCE          SATISFACTORY        SATISFACTORY         DEFICIENT
Preparation                                    X
bIlentation                                    X
Covenant Compliance                            X
Opeation                                       X
L ASSESSMENT OF         HIGHLY                                                     HIGHLY
OUTCOME              SATISFACTORY        SATISFACTORY      UNSATISFACTORY   UNSATISFACTORY
x



'3
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
YEAR OF
CREDIT rTILE                      PURPOSE                   APPROVAL              STATUS
Preceding Operations
Credit 1295-YEM          Implement road construction program of   October 1982  Completed
Roads Flood              major damages caused by heavy floods of                satisfactorily
Reconstruction Project   1982 and 1983. Rehabilitation of road
maintenance centers and provide a
transport sector study
Credit 2073-YEM          Assist with the restoration of essential  December 1989   Completed
Emergency Flood          economic infrastructure destroyed or                   satisfactorily
Protection Project       damaged by heavy rains; strengthen
institutional capacity to manage disaster
recovery programs; serve as a catalyst for
donor financing and coordination of the
flood-damage reconstruction effort;
restoration of social services and shelter
Credit 2160-YEM          Major civil works; equipment and TA   June 1990        Ongoing satisfactorily
Taiz Flood Disaster
Project
Following Operations
Credit 2940-YEM          Structural reform and Economic recovery   April 1996   Ongoing satisfactorily
Emergency Recovery
Credit 2932-YEM          Restore country's essential infrastructure   Decenber 1996   Credit became
Emergency Flood Rehab.   (roads, agriculture, rural water supply)               effective on March 21,
Project                  damaged by the 1996 floods and provide                 1997; implementation
basis for flood preparedness and                      ongoing satisfactorily
mitigation                                           I                     I



14
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle     Date Planned          Date Actual/Latest
Estimate
Identification                                           12/90
Preparation                                             01-03/91
Appraisal                                                03/91
Negotiations                                            05/06/91
Board Presentation              05/20/91                05/20/91
Signing                                                 06/20/91
Effectiveness                   09/30/91                11/05/91
Project Completion              03/31/94                   1/
Credit Closing                  09/30/94                12/31/96
1/ Remaining project components relating to schools and roads are being completed (see
paras. 9 and 10).



1s
Table 4A: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(USS Million)
i   FY92        FY93        FY94       FY95       FY96       FY97
Appraisal Estimate             17.0         23.5        30.0       33.0      33.0        33.0
Actual                          3.0         11.8       21.3        24.3      31.0        32.7
Actual as % of Estimate         18          50          7 1         74        94          99
Table 4B: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
(SDR Million)
ORIGINAL          REVISED           DISBURSED
CATEGORY           ALLOCATION    ALLOCATION a/              05/30/97      UNDISBURSED
Civil Works                   9.30              10.95             11.09                -
Equipment & Materials         7.90              9.08               9.18                -
Agricultural Inputs           4.60              2.70               2.53                -
Technical Assistance          .30                .30               0.30                -
Unallocated                   2.70              .07                .00                 -
TOTAL                        24.80             23.10 b/           23.10
_/ May 1996.
b/ In September 1995, SDR 1.7 million were cancelled.



16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
PROJECT            APPRAISAL ESTIMATE           ACTUAL (12/31/96)
COMPONENT
EDUCATION
Classrooms                         420                       326
Desks                             12,899                    19,899
Teacher Training                  2,000                      1,570
ROAD CONSTRUCTION                  410 km                     320 km
HOUSING SITES                       2,500                      2,850
AGRICULTURE INPUTS
Gabions (pieces)                 31,200                    31,200
Fertilizers (tons)               15,000                     15,187
Seeds (tons)                      5,100                     5,600
Sprayers                          5,500                     1,050



17
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
KEY OPERATING INDICATORS
ESTIMATED                                ACTUAL
A. INFRASTRUCTURE & SOCIAL
SERVICES
Roads and VTC, Aden                    -Construction and maintenance of about  About 320 km secondary and feeder roads
410 km of priority secondary and feeder  were constructed, of which more than one
roads;                                 third through rough mountain terrain. The
-Provision of road construction;       roads have been taken over by the General
maintenance equipment; vehicles and    Corporation for Roads and Bridges who
essential parts;                       will maintain them and complete unfinished
-Expansion and furnishing of the MOC   work, including the construction of
VTC in Aden.                           drainage structures. The VTC Aden for
road workers was expanded and furnished.
Education                              -Construction of about 420              A total of 326 classrooms were completed.
additional classrooms;                 The remaining 94 are being built by the
-Provision of equipment, building materials,  Ministry of Education with its own
furniture, textbooks, supplies, maintenance   budgetary resources. Procurement of
services;                              student desks and school equipment
-Vehicles;                             significantly exceeded the appraisal
-Training of additional personnel.     estinate. About 1,570 teachers were
trained.
Housing                                -Development of about 2,500 serviced    The number of serviced housing sites built
plots;                                 under the project (2,850) was higher than
-Provision of survey equipment and     the appraisal estimate (2,500). Survey
vehicles.                              equipment and vehicles were provided.
B. AGRICULTURE                          __l
Agriculture Inputs                     -Provision of fertilizers, seeds, crop  Flood protection materials (gabions),
protection chemicals, veterinary medicines,  fertilizers and seeds were imported in
livestock feed ingredients/additives, and  quantities matching those agreed upon
spare parts for farm machinery.        during negotiations. Other agricultural
inputs (e.g. sprayers) fell substantially short
of their targets while most of the imports of
animal foodstuffs and vetenary products
were canceled.
Agriculture Equipment                  -Provision of equipment for crop spraying,   Provided as described above.
and gabion baskets to conserve soil and
control seaonal river flows.
C. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                  -Provision of equipment, materials, vehicles  Inputs were provided as planned.
I and technical assistance to the PMU.



18
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
No studies were included in the project.
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate                 Actual/Latest Estimate
(USS Million)                       (IJSS Million)
Item                  Local Costs  Foreign Costs   Total    Local Costs   Foreign Costs    otal
Education                 8.5          8.5         17.0        9.2           19.9        29.1
Roads                    16.5          6.3         22.8        20.3           3.1        23.4
Housing Sites             3.1          6.3          9.4        3.3            6.6         9.9
Agric. Inputs             0.4          9.3          9.7        1.3            3.1         4.4
Projoct Administ          0.3          0.3          0.6        0.1           0.3          0.4
Total            28.8          30.7        59.5        34.2          33.0        67.2
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate                     Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$ Million) _                         USS Million) !
Local   1  Foreign                      Local        Foreign
Source          Costs   |   Costs          Total         Costs         Costs        Total
Gov't.            6.5                        6.5          15.6           -           15.6
IDA               -           33.0          33.0           -           32.6          32.6
USAID            15.0           -           15.0          14.9           -           14.9
Germany           4.5           -            4.5           3.7           -            3.7
UNDP               -           0.5           0.5           -             0.4          0.4
Total         26.0         33.5          59.5          34.2         33.0          67.2
1/ Totals may not add-up due to SDR/US dollar exchange rate variation and rounding of numbers.



19
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic rate of return was estimated for this project.
The project yielded significant economic and social benefits for the returnees and
the communities where they relocated. Unit costs of major project components were well
within appraisal estimates, especially if market rates of exchange are used to calculate the
USS equivalent of local expenditures.
Table 10: Status of Credit Covenants
Original    Revised
Covenant  Present  Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Agreement  Section               Status     Date         Date     Description of Covenant  Comments
Credit    2.02(b)                C       09/22/91    01/15/92   Open and maintain a        1/
Special Account for the
_____________ _ _  Project
3.01(b)               C       05/15/91    07/15/92   Establish and maintain     2/
Project Technical
Coordinating
Conmnittee
3.02                CD       03/15/92    12/31/92   Ensure that agricultural   3/
inputs are transferred to
_______      _____    ______     _____     _______                 returning  Yemenis
3.03(a)               CP      03/31/92    09/30/92   Establish Beneficiaries    4/
Selection Committee for
=________  ________     _________     _________    housing  sites
Covenant Type:
Status: C - Complied with; CD - Compliance after Delay, CP - Complied with Partially.
Comments:
1/ In compliance.
2/ The project technical coordinating committee was replaced by the steering coinuttee of the sector ministers, the
Minister, Ministry of Planning and Development, and the Deputy Prime Minister.
3/ In compliance but delayed implementation.
4/ The committee was established in January 1993 but its composition was found to be inadequate. A Cabinet
decree is to reformulated the committee. The decree and selection criteria for the distribution of the plots were
submitted to IDA. The last project supervision mission in November 1996.



20
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Project operations filly complied with IDA's operational guidelines.
Table 12: IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                            Planned                      Revised                      Actual
Project Cycle                 Weeks          USS          Weeks           USS          Weeks          USS
Through Appraisal                                                                       38.1          118.5
Appraisal - Board                                                                       22.2           67.8
Board - Effectiveness                                                                    5.9           18.2
Supervision                                                                             99.6          336.4
Completion                                   22.6                                                      27.2
Total                                                                         165.8         568.1
Table 13: IDA Resources: Missions
____R__ingPfrmance
Number    Days    Specialized                   Develop-
Stage of Project      Month/       of        in     staff skills    Inplean-      rent         Type of
Cycle              Year      Persons    Field    Represented   tation Status    Objectives  Problems
Through Appraisal
Appraisal - Board
Board - Effectiveness
Supervision                 I - 07/92    2        11         AE/E           S             S        MgtfocdTE
2 -10/92     4         ?      AE/O/E/CE         S             S
3- 02/93     3        15       H/CE/AE          S             S
4- 07/93     4        10      EO/IHS/AE         S             S
5- 02/94     3         7       AETE/E           S             S
6-10/94      3        20       AE/TE/E          S             S
7- 34/95     3        12      HSIEC/AE          S             S
8-11195      2        10        AE/E            S             S
Completion                  11/15/96     3                 AE/EITE          S             S        Mg/EcE
Staff Skills Key:
AE = Agricultural Econoniist
E = Education Specialist
CE = Civil Engineer
HS= Housing Specialist
TE = Transport Engineer
EC = Economist
0 = Operations Officer



ANNEX A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
(Credit 2258-YEM)
MISSION'S MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING






REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT (CREDIT 2258-YEM)
Supervision Mission - November 6-December 2, 1996
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
A.    INTRODUCTION
1.    A World Bank mission consisting of Messrs. Jean-Fran,ois Barres, Task Manager;
Rangachar, Consultant; and Samir Habal, Road Engineer, Consultant, visited Yemen from
November 6 to December 2, 1996 (final supervision/review), to review progress and
launch the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the
Emergency Recovery Project (Credit 2258-YEM), with Yemeni counterparts. With the
support of the World Bank's Resident Mission (Mr. Uruj Kirmani), the mission reviewed
progress of implementation of the 1966 work plan and provided advice and support to the
government for preparing its own contribution to the ICR. The mission liaised with the
UNDP and FAO Resident Mission in Yemen. A final wrap-up meeting was held with Dr.
Jaffer Hamed, Deputy Minister of Planning and Development.
2.    The mission wishes to express its thanks and appreciation to H.E. Dr. Jaffer
Hamed, Deputy Minister of Planning and Development; H.E. Mr. Ali Hamed Sharaf,
Minister of Construction, Housing and Urban Planning; H.E. Mr. Farid Mujawar, Deputy
Minister of Agriculture and Water Resources, H.E. Dr. Mazid Ghane, Deputy Minister of
Education; Eng. Kurshumi, Chairman of General Corporation for Roads and Bridges;
Eng. Abul Malik Al-Arashi, Assistant Deputy Minister for Agricultural Affairs, Ministry of
Agriculture and Water Resources; and Mr. Abdul Karim Al-Nashiri, Director General,
Project Management Unit, Managers of Sector Implementation Units and Staff of the
concerned Departments for the excellent cooperation and hospitality extended to the
mission.
B.  SUMMARY OF CURRENT STATUS AND MAJOR ISSUES
General
3.    Closing Date. December 31, 1996 has been established as the closing date for the
Credit. However, IDA will disburse for withdrawal applications received before April 30,
1997, for eligible expenditures made before the closing date (for payment made or
payment due for works, goods and services provided prior to the closing date).



-2 -
Education Component
4.    After the Ministry of Education amended the construction contracts to take into
account the fluctuation in the exchange rate, 34 additional classrooms have been
completed since December 1995, bringing the total of completed classrooms at 242 out of
a total 420 classrooms. Completion of minor finishing works for another 84 classrooms is
expected before the closing date of the project on December 31, 1996. In addition, six
primary schools and one primary and secondary school totaling 94 classrooms are
expected to be completed after the closing date of the project and would have to be
financed by the Government's budget. With the exception of the secondary schools still
under construction, most of all classrooms are fully used and have greatly contributed to
accommodate the children of the returnees. During a field visit to secondary schools for
girls in Taiz, the mission was informed about the initiatives that the schools had taken to
accommodate the influx of returnees' children after the Gulf War: rental of buildings to set
up temporary classrooms, educational material, clothing, etc. In order to compensate for
the delays in the delivery of the equipment procured under the project, the mission would
have no objection in principal, that the expenses incurred by the schools, that are
consistent with the objective of the project and therefore eligible for disbursement, be
reimbursed to the schools, which would have to provide the appropriate justification and
documentation.
5.    Combined seats. A contract for supply of 12888 combined desks was awarded to
Thorco of Canada, for an amount of US$1,018,719.00. The equipment arrived in
Hodeidah Port on June 7, 1996 and was distributed to various Governorates on August
16, 1996. In addition, a contract for supply of 7,000 additional combined desks was
awarded to Athatco of Yemen for an amount of US$329,000.00. The equipment was
delivered to Sana'a warehouse on August 7, 1996. In total, 19,699 combined desks
procured under the project were distributed among the various Governorates for further
distribution to schools according to the schedule detailed in Annex 1. However, during a
field visit to Aden, Taiz and Hodeidah Governorates, the mission was disappointed to find
out that the equipment was either not yet delivered to the schools (Aden and Taiz) or not
yet properly installed and operational (Hodeidah).
6.    Laboratory Equipment.
(a)   A contract for equipment for 119 schools was awarded to Geest Overseas
from U.K. for an amount of US$710,828.50. The equipment is expected
to arrive in Hodeidah in December 1996 and will be reinspected after
arrival in Yemen.  The equipment will be distributed to schools in
Governorates according to the schedule in Annex 2.
(b)   A contract for equipment for 75 primary schools and 50 secondary schools
was awarded to Shiv Dial Sud and Sons of India for an amount of
US$,251,489.00.  The equipment arrived on April 7, 1996 and was



- 3 -
distributed on August 7, 1996 in 15 Governorates according to the
schedule in Annex 3.
(c)   A contract for equipment for 50 secondary schools awarded to Cimmco
International from for an amount of US$357,319.50. The equipment
arrived on June 6, 1996 and was distributed on August 17, 1996 in 15
Governorates according to the schedule in Annex 4.
(d)   Supply of chemicals. A contract for 75 primary schools and 50 secondary
schools awarded to G.P. Industries from for an amount of US$40,808.00.
The shipment arrived in Hodeidah Port on September 4, 1996 and will be
distributed by the end of November 1996 to 125 schools in 18
Governorates according to the schedule in Annex 4.
(e)   Equipment for Biology Class.  Contract for supply of biology class
equipment for 75 primary schools was awarded to Oriental Science
Apparatus Workshop (OSAW) from for an amount of US$30,850.00. The
equipment arrived on June 7, 1996 and distributed to 75 primary schools in
18 Governorates according to the schedule in Annex 5.
VTC Aden
7.    The contract with Public Corporation for Building Construction has been fully
implemented and the last payment certificate was paid on April 6, 1996. The equipment
procured for the VTC and looted during the war has been procured again by the VTC and
is now being used. The mission would have no objection in principal that expenses
incurred by the Center as the result of the war and paid by the Center before the closing
date of the project, be reimbursed form the proceeds of the Credit.
VTC Taiz
8.    This VTC was originally financed under the Technical Training Project (Credit
1645-YEM) which closed on December 31, 1993. However, during the 1995 CPPR, the
Government and IDA agreed that the center could be completed, with assistance from the
Emergency Recovery Project (Credit 2258-YEM), and accordingly US$1.3 million was
paid. The mission visited the Center and was pleased to note that the construction work
was almost complete. However, the mission was informed that MOE has asked the
contractor to undertake additional earth and embankment works that were not included in
the original contract. The funds allocated under the Emergency Recovery Credit have
been fully utilized and the mission indicated that the additional works could not be
financed from the ERC. Since the Taiz Center is expected to be handed over to the
General Authority for Vocational and Technical Training (GAVTT) as indicated by the
Chairman of GAVTT, Mr. Jamal Khowlani, the mission suggest that the additional works
be financed under the on-going IDA supported Vocational Training Project.



-4 -
Teachers Training Program
9.    Since 1993, the program has trained, in 10 Governorates, 1,570 teachers of which
1,347 graduated (967 male and 380 female). In 1996, payment of fees and field expenses
have been delayed by the lack of counterpart funds. The issue has been addressed by the
agreement of the Ministry of Planning and Development to allocate YR1.4 million for the
completion of the program.
Housing Component
10.   The contract with M/S Al Toweity has been fully and satisfactorily completed and
the final payment is being processed. The mission visited the housing site in Hodeidah,
and was informed that the Beneficiary Selection Committee, established by H.E. the Prime
Minister for the purpose of selecting the beneficiaries of the housing sites, has started the
distribution of the housing plots and the recovery of the 10 percent advance payment on
the value of the lots. Therefore, the mission recommends that, in order to comply with
Section 3.03 of the Credit Agreement, IDA be officially informed of the composition of
the committee and on the procedures, criteria of selection and terms of transfer of the
plots as stipulated in Section 3.03 and side letter No. 2 (Annex 6).
Agricultural Sector Component
11.   Financial advance. The mission was informed on the progress of the clearance of
the financial advance from the PMU to the Agriculture Sector Implementation Unit
(ASI"). Out of YR1 1,752,150 advanced, YR9,693,671 have now been cleared and
clearance of the remaining YR2,058,479 is under process an is expected to be completed
before the end of December 1996.
12.   Fertilizers and Seeds. The mission was disappointed to note that there has been
little progress on the issues of reimbursement of the proceeds of sales of agricultural
inputs par the RDAs and the General Corporation for Agricultural Services (GCAS). Out
of a total amount of YR141,200,000, only YR70,916,653 have been justified at the time
of the mission (details in Annex 7). The mission discussed the issue of the costs incurred
by the RDAs and the GCAS for storage, transportation and administration of the sales.
The mission explained that most of those costs should have been included in the sale price
of the inputs to the farmers. However, the mission would have no objection in principle
that exceptional storage costs of fertilizers incurred during the period the fertilizers were
expected to be sold exclusively to the returnees, could be eligible under the project. The
mission received assurances from the Ministry of Agriculture and from management of the
General Corporation for Agriculture Services that accounts would be settled before the
Project Closing Date.  The mission indicated that the implementation plan for the
agriculture component should include a proposal on the utilization of the funds generated
by the proceeds of the sales of inputs. With an official exchange rate close to the market
rate it should be possible to use the fund as a revolving fund to finance further
procurement of inputs and ensure sustainability.



13.   Gabions Baskets. The mission was pleased to note that gabions procured under
the project have been used to address the new emergency situation in flooded areas.
14.   Fertilizers for SRAD. The mission has no objection to the proposal of MOAWR
to award the contract for the procurement of 1,425 tons of different fertilizers to the
lowest responsive evaluated bidder, Al-Hada Trading and Commissioning Corporation of
Yemen, for an amount not to exceed US$398,985, after the General Corporation for
Agriculture Services failed to produce the required guarantee. It is understood that the
sale of fertilizers would be subject to the conditions applicable under the Emergency
Recovery Project (see para. C (h)).
Roads Component
15.   The objective of the component is the construction of 19 roads in 10 Governorates
totaling 384 km of which 131.5 km of secondary and 231.5 of feeder roads. The
component was separately reviewed by Mr. Habal (Consultant) who visited 17 of the 19
construction sites. Out of the 19 roads, 10 have been constructed in the northern
provinces of Saadah, Hajjah, Hodeidah, Taiz and Ibb, and 9 have been constructed in the
southern provinces of Shabwa, Hadramout, Abyan, Beydah and Aden. Since IDA's share
of the road component has been fully disbursed against the procurement of road
construction equipment which had been bought back by the GCRB, road contracts are 100
percent financed by the Government. The total amount of the 19 road contracts is YR
275 million for 384 km of feeder roads. In November 1996, total disbursement for
completed works amounted to YR264,556,140, or 96 percent of total. Almost all the
project roads have been either totally or partially completed throughout the various
regions. Although all roads are thoroughly accessible and heavily used, they will require
continuous maintenance and drainage structures will have to be completed on some of
them to ensure sutainability. The Chairman of GCRB, Eng. Kushrumi, confirmed his
commitment to the project and endorsed the Implementation Action Plan for the
component (Annex 8).
PMU
16.   Equipment. The mission was pleased to note that the computers procured under
the credit are now operational. However, the cars procured for the Agriculture-SIU have
not been delivered to the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources yet.
17.   Training. The project financed 36 staff-weeks of training for 15 staff of PMU and
SIUs in project planning, management, accounting, project supervision, budgeting and
cost accounting.



-6 -
C.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENT REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Education
(a)   SIU Education to complete the construction of schools and classrooms (April 30,
1997);
(b)   SIU Education to supervise the distribution among the schools of the equipment
procured under the project, and to issue a detailed report on the status of the
distribution. For each school, the report will indicate the type and quantity of
equipment delivered and the date of delivery (February 28, 1997);
(c)   SIU  Education and PMU  to prepare a withdrawal application for the
reimbursement of expenses incurred by the secondary schools for girls in Taiz to
accommodate the children of the returnees (April 30, 1997);
Housing Component
(d)   MOCHUP and MPD to inform IDA on the composition of the Beneficiary
Selection Committee for housing sites in Hodeidah and on the methodology of
selection of beneficiaries for the housing sites.  As stipulated in the Credit
Agreement (Annex 1), the methodology will include the following information:
advertisement procedure, eligibility criteria, selection criteria, disclosure of results
and appeal procedure, and modalities of transfer of property (December 31, 1996);
Roads
(e)   GCRB to execute the Implementation Action Plan for the road Component (July
31, 1997);
Agriculture
(f)   MAWR to settle the financial advance from PMU and MOCH[JP (December 31,
1996);
(g)   CAS, RDAs and Seed Centers to settle the sales of inputs on behalf of the project
(January 31, 1997);
(h)   RDA to sell fertilizers procured under the project in accordance with project
procedures (February 28, 1997):
- full justification of sales of inputs already provided by the ERP;
- agreement to sell the fertilizer at a price including all marketing costs (i.e.,
storage and transportation);



- 7 -
- agreement to transfer proceeds of the sales to the ERP's account in the
Central Bank;
(i)    SIU to produce a detailed final report including physical, commercial and financial
accounting for each type of input (February 28, 1997);
PMU
(j)   PMU to issue 1996 Annual Report (December 31, 1996);
(k)   PMU to issue 1995 technical and financial progress reports (January 31, 1997);
(1)    PMU to prepare the draft Borrower's Completion Report based on outline in
Annex 9 (March 30, 1997); and
(m)   PMU to deliver a four wheel drive vehicle to the SIU Agriculture (February 28,
1997).
Washington, D.C.
December 20, 1996
Jean-Francois Barres
Task Manager






-8 -
Annex 1
Republic of Yemen
Emergency Recovery Project (Credit 2258-YEM)
Supervision Mission
November/December 1996
Distribution for 19,888 student combined seats
7,000 desks      12,888 desks
Nb of schools      (US$239,000)   (US$1,018,719
No        Govemorate                             Quantity       Quantity         Total      Unitschoo
I Sana'a Secretarate                   4           500              1408      1908       477
2 Sana'a                               7           800               660      1460        209
3 Hoddeidah                            6           1000             1530      2530        422
4 Taiz                                 8           1000              810      1810        226
5 Al beidah                           11           400              1080      1480        135
6 AL Mahweet                           4            300              450       750        188
7 Ibb                                 10           600               900      1500        150
8 Dhammar                              7            500              630      1130        161
9 Hajjah                              12            500             1320      1820        152
10 Al Jawf                              1            300              120       420        420
11 Mareb                                2            300              270       570        285
12 Saada                                5            800              450      1250        250
13 Hadramout                            9              0              960       960        107
14 Shabwa                               5              0              620       620        124
15 Al Mahra                             1              0              120       120        120
16 Aden                                 4              0              630       630        158
17 Lahj                                 5              0              510       510        102
18 Abian                                4              0              420       420        105
18 Total                              105          7000             12888     19888        189



-9-
Annex 2
Republic of Yemen
Emergency Recovery Project (Credit 2258-YEM)
Supervision Mission
November/December 1996
Laboratory Equipment for 119 schools |
T Tender No 3/92 (US$710,808)
No      Governorate      Nb Schools Supplement  Total
1 Sana'a Secretariat        4           4        8
2Sana'a                     7           0        7
3 Hoddeidah                 6           0        6
4 Taiz                      8           0        8
|  Albeidah                 11          0       11
6 AL Mahweet                4           2        6
7 hbb                      10           0       10
8 Dhammar                   7           0        7
9 Hajah                    12           0       12
10 Al Jawf                   1           2        3
11 Mareb                     2           2        4
12 Saada                     5           0        5
13 Hadramout                 9           0        9
14 Shabwa                    5           0        5
15 Al Mahra                  1           2        3
16 Aden                      4           2        6
17 Lahj                      5           0        5
18 Abian                     4           0        4
Total                   105           14     119



- 10 -
Annex 3
Republic of Yemen
Emergency Recovery Project (Credit 2258-YEM)
Supervision Mission
November/December 1996
Laboratory Equipment for 125 schools
Tender No 1/94 (US$251,489)
Primary
Schools     Secondary
No       Governorate                  Schools
ISana'a Secretariat         8            6
2 Sana'a                     9           6
3 Hoddeidah                  7           5
4 Taiz                      10           6
5Al beidah                   5           4
6 AL Mahweet                 4           2
7 Ibb                        6           4
8 Dhammar                    5           4
9 Hajjah                     5           4
10 Al Jawf                    2           1
11 Mareb                      2           1
12 Saada                      2           1
13 Hadramout                 6            4
14 Shabwa                     2           1
15 Al Mahra                   2           1
______Total                        75           50   _



Annex 4
Republic of Yemen
Emergency Recovery Project (Credit 2258-YEM)
Supervision Mission
November/December 1996
Laboratory Equipment for 50 schools
Tender No 1/95 (US$357,319)
Primary        Secondary
No        Governorate         Schools        Schools
ISana'a Secretariate              0  _        6
2 Sana'a                          0           6
3 Hoddeidah                       0           5
4 Taiz                            0           6
5 Al beidah                       0   _       4
6 AL Mahweet                      0           2
7 Ibb                             0           4
8 Dhammar                         0           4
9 Hajjah                          0           4
10 Al Jawf                         0           1
IP Mareb                           0           1
12 Saada                           0           1
13 Hadramout                       0           4
14 Shabwa                          0           1
15 Al Mahra                        0           1
ITotal                           0         50
Laboratory Chemicals for 125 schools
Tender No 1/95 (US$40,808)
Primary        Secondary
No        Governorate         Schools        Schools
1ISana'a Secretariate             8           6
2 Sana'a                          9           1 6
3 Hoddeidah                       7 _         5
4 Taiz                           10           6
5 Al beidah                       5 _4 
6 AL Mahweet                      4           2
7 Ibb                             6           4
8 Dhammar                         5           4
9 HaDah                           5           4
10 Al Jawf                         2           I
1 1 Mareb                          2 _1
12 Saada                           2           I
13 Hadramout                       6           4
14 Shabwa                          2           I
15 Al Mahra                        2           1
'Total                          75,        50,



- 12 -
Annex 5
Republic of Yemen
Emergency Recovery Project (Credit 2258-YEM)
Supervision Mission
November/December 1996
Equipment for Biology Class for 75 schools
Tender No 1/95 (US$30,850)
Primary
No        Governorate          Schools
1 Sana'a Secretariate              8
2|Sana'a                           9
3 Hoddeidah                        7
4 Taiz                            10
5 Al beidah                        5
6 AL Mahweet                       4
7Ibb                               6
8 Dhammar                          5
9 Hajjah              _       _     5
|  lOAlJawf                         2
11 Mareb                            2
12 Saada                            2
13 Hadramout                        6
14 Shabwa                           2
15 Al Mahra                         2
Total                           75_      _






- 13 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
Letter No. 2
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
June 20, 1991
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Re: Credit No. 2258 YEM
(Emergency Recovery Project)
Selection of Beneficiaries for Housina Sites
Dear Sirs:
We refer to Section 3.03 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement
of even date herewith between the Republic of Yemen (the Borrower) and the
International Development Association (the Association) for the above-
mentioned Project.
We confirm that beneficiaries for plots developed under Part A (3)
of the Project shall be selected pursuant to procedures acceptable to the
Association on the basis of the following criteria:
1. All beneficiaries shall meet each of the following mandatory
criteria:
(a)     returned to the Republic of Yemen after August 2, 1990;
(b)     do not own any other land in the vicinity;
(c)     the monthly income of the beneficiary's family shall not
exceed 5,000 rials per month; and
(d)     have the ability to pay at least 450 rials per month for
the lease of the serviced plots, in addition to sewerage,
water and electricity tariffs.
2. The following factors shall be taken into account in assigning
priority to such beneficiaries:
(a)     number of years spent outside of the Republic of Yemen; and
(b)     number of children under 16 years of age.



- 14 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
Letter No. 2
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing the form
of confirmation below.
Very truly yours,
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By   Is!  Mohsin A. Alaini
Authorized Representative
CONFIRMED:
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   Is!  Ram K. Chopra
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa



- 15 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
Republic of Yemen
Emergency Recovery Project (Credit 2258-YEM)
Supervision Mission
November/December 1996
Aiculture Ceoenepnt (Inputs)                                    _
Mechanized  M.S.Spare   Back        B.S.spare  V-etinary
Institution     Fertilizers    Seeds      Gabions      Sp           parts       sprayers   parts      ddohes    products   Total         Total Paid
Gen, Corp. for
Ag. Services      31,697,000    2,466,200   15,753,120    4,028,100      977,805 2,584,800   648,374  1,704,528E               59,859,927   4,430,206
Tihama Dev.
Authority          16,229,370    1,151,500                                         646,200   159,396   426,132   271,350    18,883,948  14,850,595
Southern
Uplands Rural
and Ag. Dev.
Prqect             18,136,370     667,5001                                                                         346,887    19,150,757  17,623,087
Nerthern Project   8,698,080      671,630                                                  1655,689    10,025.419   5,576,220
Easten Reg. Ag.
DCv. Auth.         4,084,150      335,825                                                                                       4,419,975   1,531,780
Surdud Farm       10,484,950                                                                                                   10,484,950   6,754,406
Seed
Multplication
Center             8,277,500                                                                                                   8,277,500   5,200,300
Potato Seed
CaLter              1.802,50                                                                                                    1,802.500   1,659,400
MOAWR              3.614.400    2,183,825                                                                            -          5,798.225   4,055,077
Veteinary
Prqects                       _                                                                                  2,491,782      2,491,782
0  103,024,320    7,476,500   15,753,120    4,028, 1 00   977,805  3,231,000   807,770  2,130,660 3,765,708   141,194,983  61,681,071
__       _                                                   =Auk96 70,916,653



- 16 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
Emergency Recovery Project (Cr.2258 YEM)
Agriculture Component (Fertilizers)
Institution    Nb of bags  Value
Gen, Corp. for
Ag. Services         92,110      31,697,000
Tihama Dev.
Authority            47,787      16,229,370
Southern Uplands
Rural and Ag.
Dev. Project         52,891      18,136,370
Northern Region                   8,698,080
Eastern Reg. Ag.
Dev. Auth.           11,669       4,084,150
Surdud Farm          30,472      10,486,700
Seed
Multiplication
Center               23,650       8,277,500
Potato Seed
Center                5,150       1,802,500
MOAWR                10,554       3,614,400
Total               274,283     103,026,070



- 17 -
Annex 8
Republic of Yemen
Emergency Recovery Project (Credit 2258-YEM)
Road Component
Implementation Action Plan
Action                                            Priority Implementation Period
1.  Construction of required drainage structure   1            1-3 months
2.  Completion of unfinished length of roads      1            1-6 months
3.  Cleaning and repairs of flood damage          1            1-6 months
4.  Road maintenance                              1           Immediate
5.  Conduct a traffic count on all project roads  2            3-6 months
6.  Prepare a comprehensive plan for road improvement 3
with proper engineering design and financial study        3-6 months
7.  Allocate appropriate funds through MOCHUP
for future works based on engineering
and financial studies                        1            3-6 months
8.  Prepare contractual tender documents and Bills of
Quantities to tender works for new contractors.  4        3-6 months
9.  Appoint a qualified technical supervision team with
adequate facilities to conduct supervision   4            3-6 months
10. Implement upgrading works based on the traffic
and engineering studies                      4            6-12 months
11. Allocate sufficient funds to implement upgrading
works                                        1            3-6 months






- 18 -
Annex 9
Republic of Yemen
Emergency Recovery Project (Credit 2258-YEM)
Supervision Mission
November - December 1996
OUTLINE OF THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
1.    An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) consists of: (a) an introductory
section, (b) main body, and (b) statistical tables.
2.    The introductory section consists of: a cover page; an inside page listing relevant
cufrency equivalents, weights and measures, and abbreviations; a table of contents; and a
preface describing the project and its status. It also includes a two- to three-page
summary of the project implementation experience and results, plans for future operation
and sustainability, and key lessons learned.
3.    The body of the ICR consists of. (a) performance judgments; and (b) analyses of
major factors underlying the judgments. It normally does not exceed eight single-spaced
pages or, for more complex projects, ten pages.
4.    Statistical tables follow the main body of the ICR. (Models for them appear in
Annex B).
5.    The performance judgments and analyses cover the following specific aspects.
(a) Project Objectives
A concise statement and evaluation of the project's major objectives as presented
in the Staff Appraisal Report or President's Report (for adjustment loans), including any
changes made during implementation.  The evaluation assesses the clarity of the
objectives, their realism, and whether they were important for the country/sector and the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. Also evaluated are how demanding the project was
for the borrower/implementing agency, how complex and risky, and how responsive to
changes in borrower circumstances and priorities.
(b) Project Components
Description of the project's components indicating the costs, timetable, and
implementation arrangements (including procurement) for each component.



- 19 -
(i) Agriculture
-Fertilizers
- Seeds
-Veterinary equipment
-Gabions
- Implementation plan: proposal for the use of the revolving funds
(ii) Education
- Construction of schools and classrooms
- Combined desks
- Laboratory equipment
- Educational equipment
- Teachers training
- Implementation plan
(iii) Housing
- Contractor's performance
- Distribution criteria
- Assessment of the impact on the returnee population
- Implementation plan: proposed arrangements for the management of the
housing site in Hodeidah
(iv) Roads
- Status of road construction and costs
- Implementation plan
(v) Institutional Development
(c) Achievement of Project Objectives
An assessment of the project's success (substantial, partial, negligible) in achieving
its major objectives for each component. This section should provide an assessment of the
degree to which the project achieved its major objectives. The objectives and how well
they were achieved should be judged by the standards prevailing at the time of loan
approval, not those at the time of the ICR. However, if the standards have changed
significantly during that period, the ICR should indicate so and explain whether and how
these changes have been taken into account in the course of implementation.
The discussion should provide separate evaluations of the achievement of the
following objectives whenever applicable: (a) macroeconomics policies; (b) sector
policies; (c) financial objectives; (d) institutional development; and (e) physical objectives.
The evaluation should conclude for each objective whether achievement was substantial,
partial, or negligible, or the objective was not applicable. It should also indicate (a)
whether the design of the project was appropriate for achieving the objectives; and (b)



- 20 -
how well the criteria for judging the achievement of objectives were quantified in the SAR
or President's Report (for adjustment loans).
(d) Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
An analysis of the factors that affected project implementation. The factors are
divided into those not generally subject to government control, those subject to
government control, and those subject to the implementing agencies' control.
If cost changes were significant, the ICR should discuss and, if practical, quantify
the major reasons, such as changes in project scope/scale/design, deficient estimates of
physical quantities, deficient estimates of base unit costs, inadequate price contingencies,
changes in exchange rates, implementation delay, and performance of contractors.
If implementation delays were significant, the ICR should quantify them by
comparing the number of years estimated in the SAR/President's Report from loan signing
to physical completion (or final disbursement for adjustment loans) with the actual or
latest estimate, and the applicable disbursement profile. The ICR should discuss the major
reasons for the delays, e.g., unrealistic implementation schedule; incomplete project
preparation; unexpected technical difficulties; changes in project scope; quality of
management; delays in selecting stafflcontractors/consultants, in receiving counterpart
funds, or in receiving funds from the Bank or cofinanciers; inefficient procurement or
disbursement procedures; security problems; natural disasters.
(e) Project Sustainability
An assessment of the probability (likely, unlikely, uncertain) that the project will
maintain the achievements generated in relation to its major objectives, or the
achievements expected in the operational plan. Sustainability is define as the probability
that a project will maintain the achievements generated in relation to its major objectives,
or the achievements expected in the operational plan. In evaluating sustainability as likely,
unlikely, or uncertain, major factors such as the following are taken into account:
borrower commitment; incentives for participants to sustain the project; policy
environment; institutional/management effectiveness; economic, technical, financial, and
environmental viability; social impact and local participation. Sustainability may also be
affected by a follow-on project that continues or expands activities in the project under
review.
(f) Bank Performance
An assessment of the Bank's performance (highly satisfactory, satisfactory,
deficient) in project identification, preparation assistance, appraisal, and supervision.



- 21 -
(g) Borrower Performance
An assessment of the performance of the borrower and implementing agencies
(highly satisfactory, satisfactory, deficient) in preparing, implementing, and, where
relevant, operating the project.  The discussion should explain to what extent the
government/implementing agency complied with major loan covenants/commitments as
they relate, for example, to macroeconomic and sector policies, institutional changes,
effective management and staffing, financial improvements (tariffs, user charges, etc.),
provision of counterpart funds, increased efficiencies and cost reductions, procurement,
progress reports, accounts and audits, use of technical assistance, and undertaking and
implementing studies. This section should also indicate whether, on balance, compliance
was highly satisfactory, satisfactory, or deficient.
(b) Assessment of Outcome
A rating of outcome (highly satisfactory, satisfactory, unsatisfactory, or highly
unsatisfactory) based primarily on how well the project achieved its objectives and how
sustainable it is likely to be.
(i) Future Operation
A description and assessment of the plan for the project's future operation,
including understandings with the borrower on the measures to maximize the project
benefits, the indicators for monitoring and evaluating future operations, and the Bank's
follow-up actions.
(a)   provide a description and evaluation of the plan for the project's future
operation.   The plan should make appropriate technical, financial,
commercial, and institutional arrangements to ensure effective project
operation. Depending on the nature of the project, the plan would include,
for example, the timely provision of all necessary inputs; adequate staffing
(including training) and management; the implementation of financial,
economic, and other policies required for effective operation and
maintenance; and the marketing of the project's output. The section should
also include measures to maximize net project benefits; and
(b)  list the performance indicators by which the project can be monitored and
evaluated in the future and indicate whether a monitoring and evaluation
system is or will be in place;
(j) Key Lessons Learned
A discussion of the most significant positive and negative lessons learned from the
project's implementation, showing how they are reflected in the arrangements for its future



- 22 -
operations. This section also identifies those lessons most relevant to similar ongoing and
future projects in the sector/subsector or the country.






ANNEX B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
(Credit 2258-YEM)
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
(CREDIT 2258 - YE.M)
MabAY 3P1l.E19'-397
Prepared by-: PMXU/ ERPf MO(CHUP)



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Ctirrencv Unit: Yemeni Rial (YR)
(Yemeni Rival per USDOLLAR)
Period                Otficial Rate                Markat Rate
1991                  USD L=YR 12                  USD 1=YR 29
1992                  USD 1=YR 12                  USD I=YR29
1993                  USD 1=YR 1 2                 USD 1=YR29
1994                  USD 1=YR 50                  USD I=YR 103
1995                  USD 1=YR90                   USD I=YR 1I2
1996                 IUSD 1=YR 100                 USD 1=YR 126
Fiscal Year
Government of Republic of Yemien: januarv 1 - Dec.. 31
Meastires & EoLui-alents
1 hectare (hla) = 10.000 ni2 or 2.471 acres.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Title                                                           Pare No
Preface .......................................................................
PERT I
1. Backgroutnd   .                      .( 1 )
2. Project Objectives    ......................................(  2   )
3. Project Components  ......................................( .            )
4. Achievementof Project Objectives ............         .X  4   )
i. Inmpleiicntation record and Major Factors affectinz
the project   .................         .....................   (  7   )
6. Future  operaationis ......................................(  9   )
7. Project Sustainabilitv ......................................(  9   )
8. Lessons learned   ...................................... ( 10  )
9. pROJECT COST & tINA!NCIN\G  ............( 11 )
10. IDA Performiance ..............( 12 )
11. Borrowvers Performance  .....................................   ( 12  )
ANN-NTEXES
1.  Detailed  Disbtursement STatl:s  as aT April 25.1997 for each
catezorv.
2.              Procurement "
Component.



List of Abbrecia-tions
ECA        - Europe & central Asia
MENA       - Middle East & North Africa Region.
ERR        - Economic Rate of Retrni.
HCB       - Housili Credit Bank
IDA        - Iitermational Dev. Association
MCHUP   - Ministry of constructioni. Houjsilnv & Urban pianning
ERP       - Eiereencv Recovery Project.
PMU       - Project Manaeaenent Unit.
RD.SEC.  - Road Sector
HSNG.SEC.- Housing Sector
EDU. SEC. - Educationi sector.
AGRI.SEC. - A-rictulture Sector.
CBY        - Central Bakll- of Ye,en
SDR       - Special Drawings Rights
USD        - United States Dollar
YR         - Yemenii Riv al
ROY       - Republic of Yemen
ICR       - Implementation Completion Report.
MOPD       - Ministry of Planning &vu Development.
RDA       - Reaiona1 Dei . Authorit-
MOF       - Ministry of Finance
ST.COM    - Steerin g Commliittee
SP.AC     - Special Account.
HTB        - High Tender Board
VTC       - Vocational Trainiinz Centter.
GCAS       - General Corp. f(r Agri. Services
GCRB       - General Corp. for Roads &t Bridaes
TTP        - Teacher Training Prograninie.



PREFACE
1. This is the Implementation Completion Report ( ICR ) in respect
of "THE EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT  under IDA
Credit No. 2258 - YEM For an amount of SDR 24.8 Million
(USD 33 Million eqtuivalent )
2. The credit wvas -signed on Jtunie 20.1991 and becamle ef'fective
as from November 5.1991. During the projects implementation
period and based on CPPR meeting held with Govt. in 1995:
agreement was reached betwxeen IDA MOPD PMU and accordin2lv
an amouLnt of SDR 1.7 Million has been cancelled in sept 1995.
Thus. the original credit amiounit has been amended to SDR 23.1 'Mill.
instead of SDR 24.8 million.
3. The ori2inal Credit closing date wvas established as Dec.31, 1995, but
due to the difficiulties and unforseen circumstances ( e.g.the economi-
cal. political crises )in Yemen in May. 1994 etc and after
co- ordination with IDA and as an exceptional case. thie credit
closing date was finallx extended to  Decemnber 31. 19.96 to enisure
proper completion of the project activities. in the 4 sectors
(Roads. Housing. Agriculture &Education).
4. Preparation of this ICR started after IDA'S Final supervision
mission visit to the project in Nov. Dec. 1996 by Mrr. Jean Fram;ois
BARRES (Task Manager ) Mr. Rangachar ( Economist ! and
Mr. Samir Habal ( Road Eng. - Consultanti






PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. BACKGROUND
The economni of ROY has been severelv aifected bv the receiit
Gulf crises. followed by return of an about 750.000 Yemeni
returnees including 320.000 children from Gtlf countries. especially
fromii saudi Arabia and kiuw ait. this inthlx has strained social services
and  aggravating problemis of unemplovemenet in the country - beside
that. the flowu p  of remittances by the Yemenis migration in hard
currency has beenl ceased and this led to serious econioniis dislocatio n
To overcome tllis critical situation. the Govt. nimace enorinas
efforts and accordinglv ahigh coordination and aTechnical ccmmiiittee
was forimed & required documents and plans w;ere prepared which
aimed to provido additional emplovenient opportuinities for the
returnees. incremental social infrastructure in the fields of HOUSIN'G.
HEALTH. AGRI.. FISHERIES. ET ECTRICITY etc ... A general
guidelines of complete Emergency Recoverv Program ( ERP) For
the returnees wvas prepared estimating the total cost of USD 245
Million.
Based an above. the MOPD played a major role bv means of
contacting representatives of International orsanisatiotis which
resulted in response from IDA to contribute towvards the first phnase
of ERP, Which consists of Roads. Housin2. Educationc &t Aericulture
sectors in addition to other orcanisations contribution as followvs:-
-    IDA SDR 24.8 Millioni amended after cancellation ot
SDR 1 .7.Mill. to SDR 23.1 Mill. ( eqLiv. USD 3 )3 Milli.)
-    USAID (to cover local ex-penses onl.)   USD 1  5
-    Govt. of Germanv (              )   USD 4.5
-    UNDP Grant ( strengthening of PMU
- Equip, for VTC)                   USD 0.4
-    Government contribution              USD 6.5
USD 59.4
-   USD 59.4 Million ( YR. 704.6 Mill. Equivalent).



-2 -
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
In general. the objectives of this project are considered to be
verv reasonable and reflects the real asspiration of the RETTURNNEES:
It met immediate induced needs for essential social services. created
eniplovement oppomrnnifies and maintained basic nutritional levels
anid gave them housing facilities etc. for wlhich this project was
assigned as follows :-
a) Create emplox-ement opportunities to the RETURN--EES.
throtuh construction of 384 k;m. oftsecond.ai. -iaid Fcedc?.
Roads.
b) Strengthening essential social services through :xpaii sicn of
em.isting education ( 420 classrooms ) for returnees children
proc: of educational material equip and a T.T.Program.
c) Provision of Fertilizers. Gabioni Basket. Seeds. FeedstalE
Agri. equiip..  Agri, Inputs etc.
d) Provision of 2500 serviced hausin= sites in Hodeidah
Governorate where the majority of the RETURNEES are
located and provision of infrastructure services .
e) Short term training of PMU staff - the staff in the 4 sectors
of ERP in v-arious fields.



-3-
PROJECT COMPONENTS
The project's major components consists of civil wvorlks.
proctirement of equiipment. vehicles, mat. and spare parts in the
following 4 sectors.
a) Roads Sector:  Constructioni and mainitoinabe of 334 km
of roads of which 131.5 km . secondanr roads and 231.5 kt;m.
feeder roads in differeint locations in ROY anid procuremlient or
Roads equiip. mat. vehicles as wNell as e-pansion of VTC-Aden.
b) Education sector:    Constr.iction of 140 additional class room;S
and procuremeent of lab. Equip school furniture etc. as well aLs
implemenitation of Teacher Training programnMe ( TTn )
c) A2ricultural Seckor: - Provision of Gabion baskers to helD in landi
and water conservation and provision of plant protectioin
chemicals inclutding Fertilizers. seeds. Asr.. inptuts. spare paits.
Vet. Products etc. to help maintain crop and live stock productionI.
d) Housing sector:  Provision of 2500 serviced hotisinia sites tor the
RETURNEES. with complete infrastrulctutre senrices. stuch as
water. Drainage. Roads. Electricitv & other essential services
A throLiglh look and review of the project's comiponienlts clearly
show1S that this project was designed to address and overconic the
diffictulties faced by the returnees and their families ....



.4 -
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES.
As this project is regarded to be the FIRST of its kind in the
ROY: at the end of the implementation of phase one of ERP . the
followin2 restilts were produced.
A) Education Sector ( Construction of 4'20 classrooms !
(I) Oult of 420 classrooms       c roonli1 has been satistactorilv
completed in vartious Gov ermorates &, handed over to MIOE. and
niost of c. rooms are fullv tused & accoiimodated the iniflux oi
returnees children. Therefore this component achiev.-d its oiject
inspite of difficulties due to ecoC70nmlic > litical crises in M ay 1 994
w-%hich resLulted in rapid inicrease of buiii-.ntz materials as weill
as intlation of rate of exchange which p,re; Rvented t'he contrac7cxrs !
continue the work.
(ii) Procurement of Educationlol equip inazcr'al
All the proculrement process successfullv completed as per
IDA'S proc. Guidelines and distribu-ted to Their locatiOns
(REFER TO ANNEX ( 2
(iii) VTC- Aden
Construction of one iMIultipurpose store and 3 classrooems
satistactorily completed oni 1 4 96 by th,e public corp. for
Buildina Construction. The equip. Tools proctred & looted
duirinig the civil war lhas been procured avgain an1d now being
used by the students in VTC.
(iv) VTC - Taiz
VTC - Taiz was oripinall fiinanced uLldier techlnical Trainini
project (credit 1645 - YEM ) which closed on1 Dec. 1993 &
durinz 1995 CPPR meetin2. the Go'.t. & IDA agreed that ERP
(Cr. 2258 - YEM) should assist in comilpletioni of this VTC frotm
fiunds available aDd accordinal-v USD  1.3 Million w-as
disbursed. by ERP.



(v) Teacher Training Programnie ( TTP )
The TTP commenced its implementation program in 1993
and has successfully trainied 1570 teachers in 10 Governorates ot
whiclh 1347 graduated ( 967 Male & 380 Female).In 1996
payment of Fees and field expenses hav-e been delayed and
accordinaly the matter was addressed to MOPD ti) allocate YR
1.3 million for comipletion of the remaining program.
Thlerefore:
- Rating of this componenit              (stibstantial
- Design of the project                  ( appropriat
- General Judgement Assessinenlt         (satisfactory
B)   Hoousing Sector:
Construction of 2850 instead of 2500!i ser.-iced housin tl  si es
in Hodeidah in additioni of proi6sion of basic infrastructiLue
services has successfullyv been comiipleted ox the contractor Al-
To-weriv in July 1996 and the beneficiarv selection committee
started thi distribution of Housiing plots
- Rating of this component               ( stubstaintial )
- Desigh of the project                  ( appropriate
- General Judgemenet Assessmienit        ( v. satisfactorv)
c)   Agriculture Component
Procurement of Gabion basket, Fertilizers. Seeds. Feed.
sttiff Vet. products & other Agri. inputs has been comiipleted.
(REFER TO ANNEX 2)
Although little prostress on the issue of reimbursemenit
of sales of Agricultre inpuits hias been made,. but effirts are
made to overcome this situiation and IMAW'R (Aari. scctor
has been addressed to take tiie necessalr LLraeit action ...
Re Gabion bask-et . it has beeni used to address the nei
emergencN sitlation
in Flooded areas. and recentlv in Nov Dec.96 different
fertilizers for SRAD ( 1425 Tons ) has been procured through
AL- Hadda Trading & Commissioninga for USD 398.985.
-  Rating of this Component              ( substantial
-  Design of the project                 ( appropriate
-  General Judsement Assessment          ( satisfactor')



-6 -
D)   Roads Component
From the 19 Roads in various Governiorates totaling .84
km .( 23l .3 Feeder & 131.5 Secondarv roads (  ) km have
been completed wvith minor changes in desicns of some roads.
9 Roads in southern Governorates ( Acen. Abvan. Hadremou.
S habwa & Al- Baida
l0 Roads in Northern    -    ( Sina a Ilbb. Taiz. S a a .
HajJa. H0.deidah
19 Roads ... Total cost YR 275 million.
above constructed roads has been 1 i1 pe.rcent financed bv the
Government after IDA has fully disbursed its share in 1'992 93
against procurement of road construction equip: Veh. 'Materials
which has been bought by the GCRB .
The standard of the constructed roads is considered to
be to the satisfaction of the Govt & IDA
- Rating of this component              ( sLibstantial I
- Desigh of the project                 ( appropriate i
- General Judgement 'Assessment         i satis facton 



-7 -
IMPLEMENTAIION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS
AFFECTING THE PROJECT.
Implemenitationi of the project activities in tlie 4 sectors
(Roads. Housina. A2riculture t Education ,started after the credit
effectiveness on Nov.5. 199 1. Tihe exec utioIl wvorks \went on smoothli-
with slight nmodificationis in Road designs . However thie Eduicatiotn
Sector. which is regarded to be thne most impofvrant sector suffered
delays 8-10 months dfue to the economlic politioal crises in Mav.94
which resulted in inicrease of building materials prices. tiucniation ot
exchalnge rate.Therefore the contractors stopped the iworks comnpletely
demanding comptnsations and, or price differences. Thllis issute Was
finalized in Oct Nov95 after a CPPR meeting held in 1 995 and
amiiended contracts were signed oin Nov 15.1995 with 15 Contractors
stating the compensation amount and the cost of th,e remaininl wos
The USD ex;chanae rate has been indicated in thie aareenmLent t:o avoid
coontractors from  demanding anr difIerence in ftu-alre and accordinliv
work's restarted in Januarn  1996. Upto Dec 3 1.1996 (376) classrcooims
has been stuccessftllv completed
With regard to the remainiins 3 sectors. esrpeciall\ . Housill`1
sector. it has been fullv &t satisfactorily completed ( 2850) housina
sites in stead of 2500 houtsinig sites.
Upto Dec 31. 1996        ) Kin of vhicl i    ) Km . second-
ary and (    ) Km. Feeder toads has been completed in spite of
difictulties faced by- the contractors dae to objectioni raised from time
to time by the citizen in the location of construction. Re2ardinq
procuiremiient of Equip Veh mat. They were successfully executed
as per IDA'S GLuidelines



- 8-
FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
a) Non defination of PMU tasks as kvellas PIU'S tasks as
required .
b) Direct contacts with minister's of the four sectors created
weak co- ordinationi betwveeni PMU and PIUS.
c) Delay in preparation of project docuinlents :nd its
submnission to IDA and HITB.
d) Non compliance of Financial &-Technicai conditions
prepared bv IDA during preparattion o tender dCc.
Which resulted in delav inl receiv-ing, IDA  approval.
e) Delav bv HTB in awvarding the contracts anid witilot ut1vi1 i
reasons for stcli delays and somiie decisioln in ISSUiUme .I
appro,l, by HTB took about 2 years ( e.g.contract tOr
supplyvof schools c seats.. from M S Tliorco (canada)
t) Intlation of exchange rate from time to time restulted in
increase of Buildingo mat. which led the contractors to stonp
the w-orks.
g) Delays in counterpart budget as wvell as the Economical
Political crises duringo the period 1992 - 1994



-9 -
FutuIre Role of the Proiect C CDerations).
The PF:L through its continuous co- ordination iith the
4 sectors of which this project is consisted has successfuly
achieved its objectives and to keep the standard of executed
woiJks in good conditions, it is necessarv to secure the
full support of the Government to provide adequate future
Budget for each sector for regular maintenance of schools,
continue of Training programs, expansion of Roads as per
r equiirements.
Proper utilization of the cost from the sales of Airicultur e
inputs, spare parts & Agricultural equip as w-ell as the cost
recoverv from the sales of housina sites to the beneficiaties.
Pr oiect sustaina bilitv.
Since the pr oject succeeded in achie,ing its objectives
especially bv meeting the incremental needs generated bv
the returnees. In general it is considered to be '(erv sustainable
for the r easons stated belo  :-
(i)   All the classroonms has been handed over to NIOE and
most of thesn fully accomodated bv r eturnees childr-en and
similar T.T. Program shall be ar r anged in future.
(ii)  Roads hae been satis factorily completed iiith labour
force of retur nees and being maintained bv GCRB.
(iii)  Shelters hav e been pro-ided to rhe returnees & their
families in Hodeidah by the pr oject.
(iv)  Agri. Inputs Gabions that has been pr'ocur-ed ar e being
sold to farmers at r easonable prices to str engthen flood
control etc.



- 10 -
Lessons learnt
The ERP is reaarded to be the first E niergencv that has
been implemented in ROY which achieved its objects in all the 4
sectors (Housing, Roads. Agri .& Education ) and thus
provided useful lesson during its iniplementation perio.l as
follows:-
(1)   There should be specific plan of Co ordination betNveen
PMIU and PIU'S especiallv in a multi - sector project like
ERP.
(ii)  To award the PIUS the complete facilities as an
independent Unit, to enable the proper execution of its
tasks rather than attaching the PIU' S under ditect
dealings with the Ministers as it happened in ERP.
(iii)  Provision of adequ:ate counterpart budget with out anv
delay for smooth execution of the projects activities
(iv)  Pre co - ordination wiith water, Drainage seri ices
sector before the comnencement of anv housing comples,
to facilitate its proper execution.
(v)  Good project Preparation and strong support from the
concerned authorities in the Government.
(0i)  Continuous nionitorina to ensure proper' execution of
project.



- 11 -
Proiect cost and Financin2
The original project cost for the 1st phase estimated USD
59.5 million, but during the project execution period & due to the
economic / political crises, this resulted in increase in price of
building mat; currency fluctuations and the demand bv the
contractors for sufficient compensation. Accordingly, the Govt.
after co- ordination with IDA, agreed to Compensate the
contractors and this in creased Govt. Contribution as per details
below :-
Proiect Costs
Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest Estimate
(USS Million)           (USS Million)
Item        Local Costs Foreimn C o;s Total Local Costs Foreign Costs
Education    8.3       8.5       17.0       9.2     19.9  2 9.1
Roads       16.5       6.3       22.8      21.9      1.5  23.4
Housing: Sites 3.1     6.3        9.4       J.3      6.6  9.9
Agric. Inputs 0.4      9.3        9.7       1.3      3.1  4.4
Project Admiinist 0.3  0.3        0.6       0.1      O.3  0.4V
Total    28.8      30.7       59.5      35.8     31.4  67.2
Proiect Financing
Appraisal Estimate        Actual/ Latest Estinm;ate
(USS Million)               (USS Million)
Local  Foreign           Local   Foreign
Costs   Costs   Total   Costs    Costs    Total
Gov't.      6.5               6.5    17.4       -       17.4
IMA          -      33.0     33.0     -        32.8     32.8
USAID      15.0      -       15.0    14.9       -        14.9
Germany    4.5       -        4.5     3.7       -         3.
UNDP         -       0.5       0.5      -      0.4        0.4
Total     26.0    33.5      59.5  36.0        32.2      69.2



- 12-
IDA Performance
It is worth mentioning that IDA through its supervision
mission led bv Mr. J.F.Barres gave its utmosr cooperation and
assistance to the entire satisfaction of the PMU + PIU'S in firalizin2
many issues that required quick decision throughout the project's
executionperiods in addition to the following assistance:-
. Assistance in revising IDA Percentages towards project
categories; modifications of desisns Revision of AHlocation.
. In Preparationi of project docLLulleiit.
. Towards review-ina project status from time to time.
In giving the project the tle,ibility and usef.l practical
adv ises.
. Assistance towards contribution to otlher projects sectors
wvhich were not included in ERP ( e2. VTC-Taiz V'iTC -Aden
SSHARDA  MAWR) . TRAIN-ING OF Engineers
Technicians of MOHUP.
In geneDal the level of tlexibilitv and responsilVeness
ex-ercised bv IDA during the period of project execL1tion. hwad
been very conistructive and instrumental & hiihly appreciaTed.
Borrowvers Performance
The PMI.J created by a mnimsterial Rcsolution in 199)1 entruisted
to supenrise and co- ordinate with the 4 PIUT S in ERP and has
successfullv ftilfillled its obligatioins with assistance of IDA'S
supervision missions. Most of PMU & P1UTS staff have received
foreign short training courses which helped a lot in completing project
objectives successfully .
The PMU vvith co-ordinationi xwith MOPD, MAWKR IDA. had
activelv participated in the project preparation etc. in addition to the
followin:-
a)   The project received strong support fromi Govt.
b)   All the PIU'S has been eficient in hanidling the procurement
process as per IDA Proc. guidelines.
c)   Audit reports were subbmitted to IDA in time .
d)   The PMIU maintained accurate records of project accoiunf.
which were audited by private sectors.



ANNEX C
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
(Credit 2258-YEM)
COMMENTS FROM GOVERNMENT AND UNDP ON ICR
Minutes of Meeting to Discuss the Draft ICR - May 12, 1997
After a brief introduction by the World Bank, the following comments on the draft ICR of May 1,
1997 were provided.
Ministry of Education Representative
1) not all project equipment was distributed to target schools as this would have created an
invidious imbalance in the area. Some equipment went to other schools in the same area.
2) some schools were not completed, although the number completed is greater than stated in the
ICR. The up to date number will be supplied. It is true, as the ICR says, that completion on the
Ministry's own resources was technically agreed; the Ministry, however, intends to make a request
to IDA to reallocate the amount required to complete these half-finished schools (about $20,000)
from another Credit.
Ministry of Agriculture Representative
3) in paragraph 12, there is no explanation of the reason why imports of "other agricultural
inputs" fell short of their targets. In addition, the explanation of the cancellation of the animal
feedstuffs and veterinary products is not well expressed and is not comprehensible. Also, as
$130,000 out of $200,000 allocated to these imports was spent, is the expression "most" correct?
4) the allocation of training for MAWR under the project was inadequate and below target.
5) mention should be made of the absence of local budget for the MAWR component from 1994
onwards.



-2 -
The Representative of the PMU
6) the ICR is generally satisfactory and PMU comments have been put in a report that will be
finalized after consultation with all the PIUs and sent to the Bank before May 27th, 1997 (a draft
was given during the meeting).
The Representative of the UNDP
7) there is no quantification of the beneficiaries, and the report is vague in terms of numbers, so
that it is hard to judge success. A study by the Dutch on the Hodeida Governorate showed that
many returnees are still poor and never benefited.
8) the returnees doubled the number of unemployed in Yemen, and there is no evidence of any
impact of the project on this problem. The number of unemployed is still growing.
9) coordination of the project was originally to have been with the Ministry of Planning, which is
the logical place for it. There is no discussion in the report of the reason for the switch to the
Ministry of Housing.
Participants:
AbdulKarim Al-Nashiri, DG/PMU/ERP
Ezzi Al-Mansoob, MPD
Abdo Hizam, Ministry of Education
Mohammed Amin Al-Maryaki, Director ERP, MAWR
Jamil Al-Sabri, Director, Public Relations, MAWR
T. Burhan, Project Coordinator, ERP
T.S. Ayoob, ERP
Abdo Seif, Programme Officer, UNDP
Christopher Ward, World Bank
Ali Khamis, World Bank



MAP EIflQ
IE,z
I






IBRD 22921 R
45.-                                                   48                                           -5!                  -
fIjr    E0.                              AU-AS OF CONCENTRATION OF RMTRNED EWJDRANTS
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                                                o                           /                    PROJECT ROADS:
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT                                                                                                                                              SFEEDER ROADS
-1                                                                                                                                                                     I18          -       MAIN ROADS
0     SOLECTED TOWNS ANDALAE
/                           0     GOVERNORATE CAPITALS
ch   z  S A  U  D  I  A  RABI B A                                                                             ®     NATIONAL CAPITAL
-JPORTS
e4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~---~-WADIS
GaDVERONRATE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL. BOUNDAkRIES
Al
L~~~ho~~~W  oI~~~~~    Roydoh~Sob
S-r     dk/~-~-                                    w       Nuqub                        AJ A Mqqh.-i Ct.                              Ghqyc
Fhde~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mi,diDor ,,T, O .
RED SEA4              0M         q          ORic          '-        ; °Wc t  N0 soN       0
RED S                                        Rdo                       Wktoo t,w
r o~zf 9 +    t   TAumcir'eoW-e           /                   r                                    GULF  OF  ADEN                                                   ,o0  25  50      100    150
e   <  q t   zg>°\t Sh.q                                                                                                                        KILOMETERS
y Th   old        sta.0           t  the cc   niRA o
i      _   ~  ~   ~  ~   ~   ~  ~  ~  ~ ~ ~~~~~~~h rc r   ste,   and Is o e m pr sre/y fo r tAe  jt eorrdneJ   a. osft71, World  azkind  the   Ingerno.tro n.l
,Wt Jnr    tt. of Th e,tslo  used a k nd tee ndoth^e hounoa&dorles shCo.,, on this n, p do n,o
of 71~ Wo'd Bak an   the  71otm.tior,  Finank Corohaon anytud-e
Ion    / elega/ 'stus of any territorry or any edorsement or acceptance ofsuch houndanes
12 '.-
MA4Y 1991






I



IMAGING
Report No.:        16819
Type:     ICR



