Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2258 YEM
                   (Emergency Recovery Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated June 20, 1991
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2258 YEM
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to obtain from additional bilateral
and multilateral aid and development organizations (hereinafter
"Cofinanciers") loans and grants in an amount equivalent to
US$20,000,000 (hereinafter "Cofinancing") to assist in financing
part of the Project on terms and conditions to be set forth in
agreements (hereinafter "Cofinancing Agreements") to be entered into
between the Borrower and each of the Cofinanciers; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
Page  2
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Emergency Recovery Program" means the program described
in the Annex to Schedule 2 of this Agreement;
      (b)   "MPD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Planning and
Development;
      (c)   "MOC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Construction;
      (d)"MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education;
      (e)   "MAWR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and
Water Resources;
      (f)   "MHUP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Housing and
Urban Planning;
      (g)   "GCRB" means the General Corporation for Roads and
Bridges of the Borrower, a semi-autonomous governmental authority
established and operating under the Borrower's Decree No. 16 of
1972, and any successor thereto;
      (h)   "TCC" means the "Technical Coordinating Committee"
consisting of Deputy Ministers of inter alia the following
Ministries: the MPD, the MOC, the MOE, the MAWR and the MHUP;
      (i)   "PMU" means the "Program Management Unit" established to
monitor progress of the Project and coordinate its components;
      (j)   "Local Councils for Cooperative Development" means the
Local Councils for Cooperative Development, established and
operating under the Borrower's Law No. 12 of 1985;
      (k)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (l)   "HB" means the Housing Bank, a semi-autonomous govern-
mental authority established and operating under the Borrower's Law
No. 86-77 of 1977, and any successor thereto.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty four million eight hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 24,800,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Page  3
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in United States Dollars a special deposit account
in the Central Bank of Yemen on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Sche-
dule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1994, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
October 1, 2001 and ending April 1, 2031. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on April 1, 2011 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
Page  4
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                           ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
technical, administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall maintain: (i) the Technical
Coordinating Committee, with organization, staffing and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association, to coordinate implementa-
tion of the Project and establish priorities for carrying out the
Emergency Recovery Program; and (ii) the PMU, with organization,
staffing and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, to
monitor progress of the Project, coordinating its components,
reviewing bidding documents and procurement under the Project, and
preparing progress reports referred to in Section 9.06 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall ensure that the agricultural
inputs provided under Part B (1) of the Project are transferred to
returning Yemenis under arrangements satisfactory to the
Association, providing, inter alia, for the reimbursement to the
Borrower of at least the equivalent of the cost to the Borrower of
such agricultural inputs.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   for the purpose of selecting beneficiaries of plots
developed under Part A (3) of the Project, establish by a date not
later than six months prior to the expected date of completion of
works at such site of plots, a Beneficiary Selection Committee,
comprised, inter alia, of representatives of MHUP, MPD, and the
respective Local Council for Cooperative Development and administra-
tive council for the governorate concerned;
      (b)   ensure that such Beneficiary Selection Committees shall
select beneficiaries pursuant to procedures and on the basis of
criteria acceptable to the Association; and
      (c)ensure that plots shall be transferred to beneficiaries
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
providing, inter alia, that (i) title to plots purchased for cash
shall not be vested in beneficiaries before five years from the date
beneficiaries shall have taken possession of such plots; and (ii) if
financing is provided by HB or MHUP to such beneficiaries under a
lease-purchase agreement, title to plots shall not be vested in
beneficiaries before completion of the term of such lease-purchase
agreement, and HB or MHUP, respectively, shall charge such benefi-
ciaries the equivalent of at least fifteen percent (15%) of the
monthly income of the beneficiary's family income until the total
cost of installing services and infrastructure for such plot is paid
in full.
Page  5
      Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as avail-
                   able, but in any case not later than six months
                   after the end of each such year, a certified
                   copy of the report of such audit by said audi-
                   tors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                   Association shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other informa-
                   tion concerning said records, accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Association shall from time
                   to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accor-
                   dance with paragraph (a) of this Section, re-
                   cords and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Asso-
                   ciation has received the audit report for the
                   fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                   the Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                   Account was made, all records (contracts, or-
                   ders, invoices, bills, receipts and other docu-
                   ments) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are in-
                   cluded in the annual audit referred to in para-
                   graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                   such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of expen-
                   diture submitted during such fiscal year, to-
                   gether with the procedures and internal controls
                   involved in their preparation, can be relied
                   upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
Page  6
      (a)   The Cofinancing Agreements shall have failed to become
effective by June 30, 1992, or such later date as the Association
may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
      (b)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                   (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any of the loans or grants
                         included in the Cofinancing shall have
                         been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                         whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
                         the Cofinancing Agreement providing there-
                         for, or
                   (B)   any of the loans, included in the Cofin-
                         ancing, shall have become due and payable
                         prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
            (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
                   faction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension,
                   cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
                   caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
                   any of its obligations under such agreement; and
                   (B) adequate funds for the Project are available
                   to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
                   conditions consistent with the obligations of
                   the Borrower under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                            Termination
      Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Development of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Planning and Development
            P.O. Box 175
            Sana'a
            Republic of Yemen
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   CENPLAN                   2266 CENPLAN YE
                   Sana'a
      For the Association:
Page  7
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                         By /s/ Mohsin A. Alaini
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Ram K. Chopra
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works               5,100,000        55%
     under Part A (2)
     of the Project
(2)  Civil works               4,200,000        85%
     under Part A (3)
     of the Project
(3)  Equipment,                7,900,000        100% of foreign
     materials, and                             expenditures or
     vehicles                                   90% of local
                                                expenditures
(4)  Fertilizers,              4,600,000        100% of foreign
     seeds and                                  expenditures
     plant protec-
     tion chemicals
     under Part B (1)
     of the Project
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
Page  8
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5)  Technical assis-            300,000        100% of foreign
     tance and training                         expenditures and
     under Parts A                              95% of local
     and C of the                               expenditures
     Project
(6)  Unallocated               2,700,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                24,800,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 4,000,000 may
be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after March 15, 1991; and (b) expenditures under Cate-
gory (4) above, until the Association has received a list of plant
protection chemicals and guidelines for their use acceptable to the
Association.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The Project is part of the Borrower's Emergency Recovery
Program described in the Annex to this Schedule. The objectives of
the Project are: (i) meeting the incremental need generated by
returning Yemenis for: essential infrastructure, social services,
food, housing and other consumption goods; and (ii) expanding
employment opportunities to reintegrate returning workers into the
economy.
A.    Infrastructure and Social Services
1.    Roads. Construction and maintenance of approximately 410 km of
      priority secondary and feeder roads in areas where the
      returning Yemenis are located, provision of road construction
      and maintenance equipment and vehicles, essential spare parts,
      and expansion and furnishing of the MOC Vocational Training
      Center in Aden.
2.    Education. Construction of approximately 420 additional
      classrooms to be added to existing schools or for new schools;
      and provision of equipment, building materials, furniture,
      textbooks, supplies, maintenance services of educational
      facilities, equipment and vehicles, and training of additional
      education personnel.
3.    Housing. Development of about 2,500 serviced plots on sites
      located in areas where returning Yemenis are concentrated for
      sale to returnee families of limited income, provision of
      survey equipment and vehicles.
B.    Agriculture
1.    Agricultural Inputs. Provision of agricultural inputs required
Page  9
      for maintaining crop and livestock productivity, including
      fertilizers, seeds, crop protection chemicals, veterinary
      medicines, livestock feed ingredients/additives, and spare
      parts for farm machinery.
2.    Agricultural Equipment. Provision of: equipment for crop
      spraying, and gabion baskets to conserve soil and control
      seasonal river flows.
C.Project Management. Provision of equipment, materials,
      vehicles and technical assistance to the PMU in order to
      strengthen management of the Emergency Recovery Program.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1994.
                        ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
                    Emergency Recovery Program
      The objectives of the Program are: (i) meeting the incremental
need generated by returning Yemenis for: essential infrastructure,
social services, food and other consumption goods; and (ii) expand-
ing employment opportunities to reintegrate returning workers into
the economy.
A.    Infrastructure
1.    Rural Water Facilities. Improving the provision of rural water
      resources through construction of approximately 150 rural
      water schemes.
2.    Highways and Roads. Construction and maintenance of
      approximately 600 km of priority secondary and feeder roads in
      areas where the returning Yemenis are located, provision of
      road construction and maintenance equipment and vehicles,
      essential spare parts, and expansion and furnishing of the MOC
      Vocational Training Center in Aden.
3.    Electricity Generation. Provision of essential spare parts and
      supplementary equipment for the existing electricity generat-
      ing plant and distribution system in order to meet increased
      demand of returning Yemenis for electricity.
4.    Housing. Development of about 9,000 serviced plots on sites
      located in areas where returning Yemenis are concentrated and
      construction of approximately 9,000 core units to house
      returnee families of limited income, and provision of survey
      equipment and vehicles.
B.    Social Services
1.    Education. Provision of education to children of returning
      Yemenis through construction of approximately 750 additional
      classrooms to be placed in new three- and six-room schools or
      to be added to existing schools; and provision of equipment,
      building materials, furniture, textbooks, supplies, main-
      tenance services of educational facilities, equipment and
      vehicles and training of additional education personnel.
2.    Health. Provision of medical services to returning Yemenis
      through construction of approximately ten new health centers,
      improvements to facilities at 25 existing health centers,
      provision of hospital equipment and imports of medical
      supplies.
C.    Agriculture
1.    Resource Conservation. Provision of: (i) gabion baskets to
      conserve land resources and control seasonal river flows; (ii)
      tree seedlings and other plant materials to conserve soil
Page  10
      resources; and (iii) technical assistance to local communities
      for conservation of resources.
2.    Agricultural Inputs. Provision of agricultural inputs required
      for increasing crop and livestock productivity, including
      compound fertilizers, seeds, crop protection pesticides,
      veterinary medicines, livestock feed additives, and spare
      parts for farm machinery.
3.    Agricultural Industry. Expansion of the Borrower's capacity
      for processing of agricultural products.
D.    Employment and Project Management
1.    Vocational Training. Provision of three new vocational
      training centers and strengthening existing vocational
      training centers to enhance opportunities for productive
      employment of returning Yemenis.
2.    Project Management. Operation of the PMU and provision of
      equipment, materials, vehicles and technical assistance to the
      PMU in order to strengthen management of the Emergency
      Recovery Program.
                        SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the following modifica-
tions:
      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
      "2.8  Notification and Advertising
            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      a notice to local representatives of countries and territories
      referred to in the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of
      the goods required, and advertising invitations to apply for
      inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequal-
      ification, or to bid; such advertisements should be placed in
      at least one newspaper of general circulation in the Borrowe-
      r's country."
      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for items or groups of items estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $8,000,000, may be awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids sought from at least six qualified suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs
2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).
Page  11
2.    Contracts for civil works under Parts A (2) and A (3) of the
Project may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
3.    Contracts for items or groups of items estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $3,000,000, may be awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.    Contracts for proprietary items and spare parts, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may be awarded after
direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part C:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $ 1,000,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A and C
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  12
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $ 3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
                   quests for deposits into the Special Account at
                   such intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required pursu-
                   ant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which replen-
                   ishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                   request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Sec-
tion 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
Page  13
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to para-
graphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including
the General Conditions.
