RESTRICTED
FILE       (0Py                        Report No. P-374
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON TWO
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDITS
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR THE
EAST AND WEST PAKISTAN HIGHWAY PROJECTS
May 22, 1964



REPORT AND RECONLENDATIONS OF TIE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIECTORS ON TWO PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDITS
TO THE ISUOAIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN FOR THE
EAST AND WEST PAKISTAI! HIGHWVAY PROJECTS.
1.     I submit the following report and recommendations on twqo proposed
development credits to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan in amounts in various
currencies equivalent to $22.5 million and $17 million to assist in the
financing of two highway projects in East and West Pakistan respectively.
PART I - BACNROUND
2.     The Government of Pakistan has requested IDA assistance in the
financing of two major highways in East and West Pakistan.   The question of
IDA assistance for road construction has been under consideration for about
three years. As a result of a general transportation survey and a number of
road feasibility studies, both financed by IJSAID, these two projects have
been determined to have the highest economic justification. The projects
were appraised by an IDA mission in November 1963.   Negotiations took place
in Washington in April and Ilay, 1964, with representatives of the Government
of Pakistan and the Provincial Governments of East and West Pakistan.
3.     The Association has already made ten credits to Pakistan totalling
$h04.5 million.  The two proposed credits, amounting together to $39.5 million,
would increase the total of IDA lending to Pakistan to $144 million as against
the total of $185 million pledged by the Association under the Consortium
arrangements for the second, third and fourth years (1961/62, 1962/63 and
1963/64) of the Second Five-Year Plan.
4.     The Bank has made 19 loans to Pakistan, totalling   331.2 million,
including the recently approved loans of $17 million to the Karachi Port
Trust and $15 million to the Sui Northern C-as Pipelines Ltd. The status
of these loans on April 30, 1964, excluding the two recently approved loans
which are not yet effective, was as follows:
$ millions
Total loans net of cancellations                         299.2
of which repaid                                         47.6
Total outstanding                                        251.6
Amount sold             13.8
of which repaid       8.9                                It.9
Net amount held by Bank                                  246.7



- 2 -
5.     Of the $299.2 million of Bank loans, $176 million had been disbursed
on April 30, 1964, leaving an undisbursed balance of 1123.2 million. The
Indus loan, which accounts for about two-thirds of the undisbursed balance
of effective loans, is somewhat behind schedule owing to delays in the
letting of contracts for the whole Indus Drogram.   There are no serious
delays in other Bank loans. Of tne $10i.5 million of earlier IDA credits, only
$1.7 million had been disbursed on April 30, 1964.   Two credits, totalling
413 million are not yet effective.   Disbursements are not seriously behind
schedule except for the $1 million credit for the Dacca-Denra Irrigation
project, and this project is now making satisfactory progress.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDITS
6.   Purpose:                       To assist in financing the cost of the
construction of a highway between Dacca
and Chittagong in East Pakistan; the
construction of a highway between Karachi
and Hyderabad and the construction of three
bridges across the Jhelum, Ravi and Sutlej
Rivers in West Pakistan; and the appointment
of general consultants to advise and assist
the East and West Pakistan Highway Depart-
ments.
Borrower:                      Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Amount:                        The equivalent in various currencies of:
(a) `;22.5 million for East Pakistan, and
(b) $17.0 million for West Pakistan.
Term and Amortization:        The terms of the credits would be fifty
years with no amortization for ten years.
From October 15, 1974, half of one per cent
of the principal amount would be repayable
semi-annually for ten years; and one and a
half per cent semi-annually thereafter to
April 15, 2014.
Service Charge:                3/4 of one per cent per annum on the
proposed amount of the credits disbursed
and outstanding.
Payment Dates:                April 15 and October 15.
Relending Arrangements and
Pro,ject Agreements:        The Government of Pakistan would relend the
proceeds of the credits to the Provinces of
East and W[est Pakistan on IDA terms. The
Association would enter into Project
Agreements with the Provinces of East and
West Pakistan.



- 3 -
PART III - APP-AISAL OF THE PROPOSED CREDITS
East Pakistan Project
7.     An appraisal of the East Pakistan project is contained in the attached
report (TO-419a) dated Nay 18, 1964 (No. 1).
8.     The problems of road transport differ widely between the two Provinces.
Historically, the main mode of transport in East Pakistan has been the inland
waterways, supplemented by the railways.   There are only some 3,500 miles of
roads in the Province and for the most part they are unconnected stretches
with only occasional bridges. The problems of road construction and
maintenance are particularly difficult. Construction materials, such as
aggregates, are very scarce. Roads are subjected to extremely severe
climatic conditions, when, for four months of the year, the monsoon floods
the country. Given the poor methods of construction in the past, the roads
in the deltaic plain are heavily damaged every year. These difficulties,
together with the many river crossings which have to be made on ferries or
launches, have left the Province with a totally inadequate road system.
9.     The project highway would connect the two major cities of the Province,
Dacca, the capital, and Chittagong, the main port, by a new 150-mile, two-lane,
paved road. There are three major river crossings, one of which would be
bridged as part of the project. The other two would be provided with ferries
which have already been purchased for this purpose by the East Pakistan
C-overnment under a German credit. This highway would be the first in the
Province to be designed and constructed to modern standards and under the
supervision of consultants. The contracts for construction would be let on
the basis of international ccmpetitive bidding.
10.    The total cost of the project is estimated to be 115.5 million.   The
proposed credit of P.22.5 million would cover the estimated foreign exchange
ccnponent and would be disbursed as the work progresses. The remainder of
the funds will be provided from the Government budget.   The project is
expected to be completed by June 30, 1969.
11.    The project would be carried out by the Roads and Highways Department
which has recently been created as a result of a suggestion made by an
earlier IDA mission, It still has few experienced officers to draw on and
for this reason the project includes the appointment of general consultants
to advise and assist the Department in establishing an organization capable
of operating and maintaining a highway system throughout the Province. The
UJAID, who are considering the building of another highway from Dacca to
Aricha, have indicated that the strengthening of the highway organization
would be a condition to any loan they might make.



- h -
12.    Vehicular traffic on most of the existing road sections between Dacca
and Chittagong is at present not very heavy because the roads are barely
useable for the four months during the monsoon season and because of the lack
of means of crossing some of the major rivers wlhich leaves certain sectors
quite unconnected.  With a new all-weather highway and facilities for
crossing the unbridged rivers, a substantial volume of through and local
traffic should develop. Except for bulk freight, which is more appropriately
carried by river craft or railway, the highway will be used to transport high
value imports, locally manufactured goods and foodstuffs to Dacca and
Chittagong and the many intermediate towns.   ,luch of the anticipated increase
in local oassenger traffic is expected to travel by road rather than byr rail.
The highway should also give much needed stimulus to local agriculture and
industry by providing a new and reliable connection with their markets and
sources of raw materials.
West Pakistan Project
13.    An appraisal of the West Pakistan project is contained in the attached
report (TO-4o6b) dated hay 18, 1964 (INo. 2).
14.    West Pakistan has a much larger road system than East Pakistan,
totalling about 21,000 miles, of which approximately one half is paved. But
here again the roads have not been designed or constructed to meet modern
traffic demands. They are often congested with slow-moving non-motorized
vehicles. River crossings also create bottlenecks, with many bridges resting
on pontoons which have to be dismantled during the flood season. Permanent
bridges are too narrow and long delays in crossing are not uncommon. Mioreover,
road maintenance is a continuing patchwork operation.
15.    The project would provide the Province with its first modern highway
which would also be the first part of the proposed National Highway frcn
Karachi to Lahore, Rawalpindi and Peshawar.   This hiRhway would connect
Karac%i and Hyderabad, two of the largest cities of the Province, which are
about 90 miles auart. To prevent non-motorized slow-moving traffic from
entering, it would be a limited access highway, designed and built to
modern standards under the supervision of consultants. The project also
includes the construction of three bridges over the Jhelum, Ravi and Sutlej
Rivers. The Jhelum and Ravi bridges would supplement existing but inadequate
bridges and the Sutlej bridge would replace a pontoon crossing. The contracts
for all construction would be let on the basis of international competitive
bidding.  Tolls would be collected on the new highway.   This is considered
acceptable, since the existing road will continue in operation as an
alternative route.
16.    The total cost of the project is estimated to be $35.5 million.   The
proposed credit of 317 million would cover the estimated foreign exchange
component and would be disbursed as work progresses. The remainder of the
funds would be provided from the Government budget. The project is expected
to be completed by June 30, 1969.



- 5 -
17.    The project would be carried out by the Communications Wing
(Buildings and Roads Branch) of the Communications and Works Department
of the Provincial Government.  The organization of the ComMunications Wing
is outdated and it does not have the necessary expertise to operate a large
highway system. Provision has been made, therefore, for the engagement of
general consultants, who would advise and assist the Communications Wing in
building up an organization and administration capable of operating and
maintaining the highway system throughout the Province.
18.    The new Karachi-Hyderabad highway would reduce the distance between
these cities by about 30 nmiles and cut the travelling time for trucks and
buses from 5 to 3 hours. Karachi is the port of the Province and also the
main and growing industrial center of Pakistan. lyderabad, with an urban
population approaching one million, is also growing ranidly. It lies in
the middle of the important agricultural area of the lower Sind and is also
of growing industrial importance. Wl;ithl a modern highway link between these
major cities commercial and passenger vehicular traffic is expected to
increase rapidly.
Access Studies
19.    The terminal points of both the Dacca-Chittagong and the Karachi-
liyderabad project highways are on the outskirts of these cities and satisfactory
access to them has to be ensured. The projects include, therefore, feasibility
studies to be carried out by consultants of access from the terminal points
to the industrial and commercial areas of the cities. This is particularly
important in the case of Karachi ard Chittagong where much of the traffic
would be generated from the twio ports. The foreign exchange cost of these
studies is srall, $50,0oQ each, and is directly related to the projects.
It is proposed, therefore, that they be included in the proposed credits.
The Economy
20.    A report on "The Economic Development Program of Pakistan"t, wyhich
included a review of the economic situation and Drospects, was circulated to
the Executive Directors on April 28, 1964 (a 6h-hS).
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMFITTS AND AUTHORITY
21.    Attached are two draft Development Credit Agreements between the
Islamic Republic of Pakistan and the Association (Nos. 3 and 4) and two
draft Project Agreements between the Provinces of East and West Pakistan
and the Association (Nos. 5 and 6). The form of both draft Development
Credit Agreements and both draft Project Agreements is substantially the
same and they conform to the pattern of other IDA credits which include
project agreements.
22.    Attention is drawn to Section 2.03 of the draft Credit Agreements,
where the appointment of general consultants is made a condition of withdrawal
from the Credit Account to meet payments on the construction of the highways



-6-
and bridges.  In the East Pakistan project the adoption of highway regulations
has also been made a condition of withdrawal. Both of these conditions are
expected to be met well in advance of the letting of construction contracts.
23.    The recommendations of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are attached
(Nos. 7 and 8).
PART V - COMPLIANCE VqT!-H ARTICLES OF AGREBIEENT
24.    I am satisfied that the borrowjer and the Provinces of East and West
Pakistan will be able to fulfill their respective obligations under the
Agreements and that the proposed Development Credits comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOM IENDATIONS
25.    I recommend that the Association make available two development credits
in amaounts in various currencies equivalent to )22.5 million for the East
Pakistan Highway Project and Q;>17.0 million for the West Pakistan Highway
Project, fcr a term of 50 years with a service charge of 3/4 of one per cent
per annum and on such other terms as are specified in the draft Development
Credit Agreements and the draft Project Agreements, and that the Executive
Directors adopt resolutions to that effect in the forms attached (Nos. 9
and 10).
George D. Woods
President
Attaclments (10)
IWHashington, D.C.
May 22, 1964



