International Development Association   ? 333- ,
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FOR
EXECUTIVE                                           FILEL  0PY        For consideration on
DIRECTORS'                                                            NovembeBr 23, 1982
MEETING
IDA/R82-123
FROM:  Vice President and Secretary                        November 4, 1982
BANGLADESH: Proposed Amendment to the First Highway Project
(Credit 408-BD of June 29, 1973)
Proposed Supplemental Credit
1.     Attached is a memorandum entitled "Bangladesh:  First Highway
Project (Credit 408-BD) - Proposed Supplemental Credit of SDR 5.6 million
(IJS$6.0 Million Equivalent)" dated November 1, 1982, from the President.
2.     The Statutory Committee Recommendation will be distributed separately.
3.     Questions on this document should be referred to Mr. Taylor-Lewis
(:K73895).
I)istribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Senior Vice Presidents
Senior Management Council
Vice Presidents, IFC
Directors and Department Heads, Bank and IFC
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onlv in the perlormance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






ft
FROM:  The President                                      November 1, 1982
BANGLADESH: First Highway Project (Credit 408-BD)
Proposed Supplemental Credit of SDR 5.6 million
(US$6.0 Million Equivalent)
Introduction
1.        On June 29, 1973, the Association approved a US$25.0 million
credit (Credit 408-BD) to the People's Republic of Bangladesh to help
finance a number of investments in the highway subsector under the reac-
tivated and amended First Highway Project, originally Credit 53-PAK for
US$22.5 million, which was approved on June 11, 1964.
2.        The First Highway Project (Credit 408-BD) comprised:
(a)   construction of the 18 mile Feni Bypass Road;
(b)   construction of the Sitalakhya Bridge;
(c)   repair of the war-damaged Surma River Bridge;
(d)   construction of a new headquarters building for the Roads and
Highways Department (RRD);
(e)   provision of spare parts, tools and workshop equipment;
(f)   ferry modifications; and
(g)   consulting services.
3.        The proposed Supplemental Credit of US$6.0 million equivalent
(SDR 5.6 million) is required to carry out pavement repairs and strengthen-
ing of the Feni Bypass, in order that the initial investment may be
protected and the initial project objectives may continue to be realized.
Background
4.        The topography of Bangladesh has led to the development of a
complei transport system in which roads, railways and inland waterways
complement rather than compete with one another.  The railways, which
connect key economic centers such as Dacca, Chittagong, Mymensingh, Khulna
and Ishurdi, were originally developed in the nineteenth century as part of
the Indian Railways system. In contrast, the road system has played a
significant part in the country-s transport only within the past 30 to 35
years. During that time road transport has developed from a negligible to
an important transport mode for both goods and passengers. However, due to
weak foundation soils, a countrywide lack of suitable roadbuilding



-2-
materials, the existence of numerous ferries and a shortage of management
expertise in the Government highways authority, the road system has been
unable to develop in step with the demand. The Dacca-Chittagong road,
linking the principal port of Bangladesh with the capital city, is the most
heavily trafficked road in the country. Recent traffic counts (May 1982)
on the Feni Bypass segment of this road recorded about 1,500 motor
vehicles, mostly trucks and buses, per day.
5.        Improvement of the Dacca-Chittagong road was seen by the Govern-
ment and the Bank in 1963 as being of high priority and, as a result,
Credit 53-PAK for US$22.5 million to the then Government of Pakistan was
approved on June 11, 1964. The Project, as originally conceived, com-
prised: construction of 135 miles of the Dacca-Chittagong road, including
bypasses round congested towns; construction of the Sitalakhya Bridge;
construction of a five-mile link road from Dacca to Narayanganj; and con-
sultancy services. Project execution was subsequently disrupted by the
Indo-Pakistan conflict in 1965 and by the Bangladesh war of independence in
1971. During these years, because of rapidly increasing costs, the scope
of the project was greatly reduced. In 1967 the length of the
Dacca-Chittagong road to be constructed was reduced from 135 miles to
70 miles plus the Narayanganj link, and in 1970 it was further reduced to
30 miles plus the link. After Bangladesh attained independence, the
Government requested a new credit to reactivate the project and, following
further project refinement, the First Highway Project under a US$25.0
million credit (Credit 408-BD) was approved on June 29, 1973.
6.      As a result of delays in the execution of a number of components of
the project, most of which were completed by July, 1980, the original
closing date for the Credit, December 31, 1977, was extended four times and
stands now at December 31, 1982. The last of these extensions was granted
to allow additional time for the Government to achieve a settlement follow-
ing arbitration with the contractor over a payment dispute for the con-
struction of the Sitalakhya Bridge, other project components having been
completed. At present, approximately US$2.0 million remains undisbursed in
the Credit, which is likely to be used for the Sitalakhya Bridge arbitra-
tion award, although a small amount is being used for Feni Bypass repair
work.
7.        The largest component of the First Highway Project was the con-
struction of the Feni Bypass, which comprised 18 miles of 22 feet wide
bitumen surfaced road, with three major, prestressed concrete bridges. The
construction of the Feni Bypass was scheduled to be carried out in two
phases. The first phase comprised the construction of earthworks, culverts
and bridges under three separate contracts running simultaneously, and the
second phase comprised a single contract for construction of the road
pavement over the completed first phase work. The first phase contracts
were awarded to three domestic contractors in September 1973 after lengthy
negotiations. The second phase paving contract was awarded to a fourth



-3-
domestic contractor in January 1978 following normal international competi-
tive bidding procedures. All contracts were supervised by the expatriate
consulting engineers (Amman and Whitney, USA) who had carried out the
design. Construction of the road and associated bridges was complieted in
June 1979 at a total cost, excluding duties and taxes, of about US$15
million equivalent, as compared to the 1973 estimate of US$10.2 million
including contingencies, and the road was opened to traffic on July 1,
1979.
8.         During the course of the following wet season from July to Sep-
tember 1979, the bypass began to show signs of distress, resulting in
isolated areas of cracking and rutting. The Association first became aware
of the pavement distress during a routine supervision mission in October
1979. The mission members agreed with the Government on the need to deter-
mine the cause of the distress, recommended a program of testing to achieve
this objective, and further recommended that the Government should carry
out the testing jointly with the consultant who had been responsible for
construction supervision. Although some tests were carried out by the
Bangladesh Road Research Laboratory and by the supervising consultants, the
volume of testing was inadequate and the results were generally inconsis-
tent and contradictory. Despite repeated requests from the Association
during subsequent supervision missions that the results be reconciLled, the
Government was unable, by the time of the supervision mission of October
1980, to produce satisfactory results or logical reasons for the pavement
failures. The October 1980 supervision mission urged, and the Government
agreed, that expert technical input should be obtained in order to deter-
mine the causes of failure. The Association, being concerned that the
Government was unlikely to be able to obtain appropriate expatriate exper-
tise sufficiently quickly, decided to send a specially staffed supervision
mission for this specific purpose.
9.         In November/December 1980 a supervision mission, compriising one
staff member and one consultant from the U.K. Transport and Road Research
Laboratory, visited Bangladesh and assisted the Government in carrying out
a testing program. The results of this testing program were presented in
January 1981 by the consultant in a report entitled "Premature FaLlure of
the Feni Bypass, Dacca-Chittagong Highway, Bangladesh." The most sig-
nificant of the results are summarized below:
(a)   The damaging effect of high axle loading (equivalent standard
axles) was eight to ten times greater than had been assumed in
the pavement design. Although legislation exists to control
maximum axle load on the highways, it is not being enforced
effectively. Weighing stations exist, but the increasing demand
for road transport coupled with an inadequate road system has
created pressures which have frustrated attempts at con,trol.
Checks and controls are commonly avoided or evaded, and this
inability to enforce vehicle loading regulations has permitted



-4-
unexpectedly large increases in the size and weight of vehicles
using this road.
(b)   The in situ strength of the subgrade was less than the value used
for pavement design. This has occurred partly due to inadequate
compaction at the time of construction, and partly due to the
weakening effect of water which has entered the road pavement
through the cracked surface.
(c)   There were variations in the thickness of the pavement layers
beyond normal limits, so that in some areas the total pavement
thickness was well below the design thickness.
(d)   The road base material lacked the stability intended in the
design because of departures from the specification.
10.       Had the road been built as designed, high axle loading alone
would have required pavement strengthening after three or four years,
instead of the planned 15 to 20 years life. However, because of other
deficiencies, pavement failure started to develop over short distances
along the length of the road, within the first two years, seriously hinder-
ing the passage of traffic. Except in areas of actual pavement failure,
the running surface is still smooth and even, in contrast to adjacent
lengths of the original road which are rough and uneven, although without
conspicuous areas of pavement failure. The Government has appointed a
Committee to investigate the causes of failure and apportion possible
responsibility. It would be premature to attempt to judge responsibility
at this stage, since the failures appear to have been due to several
causes. Incorrect assumptions seem to have been made during the design
process, but at the time design was done, the importance of several fac-
tors, now known to be vital, such as the extremely damaging effect of
overloaded vehicles, was not adequately appreciated. Similarly, there seem
to have been faults in both construction and supervision which individually
might not have been serious, but in combination they were.
11.       There are now two alternative strategies for the treatment of the
Feni Bypass pavement. One is to repair the areas of failure as they occur,
while the other is to strengthen the pavement throughout in order to mini-
mize the necessity for frequent piecemeal repairs. The investigations of
failure areas indicate that the future rate of pavement deterioration, and
hence the need for emergency repairs, will exceed the maintenance capacity
of the Roads and Highways Department. Thus the preferred strategy, and
indeed the only viable one, is to strengthen the pavement throughout.
Meanwhile, an immediate repair program, utilizing sound construction
methods and materials, is in hand to deal with failing areas as soon as
they become apparent. This program is designed to reduce as far as pos-
sible the spread of failures, which could mean that long lengths of the



-5-
road would become virtually impassable to heavy traffic before a complete
strengthening operation can be completed.
The Proposed Supplemental Credit
12.       The proposed IDA Supplemental Credit of US$6.0 million would
enable the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) to protect the investment: of
about US$15 million already made in the Feni Bypass, and possibly extend
the useful life of the pavement to the originally intended 15 to 20 years
without further major strengthening. This forecast must be uncertain,
however, due to the difficulties of predicting future traffic in terms of
vehicle numbers and axle loads with any great precision, and also dlue to
uncertainty over the level of maintenance which the road would receive.
The proposed pavement has been designed to carry the current traffic load
spectrum, with a reasonable allowance for future increase, but should these
assumptions prove to be incorrect, the pavement would be able to take
higher loadings without catastrophic failure, albeit at the cost of higher
surface deformation (paragraph 16). With the present low levels of routine
maintenance, further strengthening of the pavement is likely to be neces-
sary in the early 1990's, but with improved levels of maintenance, this
operation could well be deferred until after the year 2000.
The Remedial Works
13.       The proposed supplemental credit would finance the following
works:
(a)   completion of ongoing repairs to failed areas currently
covering approximately 2 miles of the total length of
18 miles; and extending over possibly a further 1.5
miles by 1983/84; and
(b)l strengthening of the pavement throughout the length of
the road (18 miles).
14.       These works have the following four basic components:
(a)   procurement of construction materials;
(b)   completion of repairs to damaged areas of Feni Bypass
pavement to bring it to the condition originally
intended, followed by construction of an overlay
to strengthen the Feni Bypass;
(c)   provision of consultancy services for supervision of
project works; and



-6-
(d)   procurement of a limited amount of equipment which is not
available in Bangladesh at present, and which is desirable
for carrying out the strengthening works and for the
subsequent maintenance of the Feni Bypass.
Design and Construction of the Strengthening Works
15.       The design of the overlay needed to strengthen the Feni Bypass
and to extend its useful life to a potential 15 years has been carried out
by the Government, assisted by consultants Vallentine, Laurie & Davies
(Australia) on the basis of detailed measurements of strength and perfor-
mance of the existing road and in the light of up-to-date knowledge on
traffic volume and vehicle loadings. The design, which has been evolved
with the specific objective of correcting the defects in the original
project, assumes that the Government is unlikely to be able, in the forsee-
able future, to restrict axle loads to those specified in current legisla-
tion, i.e., 8 tons per single axle. After a careful review of the causes
of failure in the original design, the resources available, and the level
of experience and expertise to be found in the country, it has been decided
that the most appropriate form of construction would be an overlay based on
labor intensive, relatively low technology with which local labor is
already familiar. This technology involves a tack coat on the present road
surface with four inches of penetration macadam, two inches of premixed
bituminous macadam and a surface of a premixed pea gravel sealcoat. Before
the strengthening layer is constructed, any failures or incipient failures
in the existing pavement would have to be corrected, and effective drainage
facilities would have to be ensured over the entire length of the road,
to include provision of an adequate camber on the road surface, which will
involve an increase in the total overlay thickness of 6' along the center-
line of the pavement. The subsoil drains originally laid had become
blocked at their exits by soil, and they have now been cleared and refilled
by materials which are less susceptible to blockage. Repair of failed
areas and drainage improvement was started under the present Credit
(paragraph 6), and would be completed under the proposed Supplemental
Credit.
16.       Modern pavement design standards have been evolved for very
heavily trafficked roads and airfields. These require thick and stiff
pavements which can carry heavy loads without deforming, and which retain a
superior riding quality throughout their lives. But sophisticated con-
struction equipment and a high level of technical skill are required and
the pavements are inevitably expensive. In many developing countries
traditional methods of pavement construction are still being used, result-
ing in pavements that are more flexible and thinner than those constructed
on the basis of modern design standards. They can accept without cracking
the large deformations associated with heavy individual vehicle loads, but
as a consequence, they are usually of poorer riding quality. These con-
struction techniques, which are now proposed for Feni Bypass, are well



-7-
within the capability of local labor using simple equipment and the initial
costs are usually lower than those pavements constructed to modern stand-
ards. Subsequent maintenance would also employ traditional methods, and
mainterLance costs would be affected to some degree by the skill exercised
by the construction teams.
17.       Based on the above considerations the Government's proposal to
adopt traditional methods in the implementation of the proposed works is
acceptable. While the resultant surface would not have the superior riding
quality associated with stiff pavements constructed on the basis of sophis-
ticated techniques--and to which the Feni Bypass had originally been
designed--it would significantly improve the present Feni Bypass pavement
so as to be able to withstand heavy vehicular traffic without cracking.
Thus the risk of failures due to water entering and weakening the pavement
would be minimized. The proposed improvement could also offer the Bank an
opportunity to work closely with GOB in developing the use of local tech-
nologies and skills. This could have important implications for future
assistance to the sector since one of the lessons derived from the early
failure of the original pavement is that, in Bangladesh, it is better to
employ and improve existing road building technologies rather than to
import highly sophisticated road building methods.
18.       On their own initiative, the Roads and Highways Department (RHD)
of the Ministry of Communications, arranged the construction of twro short
lengths of road by contract in January 1981, using the proposed specifica-
tion. This work was well done, and although it has as yet only caLrried
traffic for a short time, the experimental lengths are in good condition
following the monsoon, and the experience has provided information, used in
preparing the project, on possible outputs and prices.
Implementation
19.     The repairs now in progress and financed under the Credit 408-BD
have been undertaken by local contractors employed by RHD, using ithe
results of a survey on the traffic load spectrum and the nature of repairs
required, carried out by consultants (Vallentine, Laurie and Davies,
AustraLia). These consultants were engaged to supervise the consitruction
of the Chandina and Comilla Bypasses, financed under the Second Highway
Project (Credit 964-BD). Implementation of the further repairs and the
strengthening works, both to be carried out by contractors, under the
proposed Supplemental Credit would be the responsibility of RHD, with
day-to-day responsibility entrusted to a special unit created for the
purpose. The design and supervision of the works proposed under the Sup-
plemental Credit are well within the capabilities of RHD, assisted by
consultants. The Association will seek to ensure by means of regular
supervision missions, that implementation is carried out in strict accord-
ance with the agreed specifications and on the basis of accepted sound



-8-
engineering practice. A Plan of Action for implementing the proposed works
has been discussed and agreed with Government. (Annex to draft DCA).
20.       Selection of consultants and prequalification of contractors is
now being done, so that it should be possible to invite bids for pavement
strengthening in order to start strengthening work as early as possible
during the FY83 construction season. Pavement repair work is in hand and
will continue. It is planned to complete all the strengthening works
within two years, which will require an average rate of progress during the
two construction seasons of about 500 feet of roadway per week on each of
four constracts, which is considered to be within the capabilities of the
domestic construction industry.
Consultancy Services
21.     Supervision of the repairs to be financed from the proposed credit
will be done by RHD, and consultants will be appointed to the Bangladesh
Road Research Laboratory (financed under the technical assistance Credit
872-BD), to assist the Laboratory to carry out a regular program of testing
to certify that repairs have been correctly done. Supervision of the
pavement strengthening to be done under the proposed Supplemental Credit
would be by means of consultants engaged by RHD in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion (Section 3.02 of the draft DCA). It has been agreed that domestic
consultants will undertake this work because of their familiarity with the
techniques of construction to be used, which are outside the experience of
most foreign consultants. The total cost of these consultancy services is
estimated at US$139,400, net of contingencies. These estimates are based
on 126 man-months at US$1,100 per man-month. Outline terms of reference
for the consultants have been discussed and agreed.
Provision of Equipment
22.       With the exception of compaction, the construction operations
proposed are normally carried out manually. Nevertheless, the availability
of some simple machinery would improve the uniformity and subsequent per-
formance of the pavement. To this end a quantity of small scale bitumen
mixing and spreading equipment would be provided under the proposed Sup-
plemental Credit. It is anticipated, however, that implementation would
commence prior to the arrival of such equipment in order to prevent further
deterioration of the road pavement. Upon delivery, the concerned equipment
would be leased by GOB to contractors as the need arises at cost based hire
charges. The estimated total cost of the equipment required, excluding
contingencies, but including the cost of spares sufficient for the duration
of the project is US$133,000. After the completion of the proposed works,
the equipment supplied would be suitable for maintenance resealing and for
further repairs to the Feni Bypass and the adjacent road.



-9-
Procurement
23.       It is usual in Bangladesh for Government to supply materials to
contractors for Government contracts, and in this case, procurement of
materials for pavement strengthening (estimated to cost about US$3 million
equivalent, about half of which is for bitumen) would be done by normal
Government procedures which have been reviewed and found to be satisfactory
to the Association. For some materials, such as bitumen, there is only one
supplier, a Government agency, which sells at a fixed price, whereas other
materials, such as stone and sand are supplied under local competitive
bidding procedures. Procurement of equipment would be through interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with the Association's Guidelines.
The award of civil works contracts would be made through local competitive
bidding from domestic contractors prequalified by RHD in accordance with
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Local contractors are familiar
with the type of work proposed, the size and type of which are not likely
to interest international contractors. Submissions have been invited from
a list of seven domestic consultants satisfactory to the Association.
Selection will be made on the basis of these submissions, considering
particularly their experience in supervision of similar works and the
experience of the individual supervisory staff proposed.
Costs
24.       The total cost of the remedial works is estimated at US$8.0
milliorL equivalent, including US$0.4 million equivalent in taxes and
duties, and a foreign exchange component of about US$2.3 million equiv-
alent. The proposed Supplemental Credit would cover the entire foreign
exchange costs plus about US$3.7 million of local costs. It would finance
about 80% of the total costs, net of taxes and duties. The Government of
Bangladesh would finance the remaining local costs of about US$2.0 million.
Details of the estimated cost of the proposed works are as follows:



-10-
Cost Estimate
Local   Foreign        Tax      Total
(US$ Thousands)
Pavement repairs and
overlay including materialsl/        3,840      1,710        150     5,700
Consultancy Services                   129         10        --         139
Equipment & Spares                        5       150        150        305
Sub-total                            3,974      1,870        300     6,144
Physical Contingencies                 397        180         28        605
Price Contingencies                    974        236         58      1,268
TOTAL                                5,345      2,286        386      8,017
1/ Made up of repairs US$1.70 and overlay US$3.85, net of taxes.
The cost estimates for the overlay construction and related materials are
based on mid-1982 prices for materials, and the bid prices for remedial
work in progress during the first half of 1982 on the Feni Bypass. Physi-
cal contingencies of 10% have been allowed for works and consultancy serv-
ices, and 5% for equipment. Price contingencies are allowed at 12% p.a.
for civil works and consultancy services and 10% p.a. for equipment.
Disbursements
25.       Disbursements from the proposed Supplemental Credit would be made
as follows:
(a)   100% of the foreign expenditures, and 100% of the
local expenditures ex-factory for equipment and
spares;
(b)   82% of the total cost of civil works covering
pavement repairs and strengthening, including materials; and
(c)   100% of the cost of consultancy services.



-ll-
Full documentation for all expenditures would be submitted to the Associa-
tion in support of withdrawal applications. It is expected that the Sup-
plemental Credit would be fully disbursed by December 31, 1985.
Economic Justification
26.       The economic evaluation has been carried out on the basis of the
costs of and benefits derived from: (i) the total past and proposed
investment made in the bypass; and (ii) the incremental investment now
proposed. The estimated economic rates of return are 26% for the total
past and proposed investment and about 41% for the incremental investment
now proposed. Increases in construction costs of 10% combined wiLth a 20%
reduction in benefits would reduce the estimated returns to 23% and 27%
respectively.
27.       If no remedial measures are undertaken, areas of failure would
continue to spread during each successive monsoon season.  VehicLe speeds
would decrease to 10-15 kph. and during wet weather the road would be
impassable to heavy vehicles. Thus vehicle operating costs on this
impaired surface would increase three to four times. Moreover, traffic
would be diverted to the old road traversing through the town of Feni where
congestion costs on both local and through traffic would be extremely high,
amounting to 50% over and above the existing vehicle operating costs.
Legal Instruments and Authority
28.       The draft Supplemental Development Credit Agreement between the
People's Republic of Bangladesh and the Association to provide funds addi-
tional to those provided under Development Credit 408-BD and the Recommen-
dation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Approval of the Project Proforma by GOB would be a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Section 5.01 of the draft Credit
Agreement).
29.       I am satisfied that the proposed Supplemental Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
Recommendation
30.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Supplemental Credit.
A.W. iClausen
President
Attachment:  Map No. 10206R2                               by Ernest Stern
Washington, D.C.
November 1, 1982






IBRD 10206R2
9    30'  91~~~~~~~~~00'  .~~~~~>          s~~~~rao ~~~JUNE   1973
UA                             D            NaS0or                         0EBANGLADESH
7(  \DACCA - CHITTAGONG
,ACCA                                            .4,40   HIGHWAY PROJECT
Projet Red
Roads Unde ~R onstadio
Principa Exist,n  ed 
Modon                                                                    Otheroctds               N
Roilwy
Xj WA  tX 9 " I 'Vi ' ktnd- Way
Ports                        31
2 3'30'
---Di,trcf 'BoundDrlesv
|~~~~~~~~ .                        M I> S            i!2 /0   
-ksh '   :   0   0 - - Iritrno' oeLIndorieg /
BA A GA J                                             B9mgn                                     Ramgarl
Begumganj ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ 1
-                S~~~~~~itakund  ,    zarhat
I   -K             Tauudi   3( A\  a,                      ad
~~~    ~ ~ ~ ~ :\y    (                  -~~~~~~~an 
ACCA  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ) ~~~~~~~~
8a of Bsogol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8Y  fBeI 6A
1~~          5    10~~    20          30,



