RESTRICTED E 
Report No.  TO-419a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHWAY PROJECT
EAST PAKISTAN
May 18, 1964
Department of Technical Operations



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Pakistan Rupee = U. S. $0. 21
1 U.S. Dollar    = PRs. 4.76
PRs. 1 million   = U.S. $210, 000



EAST PAKISTAN
HIGHIAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
SUlEARY                                                  i
I.  INTRODUCTION                                             1
II.  BACKGROUND                                               1
A. The Province                                          1
B. Roads and Road Transport                              2
C. Maintenance                                           5
D. Design and Construction                               6
E. Administrative Problems                               7
F. The Five-Year Plans                                   8
G.  The Dacca-Chittagong Road                            9
III.  THE PROJECT                                              9
A.  Description                                          9
B.  Cost Estimates                                      13
C.  Administration and Execution                        15
IV. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION                                   16
A.  General                                             16
B.  The Dacca-Chittagong Road                           17
V.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOITvENDATIONS                        22
Tables
1. Motor Vehicle Statistics
2. Design Standards for Dacca-Chittagong Highway
3. List of Works and Cost Estimate
Maps
East Pakistan - Transportation System
East Pakistan - Dacca-Chittagong Highway



EAST PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
1.        The Government of Pakistan has asked the International Development
Association to finance part of the cost of a highway project in East Pakistan.
The project would consist of (i) the completion of a highway between Dacca and
Chittagong together with an extension to Narayanganj, (ii) the employment of
tnanagement consultants to advise and assist the Roads and Highways Department
(-t & H) of the Provincial Government, and (iii) the employment of consulting
engineers to carry out feasibility studies of access to Dacca and Chittagong.
ii.       The total cost of the project, including US$3.0 million equivalent
for taxes, is estimated at Us,45.5 million equivalent.   The foreign exchange
cost is US,22.5 million equivalent. The cost estimate is conservatively based
and includes a reasonable allowance for contingencies. The Government of East
Pakistan will finance the project's local expenditures from its own budget.
iii.      The consultants to carry out the design and supervision of the Dacca-
Chittagong Highway and the management consultants  will be selected by the
Government subject to the approval of the Association.
iv.       Road construction will, be carried out by contractors selected on the
basis of international competitive bidding.
v.        Despite formidable geographical and human problems, the East Pakistan
economy is growing. The Government intends to increase the future pace of de-
velopment in the Province to achieve a higher rate of industrialization and
self-sufficiency in agriculture. As a result it is expected that there will be
sufficient traffic to justify the construction of the project road.   The de-
velopment of road transport has been held back by a low-standard unconnected
rcad system, by lack of foreign exchange and, until recently, by route operating
controls. The Government intends to permit an increase in the size of the road
transport fleet by 150% over the next five years.
vi.       The organizational structure and operational practices of the Roads
and Highways Branch are both out-of-date and unsuited to modern highway con-
struction and maintenance, A fundamental reorganization and reorientation of
planning, construction and maintenance practices is needed to enable the R & H
to meet its responsibilities for the construction and maintenance of an ex-
panding road system. For this reason, the employment of management consultants
is necessary.
vii.      Feasibility studies for access to the center of Dacca and the port of
Chittagong from the proposed highway are necessary because the streets of these
two cities are narrow and congested.
viii.     The project provides a suitable basis for a development credit by
the Association of US322.5 millior equivalent.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Government of Pakistan has requested a credit from the Inter-
national Development Association (IDA) to meet part of the cost of a high-
way project in East Pakistan. The project consists of (i) the completion
of a highway between Dacca and Chittagong together with a spur to the
river port of Narayanganj, (ii) the employment of management consultants
to advise the Roads and Highways Department (R & H) of the Provincial Go.
vernment and (iii) the employment of consulting engineers to carry out
feasibility studies of access to Dacca and Chittagong.
2.        Roads and road transport in East Pakistan have been studied by
the Bank in the course of the Ecx)nomic Missions to Pakistan in 1961 and
1962. In 1960-61 a comprehensive transportation survey of East Pakistan
was made by Transportation Consultants Inc. (TCI) for the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID), During the visit of the
Bank/IDA mission in 1962, the USAID indicated that it was interested in fi-
nancing roads in East Pakistan. It assisted the Government in obtaining
a series of feasibility studies of the roads comprising the main network.
A number of these reports, which were prepared by three U.S. consulting
firms, became available late in 1963.
3e        In November 1963 an IDA mission visited East Pakistan to ascer-
tain whether a suitable road project was available. The IDA mission worked
closely with a USAID technical mission which was in Pakistan for the same
purpose. After discussions with the USAID resident missions in Karachi
and Dacca, it was agreed that the Association should consider the Dacca-
Chittagong road, and USAID the Dacca-Aricha road. Early this year USAID
informed the Government that it was willing to consider assisting with the
financing of the Dacca-Aricha road.
4.        This report is based on the feasibility study of the Dacca-Chitta-
gong and Nlayaranganj road prepared by Ammann & Whitney International Limited;
the TCI report, and on the information obtained from the R & H and other
Government sources by Bank and IDA missions.
II.  BACKGROUND
A. The Province
5.        East Pakistan covers a land area of 55,000 sq. miles, which is
about the size of England. Almost all of the Province is a low deltaic
plain crossed by some of the world's greatest rivers, their numerous tri-
butaries and distributaries. The annual flooding of these rivers and the
widespread inundation of the surrounding countryside, together with the
silty soil and lack of suitable road building materials over much of the
area, make it both costly and difficult to construct and maintain a road
system.
6.        The Province has a population of roughly 55 million people, 85
percent of whom live in rural areas. The average population density is
about 1,000 per square mile, one of the highest in the world.



- 2 -
7.        The economy of East Pakistan is based on the agricultural pro-
duction of foodstuffs, mainly rice for local consumption and jute for ex-
port. While industrial production is growing it contributes only about
10 percent to the provincial GNP at present. Industrialization is ex-
pected to continue at a increasing pace but agriculture, inevitably, will
remain the mainstay of the economy for a long time to come in order to
feed the population which is growing at 2.6 percent per year and is be-
coming increasingly urbanized,
B. Roads and Road Transport
The Road System
8.        In 1962 East Pakistan's road network of almost 3,500 miles was
made up of 1,500 miles of main roads and 2,000 miles of secondary and
district roads. Much of the main road system consists of unconnected
stretches and isolated bridges, As a result there are only two routes in
the Province having a continuously connected road in excess of 100 miles
in length.
9.        Most of the main roads were constructed during the last 10 years.
They were built to a substandard single or two-lane width with the result
that many would have to be rebuilt to carry any significant volumes of
road traffic. These main roads are generally paved and usable throughout
the year except during abnormal flooding.  Unfortunately, however, because
of overloading, inadequate design and inferior construction, some of the
roads, including their bridges, have been badly damaged.
10.       The secondary and district road system consists of narrow embank-
ments with single-lane earth or brick surfaces which are in an unsatisfac-
tory condition and slender bridge structures of substandards quality.
These roads are unsuitable for modern vehicle traffic and are not of all-
weather class,
The Road Organization
11.       In 1962 following the suggestion of an earlier IDA mission res-
ponsibility for roads was transferred from the Ministry of Works, Power
and Irrigation to the Ministry of Railways, Waterways and Road Transport*.
In the reorganization, the activities of the Roads and Buildings Depart-
ment were separated and a new department created called Roads and Highways
(R & H), Responsibility for the construction and maintenance of the road
system is now centralized in the office of the Chief Engineer of the R & H.
* Under its technical assistance program, the Bank is engaging a trans-
portation economist to be assigned to Dacca on a cost sharing basis to
advise the Ministry on over-all transportation problems.



12.       The above organizational changes were highly desirable for two
reasons. First, the operation of a modern road system requires the full-
time efforts of those responsible for it. Secondly, closer coordination
is needed among the three main means of transport, particularly since in
East Pakistan the difficult topography and lack of funds make it essential
that the various transport media be integrated so that they complement and
do not compete with each other.
13.       The problems of building roads in East Pakistan are immense and
would tax the skills and knowledge of highly experienced engineering or-
ganizations. As noted in the following sections of this report, neither
maintenance nor construction operations in East Pakistan have been carried
out satisfactorily, Both the USAID and IDA are in agreement as to the
need to strengthen the R & H. USAID has indicated that this would be an
essential condition for its participation in the financing of the Dacca-
Aricha Road. Following the reports on the findings of the IDA missions to
Pakistan in 1961 and 1962, the Provincial Government took the initial step
described in paragraph 11 and called for proposals from consultants to
assist in the reorganization and training of the R & H.
Road Transport
14.       As of 1962, there were some 19,000 motor vehicles registered in
East Pakistan (see Table 1). About 75 percent of the total is registered
and operates in Dacca, Chittagong and Sylhet districts which are broadly
within the sphere of influence of the project road. The commercial vehicle
fleet consists partly of ex-wartime cannibalized trucks and buses. The
trucks are generally 3-5 ton carrying capacity. In recent years regis-
trations have been increasing as follows:
Compound
1958        1962        Annual Increase
Automobiles                    4,o60       6,570            13% p.a.
Jeeps                         1,070       2,160             19% p.a.
Buses                         1,330       2,570             18% p.a.
Trucks                        2,740        5,930            21% p.a.
Other 1/                        450        1,980            45% p.a.
Total               9,650      19,210          18.5% p.a,
g Station wagons, delivery vans, ambulances, fuel tankers, etc.
Gasoline sales, which increased at an average rate of 14 percent per year
between 1957-62, confirm these figures, The major oil companies operating
in East Pakistan are understood to estimate an increase in motor fuel sales
of around 17 percent per year up to 1965.



15.       Despite the fact that the number of trucks registered has in-
creased at about 20 percent per year over the past five years, the indus-
try is still in its infancy. There are only 6,000 trucks to satisfy the
needs of 55 million people. In East Pakistan work is done by thousands
of country-boats which elsewhere would be performed by trucks. Very
little of the present trucking operations could be classified as directly
competitive with the railway which is operating at full capacity. Common
carriers are unknown. Trucks are operated by contract carriers or are
owned directly by business firms, plantations or the Government itselfo
16.       Trucking is centered, at present, mainly around the carriage of
bricks, sand, gravel and other materials for the construction industry;
the local pick-up and delivery of goods transhipped from other carriers;
and the short-distance delivery of market produce into the bigger towns
with back-hauls composed of small volumes of cheap consumer articles.
Trucks are also used to move tea and sugar from the fields to mills or
packing stations and from there to railheads or waterway points. There
is some evidence, however, that even under the present unfavorable envi-
ronment for trucking importers in Chittagong and local manufacturing firms
are beginning to place an increasing importance on such factors as time
savings, the immediate availability of transport, less stringent packaging
requirements, door-to-door delivery, etc.
17.       The limited use of trucking is the result of a number of factors
which have been, or are about to be, changed. By 1960 there was only
about l,000 miles of main road in existence, with a further 300 in various
stages of construction. The network is made up of several unconnected
trunk routes, none of which is longer than 210 miles and only two more than
100 miles in length. About 1,000 miles of work is being undertaken in the
current plan period in an effort to connect the existing scattered pieces
into a workable network. This would increase the flexibility of transport
operations and give truckers an opportunity to employ their equipment more
productively, since most trucks seem to operate less than 18,000 miles per
year at average journey distances under 50-60 miles. A second factor
which limited the expansion of trucking was the recently abandoned system
of permits which restricted operations to within one Administrative Dis-
trict. Difficulties in obtaining either import permits or foreign exchange
allocations for the purchase of vehicles and parts has been a third factor.
However, in the next Plan period (1965-70), the Planning Commission anti-
cipates expenditures of about Rs 120 million for the replacement of 3,000
old trucks and buses, some Rs 400 million for the introduction of 12,000
additional commercial vehicles and a further Rs 30 million on ancilliary
workshop and servicing facilities will be allowed in East Pakistan, It can
be expected that many of these replacements and additions will be put into
operation in the Dacca and Chittagong areas since they are already the busi-
est centers of economic activity and places where an unsatisfied demand
for highway transport exists.
18.       The private automobile is unimportant in highway traffic and in
the stimulation of business, commercial or social relations because of the



- 5-
unconnected poor quality highway system. The Government has severely res-
tricted foreign exchange for the purchase of private cars in order to con-
serve the limited amounts available for more productive purposes. Import
duties are punitive and make the purchase price of even the cheapest
vehicle about forty times the average per capita annual income.
19.       Buses, by contrast, are important, even though they number less
than 3,000. There are no regular figures on passengers carried, passen-
ger miles or miles of operation. The TCI Report estimated about 58.5
million passenger journeys were made by bus, of which 26 million took
place within the urban areas of Dacca,Chittagong and Sylhet. Average
annual mileages were only 16,500 per vehicle and average speeds around 15
m.p.h. due to poor equipment, poor roads and unconnected roads and other
traffic impediments. This is a great under utilization of equipment and
keeps operating costs too high. Operations tend to radiate for short
distances from the larger centers without any connections between the cen-
ters themselves. They create very little long-haul competition for the
railway.
C. Maintenance
20.       Because most of the main road system in East Pakistan is still
under construction, rosd maintenance has not become a significant part of
the R & H's work as yet. Maintenance is almost non-existent except in
extreme cases of damage by flood when special maintenance teams are orga-
nized to carry out repairs.  No amount of maintenance, however, can cor-
rect the failures which have resulted from poor design and overloading.
It is to be expected that maintenance of the main road system that is now
under construction will be a costly and difficult operation because of de-
ficiencies in construction.
21.       Little or no maintenance equipment is used with practically all
work being done by hand labor. Average maintenance costs on a per-mile
basis for different types of roads have not yet been developed.
22.       The workshops at Dacca and Chittagong, which also serve other
public works departments, are well equipped with power tools and trained
machinists. Spare parts warehouses are located at these shops, but are
inadequately stocked. District shop facilities are almost nonexistent.
23.       A large quantity of road maintenance and construction equipment
was purchased some years ago, but none of it appears to be in use. Some
units have been cannibalized, some require major overhauls and others
only minor repairs. This situation is a result of (i) an acute shortage
of spare parts and skilled mechanics; (ii) a lack of equipment standard-
ization and (iii) the practice of purchasing equipment with electrical and
hydraulic controls which are too complicated for local mechanics to re-
pair.



- 6
D. Design and Construction
24,       Until recently, the over-all planning and location of highways
proceeded almost independently of that for railways and waterways. The
selection and location of roads was not based on a proper assessment of
economic needs so much as the joining of administrative centers. Road
construction has been viewed, to some extent, as a "make-work" program
and a means of injecting income into some of the poorer areas.
25.       The design standards employed have been rarely based on an ap-
praisal of the importance of the road in the over-all highway system or
upon its anticipated traffic. This lack of attention to the selection of
appropriate design standards has resulted in inconsistencies and inadequa-
cies. 1Main roads are being paved with reinforced concrete to a single-
lane width on a base consisting of two layers of local brick. This type
of pavement is very costly. The cement and coal used for brick making
have to be imported, and sand and aggregate have to be shipped in from
sources often a hundred or more miles away. Consideration is now being
given to widening the pavements of certain roads now under construction
after the scattered stretches have already been completed.
26.       The roadway designs and specifications employed are generally
antiquated and are based on the use of hand labor. With few exceptions,
roads are designed for five-ton axle loading and restricted vehicle lengths
and thus do not hold up under the heavier type vehicles now being import-
ed. Rule of thumb judgements rather than specific soil investigations
are generally the criteria for design. Insufficient attention is paid
to the crucial factor of drainage, As a result embanlknents are sometimes
built too low, ditches too shallow and drainage structures too small.
27.       In some parts of East Pakistan, where a third of the country
is flooded annually to a considerable depth, the design of roads presents
complex problems. If they are to be open all-weather and to survive the
annual floods, they must be constructed on high embanlknents with ample
provision for drainage to allow flood waters to pass. Many bridges and
culverts have been under-designed so that they are damaged by flood waters
which, when obstructed, create furtherflooding upstream and further damage
to the road system.
28.       With few exceptions, roads are built almost entirely with hand
labor. The labor force is hard working and remarkable feats of embankment
and bridge construction have been accomplished with little or no equip-
ment. Apart from brick makers and brick layers, workmen are largely un-
skilled. Labor and local materials are generally provided by contractors
with the Government supplying some of the imported materials and, sometimes,
equipment on a rental basis. The contractors are generally small local
entrepreneurs. A few larger firms with foreign connections are appearing.
29.       Equipment is limited to a few essential units such as rollers,
concrete mixers and trucks. The availability of earth moving equipment



- 7 -
would not change the standard practice of building embankments with road-
side materials as better materials are not usually available within a
reasonable haulage distance. A widespread failure of pavements has oc-
curred because embankments are not compacted, an operation which can only
be properly done by compaction equipment.
30.       Field inspection of work is inadequate or non-existent.   Field
laboratories are not available and little use is made of the research
laboratory in Dacca. Established techniques of scheduling, progress re-
porting and follow-up are generally not in use.
31.       The cost of road construction varies widely, but averages over
Rs 400,000 per mile for a single-lane concrete paved road on a high em-
banknent with frequent culverts and bridging. The inevitable high cost
of road construction in East Pakistan makes it essential that roads should
be properly designed, built and maintained.
E. Administrative Problems
32.       IDA missions to East Pakistan have found that both construction
and maintenance of the road system was severely handicapped by out-moded
or inadequate legislation relating to such matters as (i) the acquisition
of right-of-way for new roads; (ii) encroachment on existing rights-of-
way; and (iii) the regulation of motor vehicles, including size, weights
and speeds. These deficiencies have resulted in delays to road construc-
tion works, unnecessary congestion on heavily trafficked road sections
and accelerated structural failures, particularly of pavements.
33.       Following discussions with the last IDA mission, the Government
proceeded to take prompt remedial action. Late in 1963, the East Bengal
(Emergency) Requisition of Property Act was enacted. The legislation de-
bars the ordinary civil courts from taking action on any suit objecting
to land acquisition, and permits recourse for an injunction to the High
Court only on the grounds that the acquisition is not for a public pur-
pose. This should greatly limit the possibility of obstruction to land
acquisition for roads.
34.       Encroachment is an especially difficult problem in East Pakistan
because during the monsoons roadway embankments are often the only land
above water for miles around. This results in the right-of-way, including
the shoulders and even the pavement, being used for markets, for the pro-
cessing and drying of materials and as storage areas and transfer points
from country-boat to truck. The R & H itself contributes to the problem
as it maintains large stockpiles of brick, coal and gravel on the road
shoulders. The Government has indicated that it would remove all illegal
buildings from the right-of-way and that spur or lay-bys would be cons-
tructed off new highways every few miles as needed for the purpose of
markets, storage, etc. It is also understood that the R & H has been
instructed to use greater care in the future stockpiling of materials along
the roadside,



-8 -
35.       The Government has recognized the need for effective vehicle re-
gulations and enforcements. A special committee set up last year has al-
ready reported to the Communications and Transport Department. Its recom-
mendations together with those of the management consultants will be sent
to the Law Department for the preparation of necessary legislation.
F. The Five-Year Plans
36.       The Government's First Five-Year Plan (1955-60) provided for
the construction of 1,150 miles of new roads in East Pakistan at a cost
of Rs 165 million. At the end of the Plan period the status of the road
program was as follows:
Miles
New roads (completed)                     -663
New roads (to be started)                1,560
2,225
37.       The program consisted mainly of the construction and improvement
of network of five trunk roads. The objective was to link together all
the major ports, cities and administrative centers throughout the Province.
The program was much too ambitious. A major fault was to start work on a
large number of scattered sections in an effort to benefit as many dis-
tricts as possible at the same time. The result was a large number of un-
connected sections in various stages of completion.
38.       The Second Five-Year Plan (1960-65) provided for a road program
as shown below at a total cost of Rs 250 million:
Miles
New roads (already started)                740
New roads                                  130
870
39.       Because of the problems encountered in executing the First Plan,
the mileage of roads in progress was greatly reduced by stopping construc-
tion of the less important roads and concentrating on the completion of
the main roads so as to produce a connected network. Even then, work was
too widely spread, and,because of the long lead time needed to build the
missing stretches, the main network still consists of numerous unconnected
sections. Furthermore, the use of some completed sections has been pre-
vented by flood damage which has caused washouts and damaged pavements and
bridges. The present situation is primarily a product of poor initial
planning and serious deficiencies in execution.
40.       Both the Central and Provincial Governments had become increasing-
ly concerned during the past two years over the unsatisfactory results in
the execution of the road part of the Plan. They had also become aware
that this situation might prevent them from obtaining international funds
to finance road works. In early 1963, therefore, the Provincial Govern-



- 9-
ment engaged three U.S. consulting firms to carry out feasibility studies
of a large mileage of main roads most of which has been under construction
over the past 10 years. These studies were completed by the end of the
year and have been used by USAID and the Association as the basis for the
preparation of road projects.
G. The Dacca-Chittagong Road
41.       One of the highest priority items in the past and present Plan
has been the construction of a road 18 miles long from Demra near Dacca
to Daudkandi where it would connect with an existing road to Chittagong.
-The Demra-Daud'iandi section (see map) is located across low lying ground
subject to heavy flooding by the three large rivers which cut through it.
The section, which is scheduled for completion by mid-1965, is about 85 per-
cent completed, not including the three river crossings on which the Go-
vernment had originally planned to install ferries. Construction began
about five years ago and is being carried out by local contractors under
the direction of the R & H.
42.       At the present time, Dacca-Chittagong traffic by-passes the sec-
tion under construction by using a recently inaugurated ferry service
between Narayanganj (the most important river port serving the Dacca
area) and Daudkandi, The road from Daudkandi to Chittagong consists of
a single-lane pavement of varying width on a narrow embankment. It con-
tains a large number of sharp curves which are quite unnecessary in such
flat country. Bridges are narrow, inadequate and,because of steep approaches,
they obstruct sight distances. The free movement of traffic is greatly
hindered through many towns and villages by encroachments on the right-
of-way and by heavy pedestrian and bicycle rickshaw traffic.
43.       The completion of a highway suitable for high-speed heavily
loaded traffic between Dacca and Chittagong involves (i) the construc-
tion of a new highway between Dacca and Demra, (ii) the completion of the
section between Demra and Daudkandi, including the crossing of major ri-
vers by bridges or ferries and (iii) the reconstruction of the existing
section from Daudkandi to Chittagong. This work was the subject of a
feasibility study carried out by Ammann and Whitney.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Description
44.       The project consists of (i) the completion of a 150-mile high-
way between Dacca and Chittagong together with a 4.8 mile extension to
Narayanganj, (ii) the employment of management consultants for a three-
year period to advise and assist the R & H on matters of highway orga-
nization and operations and (iii) the employment of consulting engineers
to carry out feasibility studies of access to Dacca and Chittagong.



- 10 -
Dacca-Chittagong Highway Including the Narayanganj Extension
45.       The completion of the Dacca-Chittagong Highway involves (i) the
final engineering and construction of 128 miles of highway and (ii) the
completion of the 18-mile Demra-Daudkandi section referred to in paragraph
41. With regard to the latter item, the completion of the work already
under way and the provision of ferry terminals and approaches for ferry
crossings across the two rivers which will not be bridged will not be fi-
nanced by the Association; however, the project does include the design
and construction of one major bridge. The Government of East Pakistan
has agreed to complete the Demra-Daudkandi section and to provide ferries
which have already been purchased under a German credit.
46.       The proposed highway will provide for the first time an all-
weather connection between Dacca, the provincial capital and largest city
of East Pakistan, and Chittagong, the largest port in the Province. An
extension of the highway to the nearby river port and industrial center
of Narayanganj on the outskirts of Dacca will improve access to the port.
47.       The alignment of the proposed highway from Dacca to Chittagong,
as recommended by Ammann & Whitney will require the construction of a new
road section (13 miles) from Dacca to a point on the west bank of the
Sitalakhya River near Demra. This section will supplement the existing
narrow and congested road between Dacca and Demra.
48.       From Demra, the alignment will incorporate the 18-mile Demra-
Daudkandi section (18 miles) referred to above. There are three major
river crossings in this section - the Sitalakhya (1,660 feet), the Meghna
(2,700 feet) and the M4eghna Gumti (6,000 feet). Ammann & Whitney recom-
mended the construction of bridges across all three rivers. The first
river will be bridged; however, because of the high cost of bridging the
two wider rivers, it would be more prudent to use the small-capacity
ferries which the Government recently purchased for that purpose. As
traffic develops, additional ferries will become necessary to supplement
the existing units and the Government has agreed to provide them. This
probably can best be accomplished by the use of locally built inexpensive
barge type ferries. If, later, traffic continues to grow to such volumes
as would clearly justify the construction of one or both of the bridges,
this could be done and the ferries used usefully elsewhere in East Pakistan.
49.       From Daudkandi to Chittagong (115 miles) the proposed alignment
generally follows the existing road with the following exceptions: (i) a
six-mile by-pass around the town of Comilla, (ii) a relocation near the
town of Feni to eliminate a 14-mile loop in the existing road, and (iii)
the elimination of sharp curves, substandard bridges and culverts and
other obstructions to the free flow of traffic at a large number of points.
50.       The Narayanganj extension will branch off from the new Dacca-
Demra section at a point about midway between the two latter towns. The
extension would be located directly through the center of the area which
falls within the jurisdiction of the Dacca Improvement Trust. Reconstruc-



- 11 -
tion of the existing road along the river bank was not considered practi-
cal because of the restricted space and the congestion caused by the load-
ing and unloading of vehicles and river boats and the carrying out of
other commercial activities such as the drying and processing of cloth,
and by heavy pedestrian and bicycle traffic.
51.       The original terms of reference for the feasibility study of
the Dacca-Chittagong road did not make provision for a study of access to
the center of Dacca and connections to the roads from Dacca to the west
and north, nor to the Port of Chittagong. Considerable investigation is
needed to determine the most favorable approaches both from the technical
point of view and that of acquiring the necessary right-of-way.
Design Standards
52.       Ammann & Whitney recommended that the highway be designed to
the standards shown in Table 2. These standards provide for a two-lane
highway, with the exception of a short section outside Dacca, which would
be adequate for the anticipated traffic. The highway would be paved to
provide all-weather service. The type of pavement to be used is not
specified as further study and, possibly, field testing is needed to de-
termine the best design with regard to availability of materials, struc-
tural strength under all climatic conditions, long life and cost.
53.       Because of the heavy traffic which now exists on the outskirts
of Dacca and Narayanganj and the expected increases as these cities grow
and become more industrialized the 3-mile section between Dacca and the
intersection of the Narayanganj extension will be built as a four-lane
highway while the 5-mile extension will be designed as a four-lane highway
with two lanes to be built under the project.
54.       Ammann & Whitney have proposed that the shoulders be built to a
9-foot width and paved with brick to a width of 8 feet in order to accom-
modate the heavy mixed pedestrian, bicycle rickshaw traffic which exists
in the vicinity of all the villages and towns along the route. The pro-
posed by-passes around Comilla and Feni will avoid the worst of this con-
gestion. Consideration will be given to locating the by-passes further
away from these two towns and the inclusion of additional by-passes, es-
pecially at Chittagong to avoid congested areas. On this basis, it would
seem reasonable to consider using narrower shoulders and to leave them
unpaved. A similar question has been raised regarding the width of
bridges including the sidewalks. Further study of the above issues will
be included as part of the contract for the final de9ign of the highway
with the provision that agreement between the Association and the Govern-
ment be reached before tenders are called for.
55.       The Denra-Daudkandi section, construction of which is nearing
completion, is being built to standards somewhat below those proposed
for the remaining road sections. The pavement will be 20 feet wide or
two feet narrower than the new pavement. Furthermore, it was designed



- 12 -
for a lighter axle-load than the 9-ton standard proposed for the new
sections. Shoulders are 6.5 feet wide and most of the bridges have a
roadway width of 22 feet,
56.       The consultants have expressed some concern as to how well the
pavement of the Denra-Daudkandi section will stand up to traffic. The
pavement was built on a high embankment which was not compacted during the
construction although it has undergone a certain amount of consolidation
because of exposure to two or three rainy seasons. Ammann & Whitney have
recommended that when maintenance costs of the pavement become excessive,
the existing pavement be removed and that the embankment and pavement be
reconstructed. As the pavement is nearly completed, the only practical
solution now is to wait and see how it does stand up. The Government of
East Pakistan has agreed to maintain the section, and,if and when it be-
comes necessary,to reconstruct the section, it will be to standards equi-
valent to those agreed for the road between Daudkandi and Chittagong.
57.       To alleviate the encroachment problem as discussed in paragraph
34, provision for lay-by areas every few miles as needed for markets,
storage, unloading and loading, etc. have been included in the project.
58.       As noted in paragraph 35, the Government has indicated that it
will act to prevent encroachment on road right-of-way and has recognized
the need for effective vehicle regulation and enforcement. Assurances
that appropriate action will be taken have been obtained. Also, assu-
rances have been obtained that periodic traffic counts will be made over
a period of ten years.
Consultantst Services and Laboratory Facilities
59.       This item provides for (i) a management consulting firm to ad-
vise and assist the R & H for three years on matters pertaining to its
organization and operation; (ii) a consulting engineering firm to carry
out feasibility studies of access to Dacca and Chittagong as discussed in
paragraph 51;(iii) the provision of weigh bridges to be installed on the
Dacca-Chittagong road; and (iv) the acquisition of equipment and services
for strengthening the central road laboratory. The services to be ren-
dered by management consultants includes:
i) A study of the organization and administration of R & H
and assistance in implementing the recommendations of
that study.
ii) A report on highway maintenance requirements with re-
commendations on necessary changes and improvements.
iii) A report on the condition of the central road laboratory
at Dacca including recommendations as to the proposed
research aection and the desirability of awarding re-
search contracts abroad.



- 13 -
60.       Under the first item the consultants will be expected (a) to
appraise the adequacy of the R & H organization and to recommend the
changes necessary for the purpose of modernizing, streamlining and sim-
plifying its present organizational structure so as to enable it to carry
out its expanding responsibilities with increased efficiency and better
control over its operations; (b) to assist in the establishment and opera-
tion of a planning section and a modern design office; and (c) to assist
in the selection of contractors and to introduce modern field inspection
techniques on road construction. The consultants will be required to sub-
mit a comprehensive report on their findings and following the approval
of the report to assist in the implementation of its recommendations.
61.       The second item calls for a thorough study of maintenance require-
ments for the growing road system. Particular emphasis will be placed on
determining to what extent maintenance operations should be mechanized on
both new and existing roads with due consideration to economy and efficien-
cy, good workmanship and availability and skill of local labor.
62.       The third item concerns the appraisal of existing laboratory fa-
cilities at Dacca and the establishment of a road research section. The
consultants will be expected to examine and comment on the proposed re-
search section and the desirability of awarding research contracts abroad.
It will also provide for the training of local staff to operate the exist-
ing and any new facilities proposed.
63.       The implementation of any recommendations made by the consult-
ants involving large-scale expenditure, particularly on maintenance, will
have to be left to a later stage, as it is not possible now to anticipate
the order of magnitude of the expenditure these recommendations might
involve. Thus no provision has been made in the project for such expen-
ditures.
B. Cost Estimate
64.       The total cost of the project is US$45.5 million equivalent as
shown below: (A detailed estimate is given in Table 3)
US$ Million Equivalent
Local      Foreign     Equivalent
Road construction                        18.90       18.30       37.20
Consultants' services and laboratory
facilities                            0.90        1.40         2.30
Contingencies                             3.20       2.80         6.00
23.00       22.50        45.50



- 1h -
65.       The estimate for the road construction part includes the costs
of construction, consultants' services, right-of-way and local duties and
taxes. It also includes a bridge across the Sitalakha River. The cost of
the ferries and the ferry terminals which were ordered under suppliers'
credits are not included in the estimate nor is the cost of any additional
ferries which may be necessary at a later date (see paragraph 48).
66.       This estimate, which was prepared by Ammann & Whitney, is based
on a calculation of quantities which because of the uniform cross section
of the roadway embankment resulting from the flat terrain throughout the
length of the highway should be almost exact. The accuracy of the unit
prices, however, is less certain as this would be the first highway in
East Pakistan built to modern specifications. They were checked, however,
against those estimated by other consultants in similar studies in East
Pakistan and were found to be of the same order of magnitude, or slightly
higher. Also, substantial savings over the estimate may be obtained
following further study during the design phase by a reduction in the
design standards as noted in paragraph 54.
67.       Because of advanced stage of completion of the Denra-Daudkandi
section, the estimate does not include any part of the cost of the work
presently under way. As noted in paragraph 56, there is some doubt as
to how well the pavement of this section will stand up to traffic. The
Government has agreed to repair or replace the pavement as needed. If
the savings noted in the preceding paragraph should materialize, consi-
deration could be given to applying them to this or other work.
68.       The estimate for the management consultants is based on an esti-
mate of the man-months required by De Leuw, Cather and Company, with whom
the Government is now negotiating. On the basis of the above, a contin-
gency allocation of 15 percent for the over-all project is considered
reasonable in view of the conservative nature of the estimates.
69.      =The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$22.5 million
equivalent, or approximately 55 percent of the total estimated cost of the
project, less the cost of Government duties and taxes and right-of-way.
The estimated foreign exchange requirements are based on the need to im-
port all equipment and a large proportion of supplies, the use of foreign
contractors on the road construction part and the employment of consultants
from overseas. Local costs are based on the use of local unskilled and
semi-skilled labor, some local services and supplies, and some Pakistani
personnel on the consultantsf staff.
70.       Local currency needs will be provided from the budget of the
East Pakistan Government. Assurances have been obtained from the Central
and Provincial Governments that sufficient funds will be provided to carry
out the project and that these funds will be made available as required.



C. Administration and Execution
Dacca-Chittagong Highway Including the Narayanganj Extension
71.       Construction of the highway will be carried out through unit-
price contracts awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding.
Because of the size of the project, two or possibly three consultants,
one of which could be the same firm which carried out the feasibility
studies, will be engaged to prepare final plans, specifications and con-
tract documents. This part of the work will require about one year to
complete following agreement on the design standards. These consultants
will also be used to assist in the analysis of bids and to supervise
construction in an executive capacity.
72.       Construction will be let in large contracts.  Their sizes will
depend upon the timing of completion of tender documents and further ana-
lysis by the consultants of the construction schedule.  Anmmann & Whitney
estimate that actual construction will require about four years. Allow-
ing for mobilization of both consultants and contractors, and for adver-
tising bids and the awarding of contracts, they estimate that design and
construction will take about five years to execute.
73.       An unusually long construction period is required because little
or no work can be done during the four months monsoon season which extends
from June to September, and because of the consultantst assumptions, on
which the cost estimate is based, that the embankment supporting the road-
way would be built by hand labor with equipment being used only for compaction
and other special purposes. Work output will also be reduced by high tem-
peratures and humidity and by the religious holiday during the month of
Ramadan.
74.       The extent to which equipment is used on construction is usually
left up to the contractor to decide. In East Pakistan the Government will
probably favor using labor to the maximum extent possible because of the
large surplus available. From the contractor's point of view, equipment
would probably result in speeding up the work although it would be idle
for long periods of time during the monsoons. The consultants will be
asked to consider this point before tenders are called for.
Management Consultants and Other Services
75.       The R & H is faced with many difficult problems relating to or-
ganization, administration, road maintenance and construction. The
weaknesses of the present highway system become increasingly apparent as
traffic demands grow. It is necessary, therefore, to start the complex
task of building up a competent, well organized modern highway department
including, in particular, an efficient maintenance organization.  The
Government is aware of this need and is determined that the problems must
be overcome now that the first modern highway is about to be built in the
Province and there is the possibility of USAID financing a second major
highway construction project.



- 16 -
76.       The Government agrees that this task of reorganizing and strength-
ening the R & H can be best carried out by a specialized team of manage-
ment and technical consultants. After discussions between IDA and the
R & H about the Terms of Reference for such consultants, the Government of
East Pakistan invited a number of firms to submit proposals.   Five propos-
.als have been received to-date, and as noted in paragraph 68 above, nego-
tiations are taking place with the U.S. finm of De Leuw, Cather and Company.
77.       The consultants will provide their services for a three-year
period. They will prepare reports on the organizational, accounting and
technical procedures and problems within the first year, after which they
will assist the R & H in implementing the recommendations. The team pro-
vided will consist of 8-9 specialists in all phases of highway department
operations - administration, accounting, design, materials, maintenance,
construction and planning. The number of specialists, at the period of
their employment, has been based in IDA's experience of similar cases.
They are regarded as the minimum necessary to carry out the assignment as
soon as possible in order that the R & H may satisfactorily carry out its
growing responsibilities.
78.       The selection of equipment required for the central road research
laboratory will be based on the recommendations of the management consult-
ants, who will also be responsible for its proper installation and for the
training of local personnel in its use. The weight bridges will be installed
at appropriate points to be selected along the project road. The feasibi-
lity studies of access into Dacca and to Chittagong port from the terminal
points of the project road will be carried out by technical consultants who
have still to be selected. The management consultants will assist the
R & H selecting the technical consultants.
IV. ECONtOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. General
79.       The Government believes that priority must be given to the im-
provement of both the highway and railway routes between Dacca and Chitta-
gong. The standards should be such as to permit all-weather and fast trans-
port for city-to-city and intermediate traffic, with a sufficient safety
margin to give operational flexibility and an emergency reserve in each so
that should the services of one be interrupted the population could still
be supplied with food, The purpose of the projects would be to relieve
the existing congestion at the port; to make possible the daily supply of
foodstuffs to such growing towns as Dacca, Narayanganj, Comilla, Feni and
Chittagong; and, by the lowering of transport costs and by service improve-
ments, the generation of economies that would stimulate agricultural and
manufacturing development.
80.       In summary, the Government believes that as population, urbani-
zation, agriculture, industry and service trades grow in the Dacca-
Chittagong service areas, and as the character of traffic changes, there



- 17 -
is a need to improve both rail and road transport facilities within the
Dacca-Chittagong complex. Possible competition resulting from excess
capacity is not envisaged as being an important issue since there will
be sufficient suitable traffic for both rail and road transport to justify
the improvements. This belief is reinforced by the time periods involved -
about 5 years - to construct the highway and to carry out the proposed
double-tracking of parts of the 196 miles of railway between Dacca and
Chittagong.
81.       Because the proposed road and rail improvements would closely
parallel each other between Chittagong and Comilla, and because water
transport could be a potential alternative at least for terminal to ter-
minal traffic, an intensive study has been made by the Bank staff. The
broad conclusions reached are (a) that transport by river craft poses
several problems that are not capable of short-run solutions and that for
much of the traffic expected to move,it is not the most suitable medium,
(b) the highway construction is justified, and (c) that the proposed
double-tracking of the railway should be carried out in stages beginning
first with the 43-mile section out of Chittagong and the 14 miles out of
Dacca.
B. The Dacca-Chittagong Road
(i) The Road
82.       There is at present a sub-standard, narrow and highly dangerous
142 miles road between Chittagong and Daudkandi via Feni and Comilla (see
Map). Between Daudkandi and Narayanganj (Dacca) until a few months ago,
there was no reliable ferry connection.  The IWT has now put some small
capacity ferries into operation on the 22-mile water route between the two
latter points which are capable of transporting 80-90 motor vehicles per
day.
83.        At present it takes a truck around 6 hours to travel the first
142-mile section. The ferry journey, inclusive of loading and unloading,
but assuming no queue of waiting vehicles, takes a further two hours.
From the river port of Narayanganj to the central business district of
Dacca may take anouther half-hour. In other words, taking into account
the loading and unloading of goods, only one journey per day is possible
at an average journey speed of around 20 m.p.h. Surveys made by the con-
sultants show that on the first section of the road between Chittagong and
Feni trucks and buses average only 15 m.p.h. because of the narrowness of
the road, the large number of hump-backed bridges which reduce the sight
distance, the numerous small crowded villages through which the road passes
and the general impediments to a free flow of traffic caused by pedestrians,
bicycle-rickshaws, autorickshaws and animals on the 1012 foot wide pave-
ment. The new road will by-pass the most congested villages and towns.



- 18
(ii) Existing Traffic
84.       There have been no regular traffic counts on the existing road.
The consultants carried out very limited traffic surveys just prior to
the 1963 monsoon season. These confirmed the generally held impression
that traffic volumes vary considerably from road section to road section
and that they increase with proximity to main towns and markets. Traffic
volumes also vary with the harvest season and with the need for trucking
to supplement rail and water transport in the clearance of imports from
Chittagong.
85.       It is not possible to say how representative the traffic figures
are. In broad terms, however, it seems that in the immediate vicinity of
such large towns as Chittagong, Feni and Comilla daily traffic volumes
range between 200-400 vehicles. These then drop off rapidly to 100 or
less vehicles to build up again as the next market or town is reached.
This reflects the local service characteristics of much of the trucking
and bus services. Terminal to terminal traffic, which is small, has been
hindered by the lack of bridges and ferries between Daudkandi and Dacca
until a few months ago, and by the costs of transhipment.
86.       On the short section between Dacca and the industrial city and
port of Narayanganj traffic volumes ranged between 1700-2700 average per
day according to the section and between 350-380 per day on the more
roundabout route via Demra. These figures are more likely to be represent-
ative since they were based on continuous 24-hour counts for 8 successive
days and seasonal traffic is relatively unimportant here.
87.       The trucks using the road carried a wide variety of goods such
as rice, meat, fish, poultry, eggs, potatoes, mustard oil, betel leaves,
onions, crude sugar, kerosene, textiles, soap and a wide variety of
locally manufactured and imported general consumer goods as well as sand,
gravel and bricks for distribution to construction sites. There appears
to be no question of competition with the railway which is already over-
burdened and unable to meet the demands made upon it. The commodities
carried by trucks and their apparent short average hauls made them un-
suitable rail traffic. The buses are generally filled to capacity.
88.       There is wide scope, in principle, for the development of road
transport in the Dacca-Chittagong route. Though the route is only 150
miles long, it traverses an area inhabited by some 15-20 million people.
The area is intensively cultivated almost the entire distance from Chitta-
gong to Dacca. There are many large towns at short distances from one
another, which have to be fed from the near countryside. Dacca at one end
of the route, is East Pakistan's capital (present population 600,000).
Chittagong, at the other end, is East Pakistan's main port (present popu-.
lation 400,000). There are growing industrial complexes at or near the two
terminal cities and at some of the intervening towns.



- 19 -
(iii) Future Traffic
89.       During 1962-63 trucks cleared 720,000 tons, or 30 percent, of
the 2.3 million tons of cargo (excluding bulk fuels) imported through
Chittagong. It is not known what proportions were for local delivery
within Chittagong or for inland distribution along the existing road.
Nor is the volume of export traffic carried along the highway known. On
the assumption that the average truck carried 5 tons and worked 300 days
in the year the number of truck departures from the port daily would have
been 480. If only 10 percent of these moved up-country from Chittagong
this would give an up and down daily truck traffic of about 100 vehicles
over long sections of the road. At an 8 percent annual increase, or mid-
way in the range of traffic growth which the Bank has observed in many
countries during the early stages of motorization, the vehicles would more
than double over the next ten years. This should allow adequately for the
expected rates of increase in imports and industrial development in Chitta-
gong. In addition, there will be trucks carrying local produce and buses
carrying people into Dacca and Chittagong, both of which are expected to
pass the 1 million population mark in the 1970ts, as well as into Comilla
and Feni which may have populations of around 250,000 and 50,000 respect-
ively by 1971. The utilization of the highway network in itself can be
expected to generate traffic on this road. A minimum of 250-300 vehicles
per day on most sections of the road through to Daudkandi could be reason-
ably expected soon after its opening. On the basis of the Bank's experience
and generally accepted engineering practices this level of traffic, parti-
cularly when composed largely of trucks and buses, is sufficient to justi-
fy the proposed design standard of the road, although in other more favor-
able environments it would be built more cheaply. If traffic increased at
only 4 percent average per year over the assessed life of the road, figures
of around 1,000 vehicles per day could reasonably be expected in later
years. The Dacca-Narayanganj section has traffic volumes now in excess
of 1,000 vehicles per day that justify a major road improvement.
90.       Ammann & Whitney forecast that the urban population of the Chitta-
gong-Dacca complex may be expected to reach 4 million people by 1970 and
10 million by 1980. Their 1970 estimate exceeds that of the Harvard Group
who are advising the Government. Nevertheless, if the highway consultants,
forecast turned out to be a gross over-estimate and the size of the urban
markets in the service area of the road to be supplied with milt, eggs,
fruits and local vegetables was only 5 million people, much greater volumes
of truck transport would be required than at present. Urban populations
generally generate more passenger journeys than rural populations. It can
be expected, therefore, that as the towns in the service area of the road
increase in size, and as living standards rise, many more bus and automo-
bile journeys will be made. On any set of reasonable assumptions as to
the growth of truck, bus and automobile traffic there appears that there
will be sufficient suitable traffic to justify the proposed two-lane design
standard. The Government intends to make the foreign exchange available
for the purchase of a large number of motor vehicles (paragraph 17 above).



- 20 -
(iv) Benefits
91.       At present, truck operators find their costs to be around Rs
0.60-1.00 per vehicle mile depending on the vehicle's size and age. The
consultants estimate that a reduction in present ton-mile costs of around
40 percent should be attainable for hauls of around 150 miles on the new
road by new 5-ton trucks. On the basis of the Bank's previous experience
there is no reason to disagree with this estimate. The new highway will
permit a freer flow of traffic; quicker turnarounds; greater annual mileage;
reduced vehicle maintenance and smoother running surfaces.
92.       Part of the fall in transport costs can be expected to be passed
on the farmers and thus act as a stimulus to development. This can be
illustrated by a recent interesting case in the service area. Four to
five years ago the only means of marketing farm produce or of getting goods
to and from Daudkandi, Comilla, Feni and Chittagong was by water or rail.
The present passable road was then opened between these cities but left them
unconnected with Dacca. Almost immediately vegetables, fruits, milk, eggs
and meat were trucked into Chittagong. In 1960 no potatoes were grown
around Comilla. In 1961, 30 acres were planted. In 1962, plantings in-
creased to 100 acres and in 1963 to 300 acres. Farmers were able to get
20-40 percent more for them in Chittagong than in the local Comilla market
The Pakistan Academy for Rural Development, which has investigated this
case, estimates that the per capita income of the farmers concerned doubled
to over Rs 650 per year. Their yields of local staples increased 3-4
times. No one claims the road was solely responsible for these improve-
ments. It was, however, an essential link in the chain of events. With-
out easy and cheaper access to larger markets the farmers would have had
less incentive to increase output or improve methods.
93.       The significance of this is illustrated by the fact that even
today Dacca, which is some 50 miles from Comilla, does not provide a market
for the perishables grown around Comilla, which Chittagong which is over
100 miles away provides a ready and growing market. The Academy staff be-
lieve that given access to the Dacca market, and with prices slightly above
those now prevailing in Chittagong, sales could at least double. Although
this case is unique in East Pakistan it is illustrative of what can be
done. Similar responses may take longer elsewhere in the service area of
the road but without the price incentives that lower transport costs offer
they are likely to be long delayed.
94.       In addition to reducing road transport costs and stimulating
agricultural production the road will render useful social and adminis-
trative benefits to the 20 million or so people served by it. Its con.
struction by a large labor force will immediately increase demand for
foodstuffs along the route and thus act as a stimulus to farmers to shift
more quickly from subsistence to cash crop agriculture. The injection of
cash incomes into the area could also have a stimulating effect on the de-
mand for cheap consumer goods produced by local manufacturing firms.



- 21 -
95.       A quantitative assessment of benefits would be arbitrary and
conjectural. There is little over-the-road transport at present. In-
formation about the traffic volumes and traffic patterns on the present
road is sketchy. The available date on vehicle operating costs is poor.
The present situation is unlikely to have little resemblance to the future.
It is problematical how far vehicle operating costs might fall since
there is no comparable previous experience in East Pakistan. There is un-
certainty as to the nature and volumes of future traffic to be routed
through the ports of Chittagong and Chalna. Trends in population size;
its urban-rural distribution; agricultural productivity; industrial output
and per capita incomes are still uncertain variables. Whether the Govern-
ment can raise the level of domestic savings or whether sufficient foreign
exchange can be earned or obtained through foreign loans or credits to sustain
the   growth   rate envisaged is not yet determined.  Slight variations
in the assumptions relating to the foregoing factors would compound the
margin of error in a rate of return calculation.
96.       The above view is supported by TCI who state "it must be frank-
ly admitted that it would be impossible on the basis of known factors to
establish by generally accepted methods a favorable benefit/cost ratio
for highways in many areas of East Pakistan". However, their report con-
cluded that "the estimated costs to complete a basic trunk highway system
are justified by the ultimate benefits to be realized by promoting in-
dustry; through the provision of more rapid transport of raw materials and
products; by permitting movement of labor supply to the shifting points
of labor demand; by allowing farmers more prompt returns from their products;
by the general impetus to business and trade that usually results from im-
proved transport; and by facilitating administration of all branches of
Government throughout the Province. There is a social need for expanded
intercommunication of people and ideas, and the mobility of highway trans-
port is an invaluable and essential asset in times of national emergency"
(TCI Report, Vol. II, p. 237).  Ammann and Whitney attempted a quantita-
tive assessment of the Dacca-Chittagong road and concluded that the pre-
sent value of future measurable benefits, discounted at 5 percent, was
US$460 million. This figure is arrived at, however, on the basis of
questionable assumptions about present and future traffic, population and
urbanization trends, as well as GNP growth rates and per capita income and
expenditure that are in excess of those in the Bankls latest economic
report on Pakistants economic development program.
97.       Though no definite rate of economic return can be calculated,
from the Bank's experience there is every reason to believe that the bulk
of the traffic on the new road would be short haul freight and passenger
traffic which is economically more suitable for truck and bus transport
than for rail transport; that a sufficient volume of traffic is now clear-
ly in sight to justify a road built to the design standards proposed, and
that the project road would provide an adequate return on investment by
stimulating local production and trade, facilitating a shift from sub-
sistence to cash crop agriculture, and making it possible to move more
goods and passengers at reduced vehicle operating costs. Construction of



- 22 -
the road would also be an important step to the realization of the Go-
vernment s broad objectives of greater agricultural self-sufficiency and
the gradual industrialization of East Pakistan. These aims have been
accepted, at least implicitly, by the Bank and IDA by their participation
in the financing of Pakistants current Five-Year Plan. The available evi-
dence about the next and subsequent Five-Year Plans suggest further steps
will be taken towards these ultimate objectives. A modern highway
between Dacca-Chittagong is an integral part of the process. It is needed
for the economic haulage of passenger and freight traffic of the kind in-
appropriate for rail transport and will provide a useful supplement to the
present railroad link between the capital and the main port of the Province.
V. CONCLUSIONS AND RECONIENDATIONS
98.       The project is technically feasible; however, a number of tech-
nical issues remain to be resolved during the preparation of the final de-
sign of the construction part.
99.       The cost estimate of the project as proposed is conservatively
based and includes a reasonable allowance for contingencies.
100.      The East Pakistan Government has agreed to engage consultants
satisfactory to the IDA:
a) To prepare the final plans and contract documents for
the Dacca-Chittagong Highway and to supervise its cons-
truction in an executive capacity (paragraph 71).
b) To provide general advisory services to the R & H
(paragraphs 75 to 78).
c) To carry out feasibility studies of access to Dacca
and the Port of Chittagong (paragraph 51).
101.      Assurances have been obtained from both the Central and the
Provincial Governments that they will undertake that sufficient funds will
be available to carry out the project and that these funds will be made
available as required (paragraph 70),
102.      Agreement has been reached with the East Pakistan Government re-
garding the Dacca-Chittagong Highway that it will:
a) Complete the work now under way on the Demra-Daudkandi
section and provide the ferries now available for two
river crossings (paragraph 45).
b) Expand the ferry service as required (paragraph 48).



#- 23 -
c) Carry out studies to determine the most suitable type
of pavement (paragraph 52).
d) Use adequate design standards including provision for
right_of-way sufficiently wide for a four-lane divided
highway on the Dacca-Narayanganj section (paragraph 58),
review the standards for width of shoulders and bridges
and the need to pave the shoulders (paragraph 54), and
consider the need for additional by-passes (paragraph 51).
e) Make adequate provision to insure that the highway in-
cluding the Demra-Daudkandi section will be properly
maintained (paragraphs 56 and 67).
f) Legislate and enforce suitable highway regulations
(paragraph 58).
g) Prevent encroachment on the right-of-way (paragraph 58).
h) Carry out periodic traffic counts for a period of ten
years ( paragraph 58).
i) Review the need for using equipment for embanlknent
construction (paragraph 74).
103.      The project provides a suitable basis for a development credit
by the Association of US$22.5 million equivalent.
May 18, 1964.



Table 1
EAST PAKISTAN
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Statistics
A) Number of Motor VehiclesRegistered by Types 1/ - (1958-62)
% Increase
1958      1959      1960      1961     1962     (1958-62)
Cars 1/               b,060     4,180     4,460     5,640   6,570        62
Jeeps                 1,070     1,370     1,300     1,640    2,160      102
Buses                 1,330     1,570     2,050     2,160    2,570       93
Trucks                2,740     2,880     3,500     4,,460   5,930       116
Other                   450     1,000     1,390     1,840    1,980      340
Total           9,650    11,000    12,700    15,740   19,210        99
B)  Distribution of Motor Vehicles by Registered Districts - 1962
Dacca         Chittagong         Other
District         District        Districts        Total
Cars  /                 3,800            1,660          1,110          6,570
Jeeps                     990              600             570          2,160
Buses                     540              480           1,550          2,570
Trucks                  1,840            2,240           1,850         5,930
Others 3/                 810              230             940         1,980
Total             7,980            5,210           6,020        19,210
M%              (42%)             (27/o'0)       (31%)          (100%)
1/  The figures are thought to be not entirely reliable.  As such should be
regarded only as indications of broad trends or distributions.
2/ Includes taxis but excludes auto-rickshaws.
3/ Includes station wagons, ambulances, fuel tankers, delivery vans, etc.



Table 2
EAST PAXISTAN
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards for Dacca - Chittagong Highway
Design speed (HPH)                                  60
Hlinimum radius (feet)                           1,140
Maximum gradient (percent)                           3
Stopping sight distance (feet)                    475
Maximum super-elevation (percent)                    8
Right-of-way width (feet)                          160
Roadway pavement width (feet)                       22
Shoulder widthl/ (feet)                              9
Shoulder pavement wfidth 1/ (feet)                   8
Maximum axle load                                9 tons plus 20% for impact
Bridge design loading                            Indian Road Congress "AA"
Bridge roadway width (feet)                         26
Bridge sidewalk width (feet)                         6
Slope of embankment                                 2:1
Roadway pavement: reinforced concrete with brick base or bituminous
surface with crushed brick base.
Shoulder pavement: 2 courses of brick.
1/ To be reviewed by consultants during
the design chase.



Table 3
EAST PAKISTAN
HIGHWAY PROJECT
List of W4orks and Cost Estimate
(In millions of U.S. dollars equivalent)
Local    Foreign    Total
1. Road Construction                           -
Dacca-Chittagong Road (151.1 miles)
Dacca-Demra                         0.90       o.80     1.70
Sitalakyha Bridge                   0.50       1.10     1.60
Daudkandi-Chittagong               12.50      13.70    26.20
Narayanganj Spur (h.8 miles)              0.50       o.4o     0.90
Lay-by areas                              0.50       0.20     0.70
1.90      16.20    31.10
Engineering                               1.00       2.10     3.10
Government duties and taxes               3.00        -       3.00
18.90      18.30    37.20
2. Consultants? Services and
Laboratory Facilities
Management consultants to R & H             o.60     1.00     1.60
Central laboratory facilities             0.25       0.25     0.50
Weigh bridges                              -         0.10     0.10
Feasibility studies of access to
Dacca and Chittagong                o.05       o.o5     0.10
0.90       1.40     2.30
Sub-total                          19.80      19.70    39.50
Contingencies (about 15%)           3.20       2.80     6.oo
TOrAL                         23.00     22.50    45.50
1/ Includes US$1.5 million equivalent for right-of-way costs,



0   0   C
(I) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CC ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....l



EAST PAMSDTAN
DACCA-CHITTAGONG HIGHWAY
-     PRINCIPAL EXISTING ROADS
PROJECT ROAD
- - - --P i-,- RAILWAYS
0   10  20  30   40  50  (
MILES
tf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aym AD              N DAX
MAY 1964                                           IBRD - 1322 R



