CREDIT NUMBER 53 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(East Pakistan Highway Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 11, 1964


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 53 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(East Pakistan Highway Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 11, 1964


﻿AGREEMENT, dated June 11, 1964, between the ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT As-
SOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of a project in the Province of East
Pakistan to complete construction of a highway between
Dacca and Chittagong and to construct an extension to
Narayanganj; to provide advice and assistance in improv-
ing highway organization and operation; and to make
studies relating to access to Dacca and Chittagong;
TVHESEAS the Province of East Pakistan will, with the
Borrower's assistance, carry out or cause to be carried out
the said Project and, as part of such assistance, the Bor-
rower will make available to the Province of East Pakistan
the proceeds of the development credit provided for herein;
and
WHEREAS the Association is willing to make a develop-
ment credit available on the terms and conditions provided
herein and in a project agreement of even date here-
with between the Province of East Pakistan and the
Association;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations; Special Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of Development Credit Regulations No. 1
of the Association dated June 1, 1961, with the same force


﻿4
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein subject,
however, to the following modifications thereof (said De-
velopment Credit Regulations No. 1 as so modified being
hereinafter called the Regulations) :
(a) Section 3.01 is deleted and the following new section
is substituted therefor:
"Section 3.01. Currencies in which Cost of Goods is to
be Paid and Proceeds of the Credit are to
be Withdrawn.
(a) Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the cost of goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be paid in the
respective currencies of the countries from which
such goods are acquired.
(b) The proceeds of the Credit shall be withdrawn
from the Credit Account:
(i) on account of expenditures in currency of the
Borrower or for goods produced in (including
services supplied from) the territories of the
Borrower, in such currency or currencies as
the Association shall from time to time
reasonably select;
(ii) in all other cases, in the currency in which the
cost of the goods financed out of such pro-
ceeds has been paid or is payable.
(c) The Borrower and the Association may from
time to time agree on any other currency in which
withdrawals shall be made."
(b) A new Section 3.04 is inserted after Section 3.03
as follows:
"Section 3.04. Purchase of Currency of Withdrawal with
Other Currency.
If withdrawal shall be made in any currency which
the Association shall have purchased with another
currency for the purpose of such withdrawal, the


﻿5
portion of the Cr,dit so withdrawn shall be deemed
to have been withdrawn from the Credit Account in
such other currency for the purposes of Section
3.03.1"
(c) Section 3.04 is renumbered as Section 3.05.
(d) Section 6.02 is amended by inserting the words "or
the Project Agreement" after the words "the De-
velopment Credit Agreement."
(e) Paragraph 5 of Section 9.01 is amended to read as
follows:
"5. The term 'Borrower' means the Islamic Re-
public of Pakistan, acting by its President."
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement or in
the Schedule thereto, unless the context shall otherwise
require, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
(a) The term "Province" means the Province of East
Pakistan, a political subdivision of the Borrower.
(b) The term "Project Agreement" means the agree-
ment between the Province and the Association of
even date herewith, providing for the carrying out
of the Project, and shall include any amendments
thereof made by agreement between the Province
and the Association.
(c) The "Department" means the Roads and Highways
Department of the Railways, Waterways and Road
Transport Department, or any successor agency or
agencies.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this Agree-
ment set forth or referred to, a development credit in an


﻿6
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-two
million five hundred thousand dollars ($22,500,000).
SECTION 2.02. The Association shall open a Credit Ac-
count on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such Credit Account the amount of the Credit.
The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights of
cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Agreement
and the Regulations.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall be entitled,
subject to the provisions of this Agreement and of the
Regulations, to withdraw from the Credit Account:
(a) such amounts as shall have been expended for the
reasonable foreign currency cost of goods required
for carrying out the Project, except on account of
Part A of the Schedule to this Agreement;
(b) the equivalent of a percentage or percentages to
be established from time to time by agreement be-
tween the Borrower and the Association of such
amounts as shall have been expended for the reamon-
able cost of goods required for carrying out Part A
of the Schedule; and
(c) if the Association shall so agree, such amounts as
shall be required by the Borrower to meet payments
under each of the foregoing paragraphs;
PROVIDED, however, that withdrawals shall not be made on
account of expenditures prior to April 15, 1964; and
PROVIDED, further, that withdrawals shall not be made with
respect to Part A of the Schedule unless and until the
general consultants referred to in Part B (2) of the
Schedule are retained in accordance with Section 2.01 (b)


﻿7
of the Project Agreement and unless and until the Province
shall have adopted highway regulations, satisfactory to the
Association, referred to in Section 2.08 of the Project
Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (% of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. The
Borrower shall also pay to the Association a service charge
at the same rate on the principal amount of any special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 4.02 of the Regulations and outstanding from time
to time.
SECTION 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable
on each April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15,
1974 and ending April 15, 2014, each installment to and in-
cluding the installment payable on April 15, 1984 to be one-
half of one per cent (  of 1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per
cent (1 %) of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of
the Credit to be applied exclusively to financing the cost of
goods required to carry out the Project described in the
Schedule to this Agreement. The specific goods to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit and the methods
and procedures for procurement of such goods shall be de-
termined by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, subject to modification by further agreement
between them.


﻿8
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound engineering and financial practices.
(b) The Borrower shall take all action which shall be
necessary on its part to enable the Province to perform all
its obligations under the Project Agreement and shall not
take any action that would interfere with the performance
of such obligations by the Province.
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall re-lend the pro-
ceeds of the Credit or the equivalent thereof to the Province
on financial terms satisfactory to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall at all times make or cause to be
made available to the Province, promptly as needed, all
sums and other resources required for the carrying out of
the Project.
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information shall
include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the inter-
national balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to
time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower
shall promptly inform to Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof.


﻿9
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.04. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or
laws in effect in its territories and free from all restrictions
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
SECTION 4.05. This Agreement and the Project Agree-
ment shall be free from any taxes that shall be imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories on or in connection with the execution, issue,
delivery or registration thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph (a)
or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations shall
occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days, or (ii)
if any event specified in paragraph (b) or paragraph (j) of
Section 5.02 of the Regulations shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower, then at any sub-
sequent time the Association, at its option, may declare the
principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and
payable immediately, and upon any such declaration such
principal shall become due and payable immediately any-
thing in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
SECTION 5.02. For the purposes of Section 5.02(j) of
the Regulations, the following addition event is specified:
namely, the Province shall have failed to perform any cove-
nant or agreement under the Project Agreement.


﻿10
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 8.01(b) of the Regulations:
namely, the execution and delivery of the Project Agree-
ment on behalf of the Province have been duly a,:thorized
or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
SECTION 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter within the meaning of Section 8.02(b) of the Regu-
lations, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association: namely, that the Project
Agreement has been duly authorized and ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Province and con-
stitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Province in
accordance with its terms.
SECTION 6.03. A date 60 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
8.04 of the Regulations.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTIoN 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1969, or such other date as may from time to time be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Regulations:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Rawalpindi, Pakistan
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Economic
Rawalpindi


﻿11
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.
SECTION 7.03. The Secretary to the Government of Pak-
istan, Economic Affairs Division, is designated for the
purposes of Section 7.03 of the Regulations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ A. G. N. KAZI
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION
By /s/ GEORGE D. WOODS
President


﻿12
SCHEDULE
Description of Project
The purpose of the Project is to improve highway trans-
portation facilities and to strengthen the highway organiza-
tion of the Province of East Pakistan. The Project in-
cludes:
A. Highway Construction
The completion of construction of about 150 miles of
paved highway between Dacca and Chittagong and a
five mile extension from that highway to Narayanganj.
The highway from Dacca to Chittagong will be a two-
lane highway with the exception of the section, about
three miles in length, from Dacca to the intersection
with the Narayanganj extension, which will be a four-
lane highway. The Narayanganj extension is to be
designed as a four-lane highway, but only two lanes
will be constructed under the Project. The highway
traverses three major rivers: the Sitalakhya River,
over which a bridge will be constructed as part of the
Project; and the Meghna and Meghna Gunti Rivers,
for which ferry services will be provided.
B. Consultants
The retention of consultants:
(1) to prepare final engineering design and to super-
vise the construction described above;
(2) to advise and assist the Department for a three
year period on matters of highway organization and
operation;
(3) to prepare feasibility studies of access by road,
from the highway described above, to Dacca and to
Chittagong and its port.


﻿13
C. Equipment for Highway Regulation and Laboratory
Facilities
The purchase and utilization of equipment for the reg-
ulation of traffic on the highway described above and
of laboratory facilities for general use of the De-
partment.
The Project is expected to be completed about June 30,
1969.


