CREDIT NUMBER 53 PAK
Project Agreement
(East Pakistan Highway Project)
BETWEEN
PROVINCE OF EAST PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 11, 1964


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 53 PAK
Project Agreement
(East Pakistan Highway Project)
BETWEEN
*                  PROVINCE OF EAST PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 11, 1964


﻿AGREEMENT, dated June 11, 1964, between the PROVINCE
OF EAST PAKISTAN, acting by its Governor (hereinafter
called the Province), and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT As-
SOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS by a Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith (hereinafter called the Development Credit
Agreement) between the ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower
a development credit in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-two million five hundred thousand dollars ($22,500,-
000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement but only on condition that the
Province agree to undertake certain obligations to the As-
sociation as hereinafter in this Project Agreement set
forth; and
WHEREAS the Province in consideration of the Associa-
tion's entering into the Development Credit Agreement
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations
hereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Whenever used in this Project Agreement,
unless the context shall otherwise require, the several
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and
in the Regulations (as so defined) shall have the respective
meanings therein set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants of the Province
SECTIoN 2.01. (a) The Province shall cause the Project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound engineering and financial practices.
(b) In carrying out the Project, the Province shall em-
ploy, or cause to be employed, qualified and experienced
consultants satisfactory to the Association and upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Province shall cause all construction under the Project to
be carried out by contractors satisfactory to the Association
and employed under contracts satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.
(d) The general design standards and the type of sur-
facing (including pavement) to be used for Part A of the
Schedule to the Development Credit Agreement shall be
determined by agreement between the Province and the
Association, subject to modification by further agreement
between them.
(e) Upon request from time to time by the Association,
the Province shall promptly furnish or cause to be fur-
nished to the Association the work schedules for the Proj-
ect and the plans and specifications for Part A of the Sched-
ule to the Development Credit Agreement and any material
modifications subsequently made therein, in such detail as
the Association shall request.
(f) The Province shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to identify the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the use thereof in
the Project, to record the progress of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with consist-
ently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and accounts of the Department responsible for the carry-
ing out of the Project or any part thereof; shall enable the
Association's representatives to inspect the Project, the


﻿5
goods and any relevant records and documents; and shall
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit,
the Project, the goods and the operations and accounts of
the Department responsible for the carrying out of the
Project or any part thereof.
SECTION 2.02. The Province shall at all times make or
cause to be made available, promptly as needed, all sums
and other resources required for the carrying out of the
Project.
SECTION 2.03. (a) The Province and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasona-
bly request with regard to the general status of the Credit.
(b) The Province and the Association shall from time to
time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Province
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof, or the performance by the
Province of its obligations under this Agreement or which
shall increase or threaten to increase materially the esti-
mated cost of the Project.
SECTION 2.04. Except as shall be otherwise agreed be-
tween the Province and the Association, the Province shall
insure or cause to be insured with responsible insurers all
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit which are
to be imported into its territory. Such insurance shall cover
such marine, transit and other hazards incident to purchase
and importation of the goods to the site of the Project and
shall be for such amounts, as are consistent with sound
commercial practices. Such insurance shall be payable in
the currency in which the cost of the goods insured there-
under shall be payable or in dollars.


﻿6
SECTION 2.05. Except as shall be otherwise agreed by
the Province and the Association, the Province shall cause
all. goods purchased in whole or in part with the proceeds
of the Credit to be used in the territories of the Borrower
exclusively in the carrying out of the Project; and shall
cause title to all such goods to be obtained free and clear
of all encumbrances.
SECTION 2.06. The Province shall pay or cause to be paid
all taxes, if any, imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in the territories of the Borrower on or in
connection with the execution, delivery or registration of
this Agreement or the Development Credit Agreement or
the payment of principal and service charges thereunder.
SECTION 2.07. The Province shall cause every portion
of the highway and extension referred to in Part A of the
Schedule to the Development Credit Agreement to be ade-
quately maintained, and shall cause all necessary repairs
to be made promptly, all in accordance with sound engineer-
ing practices.
SECTION 2.08. The Province shall make every effort to
cause to be enacted, and shall take such steps as may be
necessary to enforce, adequate highway regulations, includ-
ing legislation to prevent encroachment on highways in the
territories of the Province.
SECTION 2.09. Until such time as bridges are constructed,
the Province shall provide adequate ferry service across
the Meghna and Meghna Gunti Rivers to meet the traffic
demand on the Dacca-Chittagong highway.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date when the Development Credit Agreement
shall become effective as provided therein.
SECTION 3.02. This Agreement shall terminate and the
obligations of the parties hereunder shall cease and deter-


﻿7
mine if and when the entire principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid by the Province to the Borrower in
accordance with the agreement entered into between them
pursuant to Section 4.02 (a) of the Development Credit
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 4.01. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Project Agreement
and any agreement between the parties contemplated by
this Project Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at its address hereinafter
specified, or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Province:
Chief Secretary
Government of East Pakistan
Dacca
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
East Pakistan
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.


﻿8
SECTION 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be exe-
cuted, under this Project Agreement on behalf of the Prov-
ince may be taken or executed by the Chief Secretary to
the Government of East Pakistan or such other person or
persons as the Province shall designate in writing.
SECTION 4.03. The Province shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation sufficient evidence of the authority of the person or
persons who will, on behalf of the Province, take any action
or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by the Province pursuant to any of the provi-
sions of this Project Agreement and the authenticated spec-
imen signature of each such person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this
Project Agreement to be signed in their respective naames
by their representatives thereunto duly authorized and de-
livered in the District of Columbia, United States of Amer-
ica, as of the day and year first above written.
PROvINCE OF EAST PAKISTAN
By /s/ A. G. N. KAZI
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION
By /s/ GEORGE D. WOODS
President


