CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 408 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 29, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 408 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 29, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 29, 1973, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) on June 11, 1964 the Association agreed to make available
a development credit (hereinafter called Credit No. 53) in an amount equivalent
to twenty-two million five hundred thousand dollars ($22,500,000) to assist in
the financing of a project to improve highway transportation facilities, in particular
the Dacca-Chittagon highway, and to strengthen highway organization (hereinafter
called the Highway Project);
(B)   withdrawals from the credit account opened by the Association under
Credit No. 53 were suspended on December 29, 1971;
(C)   by an exchange of letters between the Government of Sweden
(hereinafter called Sweden) and the Borrower on May 31, 1972 and June 2, 1972,
Sweden agreed to extend financial assistance to the Borrower as an interim source
of financing for certain projects of high developmental priority in the territories
of the Borrower, including the Highway Project;
(D)   the Borrower has requested the Association to resume its financial
assistance for the continuation and completion of the Highway Project, as modified
as hereinafter set forth, by extending to the Borrower a development credit for
such purpose, and to include therein provision for repayment to the Association
of the principal amount of Credit No. 53 withdrawn from the credit account
opened by the Association thereunder and for repayment to Sweden of the financial
assistance extended by Sweden for the Highway Project;
(E)   the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend a development credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the


﻿4
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the term "RHD" means the Roads and Highways
Directorate of the Ministry of Communications of the Borrower.
ARTICLE 1.1
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-five million dollars
($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for the purposes set forth
in paragraph 6 of such Schedule and for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods ard services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 1id to be
financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account
of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the
Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1977 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿5
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing
October 15, 1983 and ending April 15, 2023 each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 15, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project, through RHD, with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound technical, engineering,
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
qualified and experienced consultants and experts acceptable to the Association
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) In carrying out Parts A and C of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall make available to said contractors, and maintain
in good operating condition, all RHD equipment from time to time designated
for such purpose by agreement between the Borre ,ver and the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all necessary action to ensure that
any land or rights in respect to land required for the execution, operation and
maintenance of the Project shall be acquired as and when needed for such purpose.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the highway
section to be constructed under Part A(i) of the Project shall confo. m to the design
standards set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿6
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts C and D of
the Project, prepare and submit by October 31, 1973 (or such other date as may
be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association), for the approval of
the Association, (i) design requirements for the new RHD headquarters building,
(ii) a list of repairable equipment owned by RHD, with a time-table for its
restoration to operating condition, details of manpower, parts and tools required
for such purpose, and the estimated cost of said restoration and of maintenance
of said equipment in operating condition, (iii) a list of tools required in maintenance
depots for RHD equipment, and the estimated cost thereof, (iv) an RHD staff
training program, and the estimated cost of said program, and (v) details of all
technical assistance proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports and work and procurement
schedules, for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to inspect
the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Convenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting


﻿7
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
RHD and of any other departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out or operating the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, by March 31, 1974 (or such other date
as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association), permit loaded
truck traffic to utilize the ferry crossings over the Dacca-Chittagong highway,
and for such purpose shall have completed by said date all necessary modifications
of said ferry crossings.
Section 4.03. The Borrower undertakes that (i) all works and facilities
included in the Project, as well as all works and facilities constructed or installed
under Credit No. 53 or with interim financing provided by Sweden, and all works
and facilities not included in the Project but necessary to the proper and efficient
utilization and operation thereof, will at all times be properly and efficiently
operated and adequately maintained and repaired in accordance with sound
technical, engineering, administrative and financial practices and standards, (ii) the
Borrower will make available, or cause to be made available, promptly as needed,
all funds, facilities, services and other resources which will be required for the
aformentioned purposes, and (iii) the Borrower will consult with the Association
before transferring responsibility for the maintenance and repair of any of the
aforementioned works and facilities to any department, agency or authority other
than RHD.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall collect and record, in accordance with
appropriate statistical methods and procedures (including regular and systematic
traffic counts), such technical, economic and financial information as shall be
reasonably required for proper planning of maintenance, improvements and
extensions of its highway system.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take all such steps as shall be reasonably
required to ensure that the dimensions and axle-loads of vehicles using the
Borrower's road network are appropriate to the structural and geometric design
standards of the roads used.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall establish facilities within each division of
RHD for primary maintenance of its equipment, and an adequate number of
decentralized maintenance depots capable of performing more extensive
maintenance of equipment, in accordance with a plan to be prepared and submitted
to the Association by October 31, 1973 (or such other date as may be agreed
upon between the Borrower and the Association).


﻿8
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures, in respect of the Project, of RHD and of any other departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out or operating any part
of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower and of any agency of the Borrower.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures, in respect of the Project, of RHD and of any other departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out or operating any part
of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿9
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
A greement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
Section 8.01. The date September 28, 1973, is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04. of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Secretary of the Planning Commission of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03
of the General Conditions.


﻿10
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Planning Commission
Bangladesh Secretariat
Dacca
Cable address:
PLANCOM
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s / A. R. Choudhury
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
A mount of the
,redit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
I.   Civil Works under Part       11,000,000         100% of expenditures
A of the Project                               to be refinanced under
paragraph 6(a) hereof;
otherwise 100% of
foreign expenditures
and 50% of local
expenditures
II.  Consultant services,          3,000,000         100% of foreign ex-
technical assistance                            penditures
and training
III.  Construction of new            800,000         67% of total ex-
headquarters building                           penditures
for RHD
IV.  Equipment for new RHD         1,200,000         100% of foreign ex-
headquarters building                           penditures
and under Part D(i) of
the Project
V.   Ferry facilities               400,000          100% of foreign ex-
penditures and 70%
of local expenditures
VI.  Repayment of principal         3,626,980.35
amount withdrawn under
Credit No. 53
VII. Unallocated                   4,973,019.65
TOTAL        25,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:


﻿12
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, under Categories
I to V, inclusively, except as provided in paragraph 6(a) hereof;
(b)   expenditures under Category I, except as provided in paragraph 6(a)
hereof, until consultants have been retained under Part B(i)(a) of the Project; and
(c)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and


﻿13
(c)  if the Association shall have reasonably    determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Categories I,
III or V shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
6.    The Association shall, on the Effective Date or as soon as possible thereafter,
withdraw from the Credit Account and pay:
(a)   to Sweden, under Categories I, II and IV respectively, the equivalent
of amounts disbursed by Sweden, until the Effective Date, in respect of items
within said Categories, under the interim financing arrangements for the Highway
Project referred to in paragraph (C) of the Preamble to this Agreement; and
(b)   to the Association, under Category VI, an amount equivalent to
$3,626,980.35, in full repayment in advance of maturity of the principal amount
of Credit No. 53 withdrawn from the credit account opened by the Association
thereunder, it being hereby agreed and recorded that, for the purpose of determining
the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid by the Borrower, ;n accordance
with Section 4.03 of the General Conditions, this withdrawal shall be deemed to
have been made as of the respective dates of withdrawal under Credit No. 53.
7.    Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, if by December 31, 1973 (or
such other date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association)
contractors shall not have been employed to carry out Part A(ii) of the Project
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, no expenditures in respect
of Part A(ii) of the Project shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel an amount of
$4,700,000 of the Credit allocated to Catcgory I.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:     Highway Construction, Repair and Improvement
(i)         Construction of about 20 miles of two-lane paved road in the
Feni section of the Dacca-Chittagong highway.
(ii)        Construction of a bridge over the Sitalakhya River at Kachpur,
and of approaches thereto.
(iii)       Repair and improvement of the Surma River bridge at Sylhet.
Part B:     Consultant Services, Technical Assistance and Training
(i)         Retention of consultants to:
(a)   supervise construction under Part A(i) and (ii) of the
Project;
(b)   advise   and  assist  RHD    with  respect  to   highway
organization and operations;
(c)   prepare a feasibility study and detailed engineering for a
new bridge over the Surma River at Sylhet, and provide
any further engineering or supervision of construction
required for the repair and improvement of the existing
bridge;
(d)   prepare pre-feasibility studies for the improvement of
high-priority river crossings on the main road network;
(e)   prepare standard designs for ferries and terminals, improve
ferry operations, and related matters; and
(f)   provide any consultant services required for the design and
construction of the new headquarters building for RHD
referred to in Part C hereof.


﻿15
(ii)       Employment of experts to assist in RHD administration and
operations.
(iii)      Training of RHD staff.
Part C:    Headquarters Building for RHD
Construction and equipping of a new headquarters building for RHD.
Part D:    Other Assistance to RHD
(i)        Provision of spare parts, tools and workshop equipment to
service RHD construction and maintenance facilities; and
workshop equipment and tools for RHD maintenance depots.
(ii)       Modification and improvement of existing ferry facilities, to
enable use by loaded trucks, on all unbridged river crossings on
the Dacca-Chittagong highway.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1976.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Part A of the Project
I.    Contracts for paving under Part A(i) and (ii) of the Project will be awarded
on the basis of international competition under procedures consistent with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, dated April
1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with the following procedures:
1.    Bidders shall be prequalified, and at least 45 days will be allowed for the
submission of prequalification documents. The Borrower shall, before qualification
is invited, inform  the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed,
including the text of the notice of invitation to prequalify, and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification, shall
be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its comments before the
applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such additions to or deletions
from the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.    Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, and shall make such modifications in the said documents as
the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders. A period of at least 90 days will be allowed for the submission
of bids.
3.    Bids will be accompanied by a bid bond or bank guarantee amounting to
not less than 2% of the estimated contract value.
4.    After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to herein, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿17
5.    The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Association's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
6.    Each successful bidder will furnish a bank guarantee in an amount not less
than 10% of the contract price or a performance bond in an amount of not less
than 100% of the contract price, which guarantee or bond shall remain in effect
at least until provisional acceptance of the works provided for in the contract.
7.    Each contract shall include:
(i)         where the estimated duration of the contract exceeds 12 months,
a price escalation clause;
(ii)        a provision for retention, for a period of at least one year after
provisional acceptance of the works by the Borrower, of not
less than 10% of the amount payable to the contractor on
monthly invoices, until the total amount retained shall have
reached not less than 5% of the total contract price, and for
substitution at the option of the contractor of a bank guarantee
for the amount so retained, in a like amount and for a like
term; and
(iii)       a provision holding the contractor responsible for correcting
defects in construction for a period of at least one year after
provisional acceptance of the works by the Borrower.
8.    Two conformed copies of each contract shall be furnished to the Association
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
II.   Part A (iii) of the Project shall be carried out in accordance with the following
procedures:
1.    The Borrower will request the firm    of contractors which built the bridge
to prepare a design for repairing the bridge and installing footways on both sides
of the structure, and to provide cost estimates for said work. The design and cost
estimates shall be reviewed by a consultant acceptable to the Association and, if
acceptable to the Borrower and said consultant, shall be submitted to the
Association for its approval. Thereafter, the Borrower will negotiate a contract
for the execution of said work with said firm and submit it to the Association
for its approval.


﻿18
2.    In the event that, after preparation of design and cost estimates by said
firm and approval by the Association, a satisfactory contract for the execution
of said work cannot be negotiated with said firm, a contract for the execution
of said work shall be awarded in accordance with the procedures set forth in
sub-paragraphs I to 8, inclusively, of paragraph I above.
3.    In the event that said firm is unwilling or unable to prepare the design and
cost estimates, the Borrower will engage a consultant acceptable to the Association
to do so. After approval by the Association of the design and cost estimates
prepared by said consultant, a contract for the execution of said work shall be
awarded in accordance with the procedures set forth in sub-paragraphs I to 8,
inclusively, of paragraph I above.
Part C of the Project
Part C of the Project shall be carried out in accordance with the following
procedures:
1.    After making a determination of RHD's likely work program in terms of
road construction and maintenance, RHD shall prepare its requirements for design
of a headquarters building which will consolidate RHD offices presently scattered
at various locations in and near Dacca, and submit outline specifications for approval
by the Association. Thereafter, RHD will invite submission of outline designs and
plans for said building, including cost estimates for its construction, by competition
among local qualified architects, and shall select the best proposal submitted, taking
into consideration not only architectural merit but costs. After selection, the best
proposal (outline designs and plans, and cost estimates) shall be submitted to the
Association for its approval. Thereafter, the architect whose proposal has been
selected shall prepare detailed designs, specifications, contract drawings and
documents and updated cost estimates. RHD shall pre-qualify bidders and award
a contract for the execution of said work in accordance with standard government
procedures. The contract shall be submitted to the Association for its approval.
2.    When said building is nearing completion, RHD shall prepare and submit
to the Association an up-do-date list of furnishings and equipment required therefor,
and proceed with the procurement thereof in accordance with the procedures set
forth below with respect to Part D(i) of the Project.
Part D(i) of the Project
Except with respect to items required for rehabilitation or maintenance of
existing equipment for which purpose spare parts, tools or equipment are to be


﻿19
obtained directly from the manufacturer, or with respect to any purchase order
for goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $1,000, all spare parts,
tools or equipment to be acquired under Part D(i) of the Project shall be procured
on the basis of international competition under procedures consistent with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, dated April
1972, as revised in October 1972. Any contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more shall require the prior approval of the Association.
With respect to any other contract, two conformed copies thereof shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of any such contract.
Part D(ii) of the Project
Ready-made items required for modification of the existing ferries, including
their motors, which are available from the supplier of said ferries, shall be procured
from such supplier; other items required for modification of the ferries, pontoons
and ramps, including minor civil works, shall be procured in accordance with the
Borrower's normal procurement procedures.
Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison for Goods included
in Category IV of the table set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
produced goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided, and
bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for
imported goods, or the ex-factory price for locally produced goods. The cost to
the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in
the evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for
Procurement.
2.    For purposes of the provisions hereinafter set forth, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
(a)   "Preferred Domestic Bid" means a bid offering goods manufactured
in Bangladesh if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Bangladesh of not less than 20% of the ex-factory bid price.


﻿20
(b)   "Non-preferred Domestic Bid" means any other bid offering goods
manufactured in Bangladesh.
(c)   "Foreign Bid" means any bid other than those specified in (a) or (b)
above.
3.    A  margin of preference may be granted by the Borrower to Preferred
Domestic Bids. Such preference shall be granted by adding to each Foreign Bid,
for the purpose only of comparison with Preferred Domestic Bids, an amount
(hereinafter called "Domestic Preference Margin") equal to the smaller of (i) the
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the goods offered in the bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid
price of such goods.
4.    If Preferred Domestic Bids are received, the comparison among all evaluated
bids for each contract shall be made in the stages and with the preferences indicated
below:
Stage                     Bids to be Compared                     Preference
I.         All Preferred Domestic Bids and Non-preferred         None
Domestic Bids.
I.        (a)  Lowest evaluated bid under Stage 1, if           Add Domestic
Preferred Domestic Bid, with all Foreign         Preference
Bids;                                           Margin to
Foreign Bids
or
(b)  Lowest evaluated bid under Stage I, if           None
Non-preferred Domestic Bid, with all
Foreign Bids.
III.       If lowest evaluated bid under Stage II is not         None
the lowest evaluated bid under Stage I, all
Foreign Bids.
5.    The Bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted to Preferred Domestic Bids, the information required to establish the
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 4
Design Standards for Dacca-Chittagong Highway
Design speed:                                             60 mph
Right of way:                                             160 ft
Minimum radius:                                          1,000 ft
Maximum gradiant:    desirable                            3%
special case                         6%
Maximum super-elevation:                                  8%
Shoulder width:      desirable                              9 ft
minimum                                6 ft
Pavement width:                                            22 ft
Pavement wearing course:                        Bituminous double
surface treatment
Equivalent standard single axle
load for pavement design:                         18,000 lbs
Bridge design load:                             HS20-44 AASHO
Width between curbs for bridges:
(    up to 30 feet              Full formation width
Span Length     (    over 30 to 250 feet                   26 ft
(    over 250 feet                         30 ft


