RESTRICTED
I1I@  0ppYZ               Report No. P -766
FILE    COPYRprNo
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
ADMINISTRATION OF THE
TERRITORY OF PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
December 29, 1969



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOM;ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE TERRITORY
OF PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
1.        I submit the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed
credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$5.0 million
to the Administration of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In 1967 the Territory Administration applied for an IDA credit
of $6.0 million to help finance a project comprising:   (i) the planting
and replanting of coconut palms;  (ii) the development and stocking of
beef cattle ranches;  (iii) an oil palm smallholder scheme - a new
venture in the Territory;  and (iv) infrastructure related to it.   The
project was appraised in early 1968.   Owing to the lack of IDA funds,
however, only part of the project could be financed at that time. The
oil palm smallholder sub-project was selected as being of the most
immediate benefit to the indigenes and an IDA credit of $1.5 million
for this was approved in January 1969. An IDA mission reappraised the
three other sub-projects in May 1969 and also examined the Territory
Administration's request for IDA assistance in implementing a second
phase of the oil palm smallholder scheme.
3.        Negotiations were held in Washington from November 25 to
December 9, 1969. Mr. G.A. Low, Financial Minister at the Australian
Embassy, represented the Commonwealth Government and the Territory
Administration.
4.        The Territory has received one Bank loan and one IDA credit
to date. The following is a summary statement relating to these as of
November 30, 1969:



-2-
Loan or                                            Amount   (US $ million)
Credit No.  Year      Borrower          Purpose     Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
546      1968  Administration of   Telecommuni-   7.0    -       6.9
Territory of Papua    cations
and New Guinea
137      1969 Administration of    Agriculture          1.5      1.4
Territory of Papua
and New Guinea
Total                                     7.0  1.5
of which has been repaid to Bank
and others                              -     -
Total now outstanding                    7.0  1.5
Amount sold                     0.2
of which has been repaid       -       0.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA           6.8   1.5
Total undisbursed                        6.9   1.4      8.3
== =_
5.        A highway construction project stemming from a recently
completed UNDP transportation survey, fer which the Bank acted as the
Executing Agency, was appraised in December 1969; I expect to present
it to the Exe-cutive Directors during this fiscal year. The Territory
Administration has also requested financial assistance for a hydro-
electric project which is being studied.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
-6.-       Borrower:             The Administration of the Territory
of Papua and New Guinea
. Amount:               The equivalent in varinus currencies
of US$5.0 million
Purpose:              To help finance an agricultural develop-
ment project which consists of increasing
the cultivation of mil palms and coconut
palms, helping the beef cattle industry,
and associated services.
Amortization:         In fifty years, including a ten-year
period of grace, through semi-annual
installments of half of 1% from
December 15, 1979 through June 15, 1989
and lVo from December 15, 1989 through
June 15, 2019.



- 3 -
Service Charge:       3/4 of l% per annum
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.        A report entitled   .r1.c li;u-cal iDevel.opTen PAroject - Po.uua
led HTer 3uim-ea` (P-25a) d0ited Dec-.bar 23, 1969 is attached.
8.        The Territory's economy is predominantly agricultural.   More
than half the people in paid employment and most of those who are self-
employed are engaged in agricultural pursuits. Agriculture earns
nearly all the Territory's export income and almost two-thirds of the
gross national product is derived from it. Investments in the agricul-
tural sector are expected to yield substantial economic benefits by
introducing indigenes and land resources into the monetized sector of
the economy and reducing the present heavy dependence of the Territory
on subsistence farming. Variou.s Bank missions to the Territory have
recommended encouragement of cash cropping and cattle production through
a strengthening of extension services and the provision of credit
facilities.  The proposed project will further these objectives and
support the Administration's efforts to diversify and increase the
production of crops for export and to lessen the need for high-cost meat
imports.
9.        The proposed project consists of four sub-projects which are:
(i) a five-year tranche of a ten-year program for the planting and re-
planting of 10,000 acres of existing coconu.t estates; (ii) the develop-
ment and stocking of 150,000 acres on private beef cattle ranches and
the improvement of government services to the beef cattle industry;
(iii) the settlement of 980 smallholders who will grow oil palms over
an area of about 8,000 acres on the island of New Britain adjacent to
the area covered by the previous IDA project, and (iv) the constru.ction
of a wharf at Kimbe to serve the oil palm project.
10.       The Department of Agriculture, Stock and Fisheries (DASF) of
the Territory Administration will be responsible jointly with the Papua
and New Guinea Development Bank (PNGDB) for the implementation of the
coconut, beef cattle and oil palm sub-projects. Experience gained under
the on-going New Britain Smallholder Project has shown that DASF and
PNGDB have suitably qualified staff for this purpose. The construction
of the Kimbe W4harf will be supervised by the Au.stralian Department of
Public Works. Approximately $2.5 million of the proceeds of the proposed
credit will be on-lent to PNGDB, an au.tonomous institution, for a 25-year
term with interest at lVo. PNGDB, in turn, will make loans to coconut
planters, oil palm smallholders and beef cattle ranchers for periods of
up to twenty years. Oil palm smallholders, as in the case of the New
Britain project will pay interest at the rate of 6% per annum; coconut
planters will pay interest at 6-3/4% per annum.   Beef cattle production
is more remunerative than coconu.t development; therefore, interest will
be charged to ranchers at the rate of at least 7% per annum. PNGDB



raised its interest rate for loans of this type from 6% to 6-3/4% in
October 1969 and is reluctant to increase it by a further V. per annum
to the required level immediately but has undertaken to do so not later
than July 1, 1970.
11.       The oil palm sub-project is a continuation of, and very similar
to, the New Britain Smallholder Project which is being financed by IDA.
Progress on the latter has been impressive. My recommendation that the
Association support the second phase of the smallholder project is also
based on the fact that optimal conditions for oil palm development obtain
in the Territory and this activity appears to be one of the most attract-
ive in terms of the expected return on the planned investment. The
Administration, together with Harrisons & Crosfield, an experienced
plantation company, set up the New Britain Palm Oil Development Company
(INBPOD) which operates a nucleus estate and oil palm processing facilities
in the vicinity of the smallholder project ares. NBPOD supp'lies small-
holders with planting materials; it also processes and markets their
output. An agreement extending these arrangements for the sub-project is
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
12.       The Kimbe Wqharf sub-project aims primarily at providing port
facilities to serve the section of New Britain Island being developed
for the oil palm program. A link road and bridge is being constructed
between the port site and the palm oil mill to serve the project area.
13.       The project is estimated to cost a total of $8.76 million
equivalent. The proposed $5.0 million IDA credit would cover 57% of the
cost, equivalent to the estimated import component of the project. IDA
financing is related closely to expenditures on imported items and dis-
bursements would be made on a percentage basis against expenditures
incurred on (i) construction of plantation roads and agricultural
extension services; (ii) loans extended to beef cattle ranchers,
coconut planters and oil palm smallholders; and (iii) contracts for
the Kimbe Wharf. The total estimated cost of each sub-project is as
follows (figures in parentheses are the approximate amounts of IDA
financing budgeted for them): coconut planting and replanting - $1.1
million ($300,000); beef cattle ranching - $2.7 million ($1.7 million);
oil palm smallholder development - $3.9 million ($1.9 million);   Kimbe
Wharf construction - $1.0 million ($700,000).
1h.       Work on all four sub-projects has begun.   A contract for the
supply of steel piling for the Kimbe Wharf has been awarded and tenders
for its construction are being evaluated. IDA's international
competitive bidding procedures have been followed by the Administration
in this regard. I recommend that eligible expenditures on the project
after June 30, 1969, be reimbursable from the credit; they are un-
likely to have exceeded $600,000 up to the date of this report.
15.       The project is economically and financially justified.   Apart
from increasing agricultural production and providing a significant
number of jobs for indigenes, it will encourage two relatively new



activities in the Territory - cattle breeding and oil palm cultivation.
Cattle ranching could be extended to some 10,000,000 acres of natural
grassland which is presently unused. There is also substantial scope
for oil palm development. Copra is the Territory's main export. It
is therefore important to maintain and, if possible, to increase the
production from existing coconut estates. Investment opportunities at
the present stage of the Territory's development are limited and, of
those available, the proposed project appears to be very promising.
The rates of return expected for the sub-projects are acceptable. They
are as follows: coconut plantations - 9%; beef cattle stocking and
development - 11%; Phase II alone of the oil palm development - about
20%; Phases I and II and the Kimbe Wharf considered together - 15%.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMETTS AND AUTHORITY
16.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Association
and the Adrninistration of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea, the
Report of the Committee required by Article V, Section I(d) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and the text of a Resolution
approving the proposed credit are being distributed separately. Necessary
modifications have been made to General Conditions applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements to take into account the fact that the Borrower is
not a member. A draft of a letter from the Commonwealth stating certain
financial assurances and tax privileges is also being distributed.
17.       An amendment of the existing Agreement between the Administration
and NBPOD to make it applicable to the proposed oil palm sub-project is a
condition of effectiveness, as is the execution of a subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Administration and PNGDB.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
18.       A report "Current Economic Position and Prospects of the Terri-
tory of Papua and New Guinea" (EAP-8a) was circulated to the Executive
Directors on September 9, 1969. The Territory's economy, of which
agriculture is the mainstay, has made steady progress in several
respects during the past decade. The monetary sector's contribution to
GNP has been growing at the rate of 10% annually; GNP, as a whole, has
risen by about 5-6% per annum. The Territory's first development plan
was launched in 1968. It is based on assurances of the continuation of
substantial financial support from the Commonwealth and the intensifica-
tion of efforts to mobilize local resources.
19.       Exports expanded in 1967/68 by 29% because of the buoyant
world market for copra, cocoa and coffee - the Territory's major export
commodities. Tea was also added to the export list. In 1968/69 there
was a more normal increase in exports of about 9%0. The percentage of
imports financed by exports increased from 40% in 1966/67 to 44% in
1967/68 and 1968/69. The merchandise trade gap in absolute terms, how-



- 6 -
ever, widened from $A75 million in 1967/68 to $A81 million in 1968/69,
albeit at a slower rate than before 1966/67. This, together with the
deficit on invisible account, was largely financed by Australian grants
which amounted to $A78 mill-ion in 1967/68 and $A87 million in 1968/69.
20.       The Administrationts total expenditure for FY1968/69 increased
by 12% over the previous year and is budgeted to increase by 18% in
FY1969/70, as the development program gets under way. This compares
with an expected 10% annual growth in the GNP of the monetized sector.
The composition of expenditure is also changing, writh a slow down in
current expenditure and an acceleration of capital expenditure. Capital
expenditure as a percentage of total public expenditure increased from
28% during the early sixties to 33% during FY1964/65-FY1967/68. Witlhin
current expenditure, more emphasis has recently been placed on outlays
necessary for social and economic development. Internal revenue
collection continued to increase rapidly - it rose by 15' in 1968/69
and is expected to increase by 23% in FY1969/70. It amounted, however,
to only 37% of the total expenditure in 1968/69; this being less than
current expenditure, public saving was negative. Domestic revenues as
a percentage of the total financial resources of the public sector are
rising slowly. The budget deficits have been covered mainly by
Australian grants and the Territory is likely to require similar
assistance for many years to come.
21.       The first development program (1968/69-1972/73) wias announced
in September 1968, incorporating many recommendations of the Bank's 1963
survey mission and its 1967 economic mission. The principal objective
of the program is the expansion of production with greater participation
by the indigenes.
22.       The plan envisages a high rate of investment in the monetized
sector totalling $A838 million during the five-year period. Approximate-
ly 46% of this will be public investment - largely for agriculture,
transport and other infrastructural services. Private investment is
expected to play a major role in agriculture, industry, mining and
tourism. The activities which will be encouraged by the proposed credit
have high priority in the agricultural sector of the development plan.
23.       The discovery of large copper ore deposits on Bougainville
Island may result in a major breakthrough in the Territory's economic
viability and have a substantial impact on exports and public revenues.
Even so, Australian Government grants will continue to be a major source
of finance for implementing the program.
24.       The Territory - being a separate political entity under
Australian administration and heading towards independence - is qualified
for IDA assistance on the ground of low per capita income (US$100 per
person for the indigenes), improving economic performance, and a
relatively weak balance of payments position.



- 7 -
PART VI - COIPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREE1MET
25.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Agreement would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOIIENDATION
26.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Attachment                                  Robert S. McNamara
President
December 29, 1969                           by J. Burke Knapp



