CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 175 PNG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Agricultural Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
ADMINISTRATION OF THE TERRITORY OF
PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
DATED JANUARY 30, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 175 PNG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Agricultural Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
ADMINISTRATION OF THE TERRITORY OF
PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
DATED JANUARY 30, 1970


﻿AGREEMENT, dated January 30, 1970, between INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and ADMINISTRATION OF THE TERRITORY OF
PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA (hereinafter called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of the General Con-
ditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of
the Association dated January 31, 1969, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, sub-
ject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicble to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association as so modified being herein-
after called the General Conditions), namely:
(a) Paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is deleted and the fol-
lowing paragraph is substituted therefor:
"5. The term 'Borrower' means the Administration
of tie Territory of Papua and New Guinea."
(b) Paragraph (d) of Section 6.02 is deleted and the fol-
lowing paragraph is substituted therefor:
"'(d) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that the Project
can be carried out or that the Borrower will be able
to perform its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or there shall occur any such
change in the nature and constitution of the Bor-
rower as shall make it improbable that the Borrower
will be able to carry out its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement".


﻿4
(c) The words " The Borrower " are deleted in the second
sentence of Section 4.01 and in paragraph (e) of Section
6.02 and the words " The Commonwealth of Australia" are
substituted therefor.
(d) Paragraph (a) of Section 10.01 is deleted and the
following paragraph is substituted therefor:
" (a) the execution and delivery of the Development
Credit Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary gov-
ernmental action, including action of the Common-
wealth of Australia; and"
SECTION 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
following terms, wherever used in this Development Credit
Agreement, have the following meanings:
(a) "NBPOD" means "New Britain Palm Oil Develop-
ment Limited", a company limited by shares, estab-
lished under the Borrower's Companies Ordinance
1963 and in accordance with a Memorandum of Asso-
ciation and Articles of Association, both dated May
12, 1967; and such term "NBPOD" also includes:
(i) "Mosa Plantation Pty. Limited", a company
limited by shares, established under the Bor-
rower's Companies Ordinance 1963 and in ac-
cordance with a Memorandum of Association
and Articles of Association, both dated May
23, 1967, which company is wholly owned by
NBPOD and is sometimes hereinafter referred
to as "the Plantation Company"; and
(ii) "Mosa Oil Mill Pty. Limited", a company lim-
ited by shares, established under the Borrow-
er's Companies Ordinance 1963 and in accord-
ance with a Memorandum of Association and
Articles of Association, both dated May 23,


﻿5
1967, which company is wholly owned by
NBPOD and is sometitnes hereinafter referred
to as "the Factory Company".
(b) "PNGDB" means "The Papua and New Guinea
Development Bank", an instrumentality of the Bor-
rower established by the Papua and New Guinea
Development Bank Ordinance 1965 (No. 2 of 1966).
(c) "Management Agreement" means the Management
Agreement and Amending Agreement between
NBPOD, the Plantation Company and the Factory
Company, of the one part, and Harrisons and Cros-
field (A.N.Z.) Limited, a Company incorporated
under the laws of the State of Victoria, Common-
wealth of Australia, of the other part, dated May
29, 1967, as the same may be amended or supple-
mented from time to time.
(d) "NBPOD Agreement" means the agreement be-
tween the Borrower and NBPOD, providing for the
undertaking by NBPOD of certain obligations in
respect of the carrying out of Part C of the Project
and related matters, dated May 30, 1969, as the same
may be amended or supplemented from time to time.
(e) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and PNGDB, pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this
Agreement, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, as the same may be amended or
supplemented from time to time.
(f) "Freight and Disease Control Subsidy" means any
subsidies to reimburse ranchers for expenditures
incurred in connection with the importation of live-
stock into the territories of the Borrower, including,
but without limitation, shipping expenses, disease
inspection and control at port of origin, freight to


﻿6
the port of destination and agent's fees, whether
pursuant to the provisions of the Animal Disease
and Control Ordinance of 1952-1966 of the Borrower
or otherwise.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this Devel-
opment Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, a devel-
opment credit in an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to five million dollars ($5,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and
shall credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) Tl amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and in accordance with the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1
to this Development Credit Agreement, as such allocation
shall be modified from time to time pursuant to the provi-
sions of such Schedule or by further agreement between
the Association and the Borrower.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed under this Development Credit Agreement:
(i) such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, as shall be required to
meet payments to be made) for loans included in
Category 2 of the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement;


﻿7
(ii) the equivalent of thirty-six per cent (36%) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Asso-
ciation shall so agree, as shall be required to meet
payments to be made) for loans included in Cate-
gory 1 of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Development
Credit Agreement;
(iii) the equivalent of sixty-four per cent (64o) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Asso-
ciation shall so agree, as shall be required to meet
payments to be made) for loans or for goods or
services included in Categories 4, 5 and 6 of the
allocation of the proceeds of the Credit referred to
in Section 2.02 of this Development Credit Agree-
ment;
(iv) the equivalent of sixty-eight per cent (68o) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Asso-
ciation shall so agree, as shall be required to meet
payments to be made) for goods or services in-
cluded in Category 7 of the allocation of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of
this Development Credit Agreement; and
(v) the equivalent of eighty-four per cent (84o) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Asso-
ciation shall so agree, as shall be required to meet
payments to be made) for goods or services included
in Category 3 of the allocation of the proceeds of
the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this Devel-
opment Credit Agreement;
provided, however, that if there shall be an increase in the
estimate of such payments under loans or for goods or
services included in any of the Categories 1, 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7,
the Association may by notice to the Borrower adjust the
stated percentage applicable to any such Category as re-
quired in order that withdrawals of the amount of the
Credit then -tllocated to any such Category and not with-


﻿8
drawn may continue pro rata with the payments remaining
to be made for goods or services included in any such
category.
SECTION 2.04. (a) No withdrawal from the Credit Ac-
count shall be made on account of payments for taxes
imposed by the Borrower or by the Commonwealth of
Australia or any of their political subdivisions on or in
connection with the importation or supply of goods or serv-
ices included in Category 2 of the allocation of the proceeds
of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this Development
Credit Agreement.
(b) It is hereby agreed, pursuant to Section 5.01 of the
General Conditions, that withdrawals from the Credit Ac-
count may be made on account of payments made prior to
the date of this Development Credit Agreement but after
July 1, 1969.
SECTION 2.05. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for purposes of Section 4.02
of the General Conditions.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Service and other charges shall be pay-
able semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each
year.
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 15 and
December 15 commencing December 15, 1i 19 and ending
June 15, 2019, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on June 15, 1989 to be one-half of one per


﻿9
cent ('/2 of 17) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1%o) of
such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall apply the pro-
ceeds of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of
this Development Credit Agreement to expenditures on the
Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Development Credit
Agreement.
(b) In the carrying out of the provisions of the foregoing
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall relend
to PNGDB, pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
the amount of the Credit allocated from time to time to
Categories 1, 2 and 4 of the allocation of the proceeds of
the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this Development
Credit Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, (a) the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured (i) in the case of
goods and services included in Category 7 of the allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02
of this Development Credit Agreement, on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969; and
(ii) in all other cases, in accordance with such methods and
procedures as shall be determined by agreement between
the Association and the Borrower, subject to modification
by further agreement between them; and (b) contracts for
the procurement of goods and services referred to in sub-
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section shall be subject to the
prior approval of the Association.


﻿10
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclu-
sively in carrying out the Project (other tl"'n Part C.1
thereof).
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall (i) carry out Parts
B.2, B.3, C.2, 0.3, 0.4, C.5 and D of the Project, (ii) make
and maintain arrangements with PNGDB under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Association,
for the carrying out by PNGDB of Parts A, B.1 and C.6
of the Project, and (iii) make and maintain arrangements
with NBPOD under the NBPOD Agreement, for the carry-
hig out by NBPOD of Part 0.1 of the Project, all with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound agri-
cultural, engineering, administrative, economic and finan-
cial practices and shall provide, and cause PNGDB and
NBPOD to be provided with, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall (i) cause PNGDB
punctually to perform all the covenants, agreements and
obligations of PNGDB set forth in the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and (ii) take or cause to be taken all action
necessary or appropriate to enable PNGDB and NBPOD
to perform all covenants, agreements and obligation i of
PNGDB and NBPOD respectively set forth in the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement and the NBPOD Agreement and
shall not take or permit any of its political subdivisions or
agencies to take any action which would prevent or inter-
fere with the performance by PNGDB or NBPOD of such
covenants, agreements and olligations.


﻿11
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the NBPOD Agree-
ment in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association; and except as the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amend-
ing, abrogating, assigning or waiving any provision of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the NBPOD Agreement.
SECTION 4.03. The Borrower shall make arrangements
satisfactory to the Association under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement for the establishment and maintenance by
PNGDB of operating policies and procedures which shall
be followed by PNGDB in executing the Project. The pro-
visions of such arrangements dealing with interest rates
shall not be altered so as to decrease interrst rates without
the prior approval of the Borrower and the Association.
Otherwise, such arrangements shall be subject to modifica-
tion in consultation with the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 4.04. The Borrower shall promptly take all
steps required on its part under the Borrower's Land
Ordinance 1962-66 in order to acquire the ownership of
fifty thousand acres of land suitable for leasing to ranchers
engaged or to be engaged in the execution of the ranch
development plans rtferred to in Part B.1(ii) of the Project.
SECTION 4.05. The Borrower in consultation with the
Association shall review the Freight and Disease Control
Subsidy on or before December 31, 1972 with a view to its
termination by December 31, 1973 or as soon thereafter as
the development of the cattle industry in the territories of
the Borrower shall permit.
SECTION 4.06. In the carrying out of Parts 0.2, C.3, C.4
and C.5 of the Project, the Borrower shall:


﻿12
(a) grant to qualified settlers (hereinafter called the
smallholders) 99-year leases on Borrower's plots, each con-
taining about 15 acres of land suitable for oil palm culti-
vation, under good husbandry and residence conditions and
under such other conditions as shall be satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association, including, but without being
limited to, the Borrower's right to terminate any such lease
in the event of failure by the smallholder to perform his
obligations thereunder;
(b) cause the smallholders to (i) plant with oil palms a
minimum aggregate of about 7,800 acres not later than June
30, 1975, and to properly maintain and harvest such mini-
mum aggregate acreage thereafter; provided, however, that
if any or all of such smallholders fail to plant, maintain or
harvest as specified in the foregoing, the Borrower shall
take steps, satisfactory to the Association, to accomplish
such planting, maintaining and/or harvesting; and (ii) sup-
ply to the Factory Company, until they have fully repaid
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
loans made to them by PNGDB under Part C.6 of the
Project, their entire production of fresh fruit bunch, or
make alternative arrangements, satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, the Borrower and NBPOD; and
(c) make arrangements satisfactory to the Association
for the prompt reallocation of the Borrower's plots referred
to in paragraph (a) of this Section in the case of any
smallholder failing to execute a lease within thre3 months
from the date such lease is offered by the Borrower to such
smallholder.
SECTION 4.07. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall make and maintain arrangements,
satisfactory to the Association, with NBPOD under the
NBPOD Agreement, for:
(a) the Plantation Company to grow or import high-
yield oil palm seeds and to sell adequate quantities of seed-


﻿13
lings therefrom to the smallholders to be settled under
Part C of the Project; and
(b) the Factory Company to (i) accept, process and mar-
ket for a period of twenty-five years the fresh fruit bunch
production of not less than 7,840 acres of oil palms planted
by such smallholders at a purchase price to be established
in accordance with a formula to be agreed from time to
time between the Borrower and NBPOD in consultation
with the Association, on the basis set forth in Schedule 3
to this Development Credit Agreement and (ii) withhold,
for PNGDB 's account, from any amounts payable to such
smallholders on account of such production such part
thereof as shall be established by PNGDB as amortization
and interest on PNGDB loans made under Part C.6 of the
Project, such withholding not to exceed one-half of any
amounts so payable to such smallholders.
SECTION 4.08. In the event that the Factory Company's
processing and marketing facilities shall not be available
as provided in Section 4.07(b) (i) of this Development
Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall make arrangements,
satisfactory to the Association, providing for alternative
fresh fruit bunch processing and marketing facilities.
SECTION 4.09. If, at any time, the Borrower, or the Gov-
ernor-General of the Commonwealth of Australia, pursuant
to Sections 65(b) and 78 of the Papua and New Guinea
Act 1949-1968 of the Commonwealth of Australia, shall
enact or amend, or propose to enact or amend, any regula-
tions applicable in the territories of the Borrower, on the
marketing of coconut, copra, cattle, palm oil, palm kernels
or derivatives thereof, the Borrower shall promptly inform
the Association and exchange views with it thereon.
SECTION 4.10. The Borrower shall adequately maintain
or cause to be maintained all works, facilities and equipment


﻿14
related to the Project and from time to time shall make
or cause to be made all necessary renewals and repairs
thereof in accordance with sound agricultural and engi-
neering practices and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the purpose.
SECTION 4.11. The Borrower undertakes to insure or
cause to be insured, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Association for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or out of
the proceeds of PNGDB loans made under Parts A, B.1
and C.6 of the Project against marine, transit and other
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and de-
livery thereof to the place of use or installation and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable to replace or repair such goods.
SECTION 4.12. The Borrower shall: (a) furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association, promptly upon their
preparation, the reports, plans, specifications, contract docu-
ments and work schedules for the Project and any material
modifications subsequently made therein, in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request; and (b) not start
construction of Part D of the Project until such plans, speci-
fications, contract documents and work schedules for Part D
of the Project have been approved by the Association.
SECTION 4.13. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause
to be maintained records adequate to identify the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and out of the
proceeds of PNGDB loans made under Parts A, B.1 and
C.6 of the Project, to disclose the use thereof in the Project,
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to reflect in accordance with consistently main-
tained sound accounting practices the operations, adminis-
tration and financial condition, in respect of the Project,


﻿15
of any department or agency of the Borrower (including
PNGDB) responsible for the carrying out of the Project
or any part thereof or the maintenance of all works, facil-
ities and equipment related thereto and shall enable the
Association's representatives to inspect the Project, the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and out
of the proceeds of PNGDB loans made under Parts A, B.1
and C.6 of the Project, and any relevant records and
documents.
(b) The Borrower shall at all times maintain auditing
arrangements satisfactory to the Association, with regard
to all expenditures made in connection with Parts A, B, C.2
through 6 and D of the Project.
SECTION 4.14. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to ensure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower
and the Association shall from time to time at the request
of either party, exchange views through their representa-
tives with regard to: the performance by the Borrower of
its obligations under this Development Credit Agreement,
the administration, operations and financial condition of
any department or agency of the Borrower (including
PNGDB) responsible for the carrying out of the Project
or any part thereof or the maintenance of all works, facil-
ities and equipment related thereto, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning: the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
and of the proceeds of PNGDB loans made under Parts
A, B.1 and C.6 of the Project, the goods financed out of
such proceeds, the Project, and the administration, opera-
tions and financial condition of any department or agency
of the Borrower (including PNGDB) responsible for the
carrying out of the Project or any part thereof or the main-


﻿16
tenance of all works, facilities and equipment related
thereto.
(c) The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to inter-
fere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit
or the maintenance of the service thereof or the perform-
ance by the Borrower, PNGDB or NBPOD of their obliga-
tions under this Development Credit Agreement, the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement and the NBPOD Agreement. On
the part of the Borrower, such information shall include
information with respect to financial and economic condi-
tions in the territories of the Borrower and, to the extent
possible, the international balance of payments position of
the Borrower.
(d) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportu-
nity for accredited representatives of the Association to
visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for pur-
poses related to the Credit.
SECTIoN 4.15. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.16. This Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the laws
of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on or
in connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions or in Section 5.02 of this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall occur and shall continue for


﻿17
the period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent
time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its
option, may declare the principal of the Credit then out-
standing to be due and payable immediately together with
the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration
such principal, together with such charges, shall become
due and payable immediately, anything in this Development
Credit Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
SECTION 5.02. For the purpose of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified, namely:
any event specified in paragraph (a), paragraph (b),
paragraph (c), paragraph (d), paragraph (e) or
paragraph (f) of Section 5.03 of this Development
Credit Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower.
SECTION 5.03. For the purpose of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) Any provision of (i) the Palm Oil Industry (New
Britain Agreement) Ordinance 1967 (No. 23 of 1967) of the
Borrower including the Schedule thereto; or (ii) the Memo-
randa and Articles of Association, referred to in Section
1.02(a) of this Development Credit Agreement, of New
Britain Palm Oil Development Limited, the Plantation Com-
pany or the Factory Company; or (iii) the Management
Agreement, shall have been amended, suspended or abro-
gated so as to adversely affect the Project or the perform-
ance by NBPOD of its obligations under the NBPOD Agree-
ment.
(b) Any provision of the Papua and New Guinea Devel-
opment Bank Ordinance 1965 (No. 2 of 1966) of the Bor-


﻿18
rower shall have been amended, suspended or abrogated so
as to adversely affect the Project, the operations or finan-
cial condition of PNGDB or the performance by PNGDB
of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c) Any provision of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
shall have been amended without the prior agreement of
the Association.
(d) NBPOD shall have failed to perform any covenant
or agreement of NBPOD under the NBPOD Agreement.
(e) PNGDB shall have failed to perform any covenant
or agreement of PNGDB under the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment.
(f) A default shall have occurred in the performance of
any covenant or agreement on the part of the Borrower
under the NBPOD Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(g) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that NBPOD or PNGDB will be
able to perform their respective obligations under the
NBPOD Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following events are specified as ad-
ditional conditions to the effectiveness of this Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b)
of the General Conditions:
(a) the NBPOD Agreement has been amended so as to
be in accordance with this Development Credit Agree-
ment, in a manner satisfactory to the Association,
the Borrower and NBPOD and the execution and
delivery of such amendment on behalf of the Bor-
rower and NBPOD have been duly authorized or rati-


﻿19
flied by all necessary corporate and governmental
action; and
(b) the execution and delivery of the subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and PNGDB
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action.
SECTION 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the
General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opin-
ions to be furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Ordinance of the Borrower authorizing or
ratifying this Development Credit Agreement has
been laid before each House of Parliament of the
Commonwealth of Australia;
(b) that the amendment to the NBPOD Agreement re-
ferred to in Section 6.01(a) of this Development
Credit Agreement has been duly authorized or rati-
fied by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
Borrower and NBPOD and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of the Borrower and NBPOD in
accordance with its terms; and
(c) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the Borrower and PNGDB and consti-
tutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower
and PNGDB in accordance with its terms.
SECTION 6.03. The date of May 29, 1970 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Con-
ditions.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1974
or such other date as may from time to time be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿20
SECTION 7.02. The Administrator of Papua and New
Guinea is designated for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.
SECTION 7.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose,s of Section 9.01 of the General Condition.,:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
His Honour
The Administrator of
Papua and New Guinea
Port Moresby
Papua and New Guinea
Cable address:
Admin
Port Moresby
SECTION 7.04. Part A(v) of Schedule 2 to the develop-
ment credit agreement between the Association and the
Borrower, dated January 21, 1969, is hereby deleted.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed


﻿21
in their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ SIMON ALDEWERELD
Vice President
ADMINISTRATION OF THE TERRITORY OF
PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
By /s/ GORDON A. Low
Authorized Representative


﻿22
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Credit
Amounts Expressed in
Category                               U.S. Dollar Equivalent
Coconuts
1. Long-term PNGDB loans to coconut
planters                                   300,000
Livestock
2. Long-term PNGDB loans to ranchers        1,075,000
3. On-farm investment, including livestock
and educational facilities and freight
and disease control, in Borrower's
ranches                                    590,000
Oil Palms
4. Long-term PNGDB loans to smallholders     940,000
Borrower's services to smallholders:
5. Land sub-division and crop
extraction roads                          640,000
6. Agricultural extension services           360,000
7. Kimbe Wharf                               680,000
8. Unallocated                               415,000
TOTAL           5,000,000
Reallocation upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in
Categories 1 to 7 shall decrease, the amount of the Credit
then allocated to, and no longer required for, such Category
will be reallocated by the Association to Category 8.


﻿23
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in
any of the Categories 1 to 7 shall increase, an amount
equal to such increase in the case of Category 2, or in the
case of Categories 1, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 an amount equal to 36%,
84%, 64%, 64%, 64o and 68%, respectively, of such in-
crease, will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from Category 8, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as deter-
mined by the Association, in respect of the cost of the items
in the other Categories.


﻿24
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Project
The Project consists of:
Part A: Coconuts
Provision by PNGDB of long-term loans to about
25 planters to help finance planting and re-planting
coconuts on about 10,000 acres of existing coconut
estates.
Part B: Cattle Ranching
1. Provision by PNGDB of long-term loans to about
15 ranchers to help finance ranch development
plans for (i) the improvement and stocking of
about 100,000 acres on partly developed ranches
and (ii) the development and stocking of about
50,000 acres of additional grazing land.
2. Completion of development of the Borrower's
ranches at Baiyer River and Urimo, to produce
cattle for sale to native ranchers.
3. Provision by the Borrower of cattle management
training to native ranchers, including the con-
struction, furnishing and equipping of educa-
tional facilities at two of the Borrower's ranches
and extension of similar facilities in the Bor-
rower's ranch at Baiyer River.
Part C. Oil Palms
1. Expansion of the Factory Company's oil mill
capacity to process the fresh fruit bunch produc-
tion of not less than 12,480 acres of oil palms
planted by smallholders not later than June 30,
1974.


﻿25
2. Settlement by the Borrower, before December
31, 1972, of about 980 smallholders on about
14,700 acres in two blocks adjacent to the Planta-
tion Company's nucleus estate and in a third
block within 10 miles of Mosa in the West New
Britain District and, within 3 years after each
settlement, clearing and planting with oil palms
of 8 acres on each smallholder plot.
3. Provision by the Borrower of adequate educa-
tional and health services to the said small-
holders.
4. Provision by the Borrower of adequate extension
services, including supervision, for oil palm cul-
tivation and harvesting by the said smallholders.
5. Construction by the Borrower of all-weather crop
extraction roads linking each smallholder plot
with the Factory Company's oil mill.
6. Provision by PNGDB of long-term loans to the
said smallholders.
Part D. Kimbe Wharf
Construction by the Borrower of an overseas wharf
at Kimbe in the West New Britain District, capable
of handling the export by ocean-going freighters of
the Factory Company's oil mill production, to be
operative not later than June 30, 1971, and of an
all-weather road and associated bridges linking the
said wharf and oil mill.


﻿26
SCHEDULE 3
Basic principles to be followed by NBPOD and the Bor-
rower to formulate the purchase price of fresh fruit bunch,
payable by NBPOD to the smallholders:
(a) Each calendar month, the Borrower will gazette a
local f.o.b. equivalent of the European main port
c.i.f. price for palm oil and palm kernels as of an
agreed date in the preceding month, less agreed
freight, insurance, commissions, normal wastage and
overseas port rates.
(b) An agreed deduction will be made for wharf handling
charges and for running NBPOD 's oil pumping and
storage facilities at the wharf to determine the
"ini ,lk" value of palm oil. and the "in-store" value
of palm kernels.
(c) To cover the cost of financing bulk storage, a dedue-
tion of three months' simple interest at 0.5 per cent
per annum over NBPOD's bankers' current lending
rate on commercial advances will be allowed on the
said "in-tank" and "in-store'' values of oil and
kernels.
(d) An agreed deduction will be made for transportation
of palm oil and palm kernels from factory to wharf
and for bulk handling, bagging, handling and storage
of palm kernels to determine the factory tank value
of palm oil and the factory store value of naked palm
kernels.
(e) The ex-factory value of the derivatives of a ton of
smallholders' fresh fruit bunch will be derived from
the factory tank value of palm oil and the factory
store value of naked palm kernels by:
(i) first, deducting an agreed amount, per ton of
palm oil and per ton of naked palm kernels, in


﻿27
lieu of profit, depreciation and working capital
charges and standard company tax;
(ii) second, deducting any levies, cesses, export or
other charges or duties imposed by any taxing
authority of the Borrower, other than standard
company tax; and then
(iii) applying rates of extraction of oil and kernels
from smallholders' fresh fruit bunch, as agreed
on the basis of monthly factory tests satisfac-
tory to the Borrower.
(f) The purchase price of fresh fruit bunch payable by
NBPOD to the smallholders shall be the ex-factory
value of the derivatives of a ton of smallholders'
fresh fruit bunch less the following agreed charges:
(i) agreed factory operating costs, including man-
agement, but excluding depreciation and work-
ing capital charges; and
(ii) transport costs for collection and delivery to the
factory of smallholders' fresh fruit bunch, if
this service is performed by NBPOD.


