Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
1-Al      Z;P 3  8 il
Report No. 6668-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - ALAGOAS
May 26, .987
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document bs a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officia duties. Its otents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    -        Cruzado (Cz$)
US$1.00                   Cz$ 14.20 1/
US$1.00           -       Cz$ 31.00 2/
Cz$ 1.00                  US$0.0323
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Brazil                    =   January 1 to December 31
Northeast Rural Development Program         April 1 to March 31
Project                                 =   April 1 to March 31
1/ Exchange rate at time of appraisal (December 1986).
TI Exchange rate as of May 20, 1987.



FOX OFF IAUL UW  ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
BNDES              Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social
(National Bank for Economic and Social Development)
CEASA-AL           Central de Abastecimento da Alagoas S.A.
(Central Marketing Organization of Alagoas)
CEPA-AL            Fundacao Estadual de Planejamento Agricola de Alagoas
(State Foundation for Agricultural Planning Alagoas)
CIDAL              Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agropecuaria de Alagoas
(State Company for Agricultural Development-Alagoas)
CODEVASF           Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Vale do Sao Francisco
(Sao Francisco River Valley Development Company)
CPATSA             Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Tropico Semi-Arido
(Center of Agricultural Research for the Semi-Arid
Tropics)
EDRN-AL            Empresa de Recursos Naturais do Estado de Alagoas
(State Company for Development of Natural Resources)
EMATER-AL          Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural de Alagoas
(State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
ENERAPA            Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Brazilian Agricultural Research Company)
EMBRATER           Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(Brazilian Technical Assistance and Rural Extension
Company)
EPEAL              Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Estado de Alagoas S.A.
(Alagoas Agricultural Research Company)
FIBGE              Fundacao Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica
(Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics)
FINSOCIAL          Fundo de Investimento Social
(Social Investment Fund)
IC                 Comissao Interministerial Para o Nordeste
(Interministerial Commission for the Northeast)
ICM                Imposto Sobre a Circulacao de Mercadorias
(Value Added Tax on Product Circulation)
INCRA              Instituto Nacional de Colonizacso e Reforma Agraria
(National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian
Reform)
Thb document has a restricted distdbution a  may be used by rcipients only in the performance
of their offki duties, Its contents may not otheebo be discloed without World Bank authworlon.



INTERAL            Instituto de Terra do Estado de Alagoas
(Alagoas State Land Institute)
MINTER             Ministerio do Interior
(Ministry of the Interior)
MIRAD              Ministerlo de Reforma Agraria e Desenvolvimento Agricola
(Ministry of Agrarian Reform and Development)
NRDP               Northeast Rural Development Program
LDP                (Local Development Project)
POLONORDESTE       Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do
Nordeste
(Development Program for Integrated Areas of the
Northeast)
PROHIDRO           Programa de Recursos Hidricos
(Water Resources Program)
RDC                Conselho de Desenvolvimento Rural Regional
(Regional Rural Development Council)
SCC                (State Coordinating Commission)
SERTANEJO          Programa Especial de Apoio do Desenvolvimento da Regiao
Semi-Arida do Nordaste
(Special Program of Support for the Development of the
Semi-Arid Region of the Northeast)
SIMA               Sistema de Informacao de Mercado Agricola
(Agricultural Marketing and Information System)
SRDC               Conselho Estadual de Desenvolvimento Rural
(State Rural Development Council)
SUDENE             Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do X^rdeste
(Superintendency for the Development for the Northeast)
SSRC               (Support to Small Rural Communities)



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - ALAGOAS
Table of Contents
Page
I.    LCAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                            1
II.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  ..................................         3
Agriculture in the National Economy                       3
The Rural Northeast  .................*...                3
Government Development Strategy for the Rural
Northeast      ...... ..             .............      4
Experience with Past Bank Lending                         4
The State of Alagoas.........o...................         5
Location and Natural Features                           5
Economic and Social Conditions                          6
Land Use, Tenure and Production                         6
Agricultural Services                                     6
Rural Development in Alagoas                            6
III.  THE PROJECT                       ....                              7
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Origin                 7
Project Area                                              7
Project Objectives and Description                        8
Water Resource Development                              8
Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production         8
Rural Extension                                         9
Rural Investment Credit ........................        9
Marketing Services              ...............         10
Support to Small Rural Communities                     10
Project Administration and Training                    11
Land Tenure Improvement                                   11
Project Organization and Implementation o.........        11
Federal and Regional Levels                            11
State and Local Levels                                 12
Annual Planning and Budgeting e.................       12
Accounts and Auditing                                   12
Operating Agreements                                   13
Monitoring and Evaluation                               13
Project Cost                                             13
Financing Plan               ...........     .   o       13
Procurement                                              14
Disbursements                                            15
Project Benefits and Justification ..*.............       15
Production, Benefits and Farm Incomes                  15
Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact o.......oo......       16
Economic Analysis ..............o...........-.         16
Project Risks                                            16
This report is based on thee findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil during necember 1986. The mission comprised Messrs. H. von Pogrell
(m4ea4^" 1ao    A-            --Al i_]         " x__s   -^s



Table of Contents (Continued)                                            Page
IV.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..... ......        17
ANNEX 1 - PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND DETAILED FEATURES.*..****.. **** 20
Table 1.1 Structure of Land Holdings in the Project Area
Table 1.2 Evolution of State Agricultural Production..   26
Table 1.3 Project Priority Areas and Beneficiary
Distribution.*000****  * ........e oe* e.....  27
Table 1.4 List of Municipalities in the Project Area.... 29
Table 1.5 Annual Cost Phasing of Project Activities..... 30
Table 1.6 Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements......* 31
Table 1.7 Allocation of Loan Proceeds*.................. 32
Table 1.8 Financing Plan................................ 33
ANNEX 2 - PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .....................  34
Table 2.1 List of Executing and Collaborating Agencies.. 37
Chart 1  Project Coordination and Management Chart..... 38
Chart 2   Implementation Schedule....................... 39
ANNEX 3 - FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS ........................ 40
Table 3.1 Total Annual Area, Marketable Production and
Value of Major Crops and Livestock............ 42
Table 3.2 Characteristics of Illustrative Farm Models
Used in Financial and Economic Analyses....... 43
Table 3.3 Estimated Yields and Areas of Major Crops
at Farm Level................................. 44
Table 3.4 Economic Analysis............................  48
Table 3.5 Principal Prices Used for Financial
and Economic Analyses.....................e .. 49
Table 3.6 Project Sensitivity Analysis .....               50
ANNEX 4 - DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE................. 51
Maps: IBRD 18686-R - Yearly Land Adjudication Operati-ns
IBRD 20354   - Project Area
IBRD 20397   - Agricultural Potential Defined by
Dependable Rainfall



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT ALAGOAS
DRAFT STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Federative Republic of Brazil
Executing        The State Foundation for Agricultural Planning (CEPA-AL)
Agency:,         linked to Secretariat of Agriculture of the State of
Alagoas.
Amount:          US$42.0 million equivalent.
Terms:           Repayable in 15 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
Beneficiaries:   Some 32,400 low-income families operating farms of up to
50 ha in 49 municipalities (100'ha in the eleven
municipalities in the driest areas) of the State of
Alagoas would be direct beneficiaries of farm improvement
components. An estimated additional 7,600 families would
also benefit from the support to small rural communities.
Project
Description:     The proposed proiect is one of a series of projects within
the new Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP). The
project objectives are to: (a) increase agricultural
production and productivity; (b) generate income and
employment opportunities for low-income rural families;
(c) promote water resource development and technology
generation and diffusion to decrease small farmers'
vulnerability to recurring droughts and pest outbreaks;
(d) increase community participation in all phases of the
development process; and (e) strengthen the State of
Alagoas' capacity to provide efficient agricultural
services to small farmers. In order to meet its
objectives, the project would support water resource
development for agricultural and domestic use,
agricultural research, agricultural extension, rural
iestment credit, marketing services, funding for
community subprojects and project administration and
training.
Risks:           Project risks include: (a) insecure land tenure;
(b) inefficient delivery of project services; (c) lack of
sufficient interiustitutional cooperation; (d) recurring
droughts and pest outbreaks (boll weevil) on the major
cash crop, cotton; and (e) delays and shortfalls in
counterpart funding and credit. The project has been
designed so as to minimise these risks* Progress will be
closely followed up by Bank staff through review of annual



- 2 -
operating plans and improved supervision, monitoring and
evaluation. Implementation of the Northeast Region Land
Tenure Improvement Project and the Government's agrarian
reform would Increase land tenure security. Streamlined
administrative procedures, measures for institutional
strengthening and technical assistance for selected
agencies would improve efficiency and project
coordination. Crop diversification and intensified
technology generation and diffusion would make farmers
less vulnerable to drought and pest outbreaks. The
Government adopted new measures in 1986 to ensure the
timely availability of counterpart funds and credit. In
addition, the regional scope of the Northeast Program and
the support the Program enjoys among government and local
leaders should help secure adequate funding and
satisfactory implementation of the proposed project.
Estimated Project Costs:
- - - - US$ Millions - - - -
Local     Foreign     Total
A. Water Resource Development                  1.2        0.3         1.5
B. Agricultural Research and
Basic Seed Production                    4.2         0.5        4.7
C. Agricultural Extension                     19.7        0.6       20.3
D. Rural Investment Credit                   29.2         5.2        34.4
E. Marketing Services                         0.3        -            0.3
F. Support to Small Rural Communities         10.6        1.5       12.1
G. State Project Administration
and Training                             8.2         0.7        8.9
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                         73.4         8.8       82.2
Physical Contingencies                        0.7         0.2        0.9
Price Contingencies                            3.1        0.2        3.3
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                          77.2         9.2       86.4 1/
Financial Plan:
Government                                   44.4        -          44.4 2/
IBRD                                         32.8         9.2       42.0
TOTAL                                        77.2         9.2       86.4
__-_                     _
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY:   1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994   1995
Annual       3.4 2/   3.3      5.9     6.3      7.1     6.8     4.2    3.4
Cumulative   3.4      6.7    12.6    18.9    26.0    32.8    37.0   40.4
Rate of Return: 14%
Mbps:   IBRD 18686-R, 20354 and 20397
1/ Including about US$1.9 million of local taxes.
2/ Including initial deposit of US$2.0 million into the Special Account.



- 3 -
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the National Economy
2.01      Agriculture in Brazil has traditionally been the main source of
exports and employment, though a tentatively small contributor to GDP. In
1970, agriculture accounted for 12% of GDP, 44% of the economically active
population and 67% of total exports. In 1985, these figures were 13%, 30%
and 31%, respectively. Throughout the 19709, there was rapid expansion In
Brazil's agriculture (5% per annum); during the recession in the early
1980s, output and investment stagnated and then recovered in 1984 and 1985.
2.02      The performance of the sector in the 19709 masked sharply
disparate rates of growth between regions, farm types and individual
crops. The most dynamic expansion was with products that rely on heavy
capital investment or high levels of inputs, such as soybeans, citrus,
tobacco, cocoa and sugarcane, on large commercial farms in central and
southern Brazil. Much slower growth rates and, in some cases, declines
were recorded for such staple food crops as rice, maize, wheat, beans,
manioc and potatoes.
2.03      These trends in agricultural output were reflected in
agricultural trade. In the 19709, the rapid growth in agricultural exports
depended heavily on soy products, orange juice, cocoa, tobacco and sugar.
In 1970 these five crops accounted for only 15% of the total agricultural
exports of US$2.09 billion. By 1980, they accounted for over 50% of
Brazil's US$9.43 billion of agricultural exports. After 1980, the value of
agricultural exports hardly grew at all, except in 1984, when coffee and
orange juice were aided by highly favorable price movements.
The Rural Northeast
2.04      The Northeast is comprised of the States of Maranhao, Piaui,
Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe, Bahia,
the northern portion of the State of Minas Gerais, and the island of
Fernando de Noronha. The region covers a total area of over 1.5 million
km2 (18% of the country's total area).
2.05      The Northeast has been the nation's foremost problem region since
the late 1800s because of drought, uncertain rainfall, skewed land
distribution, and limited employment opportunities. These problems
resulted in high levels of poverty and underemployment. From 1970 to 1983,
3.3 million people migrated from the region, partially in response to a
five-year drought (1979-1983). In 1985, the Northeast had a total
population of 39 million (about 29% of the country's total), growing at
2.3% per annum with a population density of 25 inhabitants per square
kilometer. Half the population lives in rural areas and over 50% of the
work force is engaged in agriculture. Land ownership is highly
concentrated: farm-1 under 10 ha (70% of all farms) occupy less than 6% of
the farm area; farms over 500 ha (1% of all farms) occupy more than 40% of
the farm area. Rural incomes are low. In 1985, about half of the
Northeast rural population earned one quarter or less of the official
minimum wage (about US$600) as against 10% for the national figure.



- 4 -
2.06      The Northeast contributes about one-fIfth of the total value of
Brazilian crop production; many regionally produced commodities (cotton,
sisal, cassava and sugar) represent significant shares of national
production. The zona da mata, a narrow, fertile coastal strip, contains
one-third of of the regional population and a major proportion of industry
and plantation agriculture. The agreste, a transitional zone contiguous
with semi-arid areas, is dominated by mixed farming, as well as the raising
of cattle. The sparsely populated, semi-arid sertao, where cattle raising
and cotton cultivation are predominant, is the largest of the subregions
and the most vulnerable to periodic droughts.
Government Development Strategy for the Rural Northeast
2.07      Until the 1950s most Government efforts to assist in the rural
Northeast were limited to drought relief works, emergency programs and
incentives for export crops. The slow pace of socioeconomic development
and the need for improved regional planning led to the creation in 1959 of
the Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast (SUDENE). SUDENE
was originally responsible for coordination of public investment, drought
emergency measures, and powerful fiscal and credit incentives to attract
private investment. The initiative for regional policy formulation was
transferred to various Federal agencies in the 1970s with SUDENE continuing
to play an important role in the coordination of federally-funded special
rural programs.
2.08      The special rural programs have followed two approaches.  The
first was based on the integrated development of selected subregions. It
included the Development Program for Integrated Areas of the Northeast
(POLONORDESTE), the Special Program of Support for the Development of the
Semi-Arid Region of the Northeast (SERTANEJO), and the Special Program of
Support for Small Sugar Cane Growers (PROCANOR). The second approach was
concerned with alleviating the effects of drought. It included several
parallel programs, such as the Water Resources Use Program (PROHIDRO), the
Agricultural Research Program for the Semi-Arid Tropics and the Drought
Emergency Relief Program, as well as large federal public irrigation
projects.
2.09      Planning for a major new development initiative tegan in 1982,
stimulated by the recognition that the aggregate contribution of the first
two approaches in alleviating rural poverty and increasing agricultural
production had been limited. The new initiative is being implemented
through a series of sectoral projects in such areas as land tenure, federal
irrigation, health, education and integrated rural development. The
Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP), simpler in design than previous
efforts supported by the Bank, is a 15-year program which focuses on
eliminating key constraints (land tenure insecurity, drought vulnerability
and limited access to credit and use of modern technology) on small farm
development. It is based on a comprehensive regional policy framework,
multiyear state rural investment plans and the integration of all current
rural special programs. NRDP regional guidelines establish unified and
streamlined funding and administrative procedures and mechanisms for
increased beneficiary participation and improved institutional performance.



- 5.
Egperience with Past Bank Lending
2.10      The Bank has made 41 loans, totalling US$3,268.6 million, for
agricultural and rural development in Brazil. These Include one
agricultural credit and export loan for US$303.0 million; one credit and
marketing reform loan for US$500.0 million; supplemental financing for
US$30.5 million, under the Special Action Program; three loans for US$519.2
million for agroindustries; two for US$60.5 million for livestock; one for
US$18.2 million for grain storage; two for US$100 million for agricultural
research; two for US$255 million for agricultural extension; one for US$100
million for land tenure improvement; and 27, totalling US$1,382.2 million,
for various settlement, irrigation and rural development projects in the
Northeast,l/ in Minas Gerais, and in the North and Northwest.
2.11      Ten of the Bank-financed projects were POLONORDESTE rural
development projects located in eight Northeast states. Approved from 1976
to 1983, three of these projects are still being executed and the other
seven have been substantially completed. Implementation of all the
POLONORDESTE projects generally improved over the years, especially in
project planning and agency coordination. The combined Project Completion
Report for the Rio Grande do Norte and Sergipe Rural Development Projects
(Loans 1195 and 1714-BR) showed that, despite lower than expected rates of
return in both projects, adopting farmers' incomes increased
substantially. However, those two projects, similar to the others,
experienced implementation and disbursement delays mainly because of the
unusually severe 1979-83 drought, delays in providing local funds, limited
execution capacity for carrying out small-scale irrigation activities and
initial lags in the generation of drought-resistant technology for small
farmers. The Completion Report concluded that fundamental development
constraints, such as insecure land tenure, or uncertain water availability,
should receive priority treatment in future project design and investment.
These problems and priorities were addressed during the preparation of the
NRDP.
The State of Alagoas
2.12      Location and Natural Features.  With a total area of about
27,730 kmin, Alagoas, is the second smallest state in the Northeast. It is
bordered on the southeast by the Atlantic Ocean, on the southwest by the
Sao Francisco River and on the north by the State of Pernambuco (Map IBRD
20354). Average annual rainfall ranges from about 1,500 mm in the coastal
area (zona da mata) to about 700 to 900 mm in the agreste area, which
covers about two-thirds of the State's land area (Map IBRD 20397). The
wide range of soil types near the San Francisco River are fertile, whereas
latosol soils in the agreste area are generally less productive.
1/ A preliminary evaluation of impact is provided in the World Bank
Country Study, Brazil: An Interim Assessment of Rural Development
Programs for the Northeast, Washington, D.C., 1983.



2.13      Economic and Social Conditions.  The States population is nearly
1.9 million and is growing at an estimated annual rate of 2.2%. Population
density is 68 persons/km2, over double the average for the Northeast.
About 48% of the population lives in urban centers, of which Maceio, the
state capital, is the largest. Average per capita income in the rural
areas is below the relative poverty level of about US$330. Living
conditions for most of the population are still poor: infant mortality is
high, and access to treated water and sewerage facilities is limit'.1d.
2.14      Land Use, Tenure and Production.  Agricultural land comprises
about 2.4 million ha, of which 52% are suitable for annual or perennial
cropping, 35% for grazing land, and 13% for forest or bushland. Land
ownership is skewed: about 75% of all farms are less than 10 ha and account
for only 10% of the total fat.a area, whereas 3% of farms (those over 100
ha) occupy almost 62% of total agricultural land. Agricultural production
in Alagoas is dominated by sugarcane (65% of cultivated land) produced in
the zona da mata on large estates. Another important crop is tobacco,
which, together with subsistence crops of maize, beans, rice and cassava,
is mainly produced by small holders. Agricultural land in the agreste is
mainly used for extensive grazing.
Agricultural Services
2.15      Because of previous rural investments in Alagoas, there are a
number of agencies and a core of trained technicians with agricultural
development and project management experience. The State Foundation for
Agricultural Planning (CEPA-AL) linked to the Secretariat of Agriculture is
responsible for planning and coordination of all special rural programs in
the state and has already gained some experience through coordinating
federally-funded rural development programs. Land regularization and
redistribution are entrusted to the State Land Institute (ITERAL) which has
implemented land activities financed by the Inter-American Development
Bank. The State's Agricultural Research Company (EPEAL) is operating seven
experimental stations located throughout the state, however, with little or
no generation of new technology. Agricultural extension is provided with
mixed results by the State's Technical Assistance and Rural Extension
Company (EMATER-AL) through a network in the project area of three regional
and 49 local (municipal) offices. Successful extension has been hampered
by inadequate planning, supervision and training of local extension
agents. The State Company for the Development of Natural Resources (EDRN)
founded in 1979, has been mainly involved in well drilling, but also has
the technical capability for constructing communal water supply systems.
Three major public banks (the Bank of Brazil, the Bank of the Northeast of
Brazil and the State Bank of Alagoas) provide rural credit through a
generally adequate branch network. However, demand for official credit is
far greater than supply. The Federal Food Company (COBAL) is active in
food wholesaling and retailing in the urban area of Maceio. The State
Company for Agricultural Development (CIDAL) provides some input supply
throughout the State, but is generally not as efficient as the private
sector and some cooperatives. Public agricultural marketing is handled by
Alagoas State Marketing Organization (CEASA-AL).



- 7 -
2.16      R'lral Development in Alagoas.  The increase in rural
out-migrat    and the worsening situation in the agricultural sector during
the last decade have caused the Government to focus on the needs of small
farmers. Rural development activities in Alagoas started in 1976 with
federally-funded special programs such as POLONORDESTE and SERTANEJO
(para. 2.08). Achievements under these special programs were modest since
their implementation was hampered by chronic delays and shortages in
funding.
III. THE PROJECT
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Origin
3.01      The Bank's lending strategy in Brazil aims to promote and assist
structural reform, to develop and maintain essential infrastructure, and to
improve productivity and living conditions of the rural and urban poor.
The Government of Brazil attaches high priority to decreasing regional
disparities. Incomes in Northeast rural areas are less than 35% of the
national average. The NRDP, of which the proposed project is a part, forms
a central part of the Government'c investment strategy to narrow the gap
between the Northeast region and the rest of the country and to alleviate
rural poverty.
3.02      In August 1982, the Government asked the Bank to assist SUDENE in
preparing the NRDP, which is comprised of ten state projects and a regional
land tenure improvement project. In April 1985, as part of the program,
the Bank approved the Northeast Rural Development projects for the States
of Sergipe and Rio Grande do Norte (Loans 2523-BR and 2524-BR,
respectively). In addition to supporting the Sergipe Rural Development
Plan, the first project established the structural and operating procedures
for regional program planning, coordination and research to support all ten
Northeast state rural development plans. In June 1985, the Bank approved
the Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR) which
finances cadastral activities in all ten Northeastern states (Map IBRD
18686-R). The NRDP project for the State of Pernambuco was approved in
June 1986, and projects for the States of Bahia, Piaui and Ceara were
approved in October 1986. Projects for the three remaining States
(Maranhao, Minas Gerais and Paraiba) are being presented to the Executive
Directors simultaneously with this proposed project. While is is still
early on in the implementation of the NRDP, initial experiences,
particularly with respect to federal and regional management, counterpart
funding, and beneficiary participation, are encouraging.
3.03      The project was appraised by the Bank in December 1986, and
negotiations took place in Washington in April/May, 1987. The Brazilian
delegation was led by Ms. Stael Martins Baltar of the Federal Ministry of
Finance.
Project Area
3.04      The State selected three planning regions -  Agreste I, Agreste
II and Mata Norte - as priority areas for development (Map IBRD 20354).



- 8 -
These priority areas include 49 municipalities (of a total of 96 in the
state) and have a generally high concentration of small farmers with less
than 50 ha (86,200 farm families) and a potential for crop diversification
and increased livestock production. The selected priority areas also
coincide with those in which cadastral and land regularization operations
will be carried out under the Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement
Project.
Project Objectives and Description
3.05      The main objectives of the proposed project would be to:
(a) increase agricultural productivity and production in the center and
northeast region of the State of Alagoas; (b) generate employment
opportunities for low-income rural families; (c) promote water resource
development and technology generation aud diffusion to decrease small
farmers' vulnerability to recurring droughts; (d) increase   community
participation in all phases of the development process; and (e) strengthen
the State of Alagoas' capacity to provide efficient agricultural services
to small farmers. The project would directly benefit an estimated 32,400
small farm families farming less than 50 ha (100 ha in the eleven
municipalities in the driest areas). An estimated additional 7,600
families would also benefit from the community development component. The
project components are described briefly below (with, in parentheses, the
relative percentages of total project costs) and in Annex 1.
3.06      Water Resource Development (2%).  This component would consist of
the construction of 30 simple water supply systems with bore-holed wells,
17 small systems using hand-dug wells (pocos amazonas) and 120 systems
using surface water and cisterns for capturing rainwater. In addition, an
estimated 2,400 ha of private irrigation would be financed under the rural
itwestment credit component (para. 3.09). The water supply subcomponent
would benefit about 3,800 families. It is expected that tbis activfty
would be financed for the first two years only, as it would later be funded
by the Northeast Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project, currently under
preparation for possible Bank financing. Each simple water supply system
vauld include a deep or shallow well or surface source of water, pumping
equipment, a transmission line, a storage tank, laundry facilities and one
or more standpipes that would serve from 10 to 50 families.
3.07      Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production (6%).  Applied
research would be directed toward simple technology to make farming systems
more productive and resistant to possible drought and would include: (a)
three agroecological and natural resource studies to assist in future
research planning; (b) 180 short- and medium-term applied research trials
at experiment stations to improve existing production technology; (c) about
12 farm-level observation units to test and adapt integrated farm
production systems; (d) annual basic seed production from about 100
hectares of maize, beans, cotton, rice and sorghum to improve available
planting material; and (e) a breeding stock improvement program for goats.
EPEAL would develop its adaptive research program in cooperation with both
farmers and extension officers and evaluate both technical and economic
results from its farm-level observation units. The basic seeds produced by
EPEAL would be sold to cooperatives for multiplication and processing; they
would then be marketed through the cooperatives' existing network.



-9-
3.08      Rural Extension (26%).  The component would include:
(a) furniturea and office equipment for 11 EMATER-AL local offices;
(b) establishment and maintenance of annually up to 150 demonstration plots
on farmers' fields; (c) financing, on a declining basis, salaries and
related operating costs for about 180 agricultural and social extension
agents, about 30 subject-matter specialist and supervisory personnel, and
related 70 administrative staff; and (d) production of about 2.0 million
tree seedlings for fodder, fuelwood and fruit trees. EMATER-AL would,
through its farmer groups' visits and demonstration plots, encourage
adoption of simple, proven practices which would improve crop yields,
preserve soil fertility, expand the cultivated area and increase livestock
production. Specialists from the Federal Company for Technical Assistance
and Rural Extension (EMBRATER) would supervise EMATER-AL activities at
least once a month. Extensionists would closely cooperate with staff from
EPEAL in implementing the on-farm level observation units (para. 3.07).
During negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that
EMATER-AL and EPEAL would coordinate with the Secretariat of Agriculture to
ensure that their annual work programs meet the requirements of the Federal
Program for the Control of the Cotton Pest (para. 4.03 (a)).
3.09      Rural Investment Credit (40%).  The project would finance medium-
and long-term credit for on-farm investments for about 10,000 farmers (31%
of the 32,400 direct beneficiaries) including about 1,480 farmers for
irrigation. A greater number would receive short-term production credit
financed by participating banks (para 2.15). Farmers would contribute with
their labor to on-farm investments; however, because of farmers' limited
savings, financing would cover up to 100% of goods required for on-farm
investments, with a maximum repayment period of twelve years and a maximum
grace period of three years. Sugarcane plantations, irrigation schemes
larger than 4 ha, and automobiles would not be eligible. Financing would
not exceed ceilings established for the NRDP credit program in the Central
Bank's Manual for Rural Credit for individual farmers; farmers'
associations and cooperatives would also be eligible, provided that at
least 70X of their members are small farmers who would directly benefit
from the investments.
3.10      Recently, new official rural credit terms were established for
Northeast Brazil. Under those terms, the interest rate for rural
investment credit charged to Northeast farmers (excluding those cultivating
sugarcane, cocoa, rubber and coffee, who would be charged a higher rate)
would be 3% per annum, with full monetary correction, based on the monthly
variation of the value of National Treasury Bonds (Obrigacoes do Tesouro
National, OTNs). This compares with an interest rate of 6X per annum with
full monetary correction on official rural investment credit for all
farmers outside of the North and Northeast. To provide low-income small
farmers with a strong incentive to invest in the project's technical
packages, project beneficiaries would also have a portion of their first
investment loan rebated as a grant. The percentage of the grant would be:
50% for investment loans approved from March 1, 1987 to December 31, 1988;
40% for the period January 1, 1989 to December 31, 1989; and 30% from
January 1, 1990 onwards. The rebate would occur at the time the loan funds
were released to the farmer. While still providing a significant subsidy,



-10-
the new terms would have several advantages over previous NRDP credit
arrangements which resulted in large subsidies due to the partial or total
absence of monetary correction on the principal of the loan. Under the new
agreement, the total amount of subsidy would be known and budgeted in
advance as part of the annual tRDP allocation in the federal fiscal
budget. Also, the long-standing practice of providing credit subsidies
through the use of partial monetary correction would be eliminated, paving
the way for future improvements in the official rural credit system.
3.11      During negotiations, the Federal Government provided assurances
that: (a) the Central Bank and the other participating banks would carry
out this component in accordance with the lending terms and conditions
recently agreed with the Bank; (b) the Central Bank would provide
sufficient funds to the participating banks to carry out the project's
investment credit component; (c) each of the participating banks would
provide monthly information to SUDEN3 and CEPA-AL on investment credit
availability, demand and lending per bank agency; and (d) priority would be
given by the participating banks to allocations, from their own resources,
of short-term production credit to their agencies serving the project area
in amouats adequate to finance the working capital requirements of project
beneficiaries (para. 4.01 (a)).
3.12      Marketing Services (1%).  The marketing services component is
designed to increase farmers' knowledge of product grading, markets and
prices and improve the timely provision and marketing of agricultural
products. In order to achieve these objectives the project would finance:
(a) expansion of the State-run Agricultural Marketing Information System
(SIMA); and (b) provision of four mobile units for grading and
classification by four rural service centers. Ongoing crop-purchasing
schemes would continue with Government support.
3.13      Support to Small Rural Communities (14%).  In order to facilitate
community participation in the project and create job opportunities, the
project would (a) create a community development (CD) fund of about US$9.6
million to make grants for local subprojects; (b) purchase equipment; and
(c) finance recurrent costs and training of 18 local community development
agents. CEPA-AL would administer the fund and implement the component.
Farmers' groups would identify, plan and execute subprojects that would
finance economic activities (fish ponds, cottage industry), community
infrastructure (laundry facilities, small irrigation drainage schemes and
storage facilities), and related training for community leaders. Written
proposals explaining objectives, benefits, implementation methodology and
cost sharing would be subject to Municipal Councils' approval. During
negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that: (a) the CD
fund would be established and maintained under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) no funds would be released to beneficiary
groups prior to the signing of the agreement between CEPA-AL and the groups
or municipalities (in the case of unincorporated groups); and (c) not later
than March 31, 1989, CEPA-AL and the Bank would review economic subproject
performance to establish the feasibility of carrying out further funding of
subprojects on a loan basis (para. 4.03 (b)).



- 11 -
3.14      Project Administration and Trainig (11%).  CEPA-AL would be
responsible for administering, coordinating a    ntegrating all
federally-funded rural programs under the project. All project-related
training would also be centrally coordinated by CEPA-AL. The training
program would include management and technical training for executing
agency staff as well as training of farmers in all services under the
project. The project would strengthen CEPA's planning and administrative
capabilities by financing management consultancy for two years, salaries of
33 higher level and related support staff, travel expenses, office
equipment, training and other operating costs. The current administrative
organization of CEPA-AL would be restructured to better fit the management
needs of the proposed project. Strengthening of CEPA-AL would be a
condition of effectiveness (para. 4.04 (a)). During negotiations, the
State Government provided assurances that the satisfactory staffing of
CEPA-AL would be maintained (para. 4.03 (c)).
Land Tenure Improvement
3.15      Land tenure improvement, through provision of land titles or
formal usufruct rights to small farmers, is essential to the success of the
proposed project and would provide small farmers with access to
institutionalized investment credit. Land regularization and
redistribution in the 49 municipalities would result from the cadastral
activities initiated under the Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement
Project (Loan 2593-BR). Redistribution targets, procedures for land
acquisition, allotment, and beneficiary selection were agreed as conditions
for the regional land project. Land project implementation has been
delayed due to organizational changes within the National Institute for
Colonization and Agrarian Reform (IVCRA) and the Ministry of Agrarian
Reform and Development (MIRAD). The Bank, INCRA and other involved
ministries recently agreed on the measures needed to improve project
implementation. They agreed on implementation strategies, revised targets
based on a two-year loan extension to be approved one year at a time based
on satisfactory project performance, new management arrangements and
several amendments to the project's legal documents. However, basic
project objectives and overall targets did not change. The reaching of
these targets by 1990 would secure access to land and credit for those
project beneficiaries who are currently landless. The Government has
recently signed these legal amendments to the Northeast Region Land Tenure
Improvement Project, and project implementation is expected to accelerate
in the coming months. During negotiations, the Federal and State
Governments provided assurances that in the project area: (a) at least
36,600 ha would be available for redistribution to project beneficiaries by
March 31, 1989; and (b) at least an additional 30,700 ha would be available
by March 31, 1990 (para. 4.02 (a)).
Project Organization and Implementation
3.16      Federal and Regional Levels.  An Interministerial Commission
(IC), chalred by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Interior
(MINTER) and comprised of representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture,
Planning, Land Reform, Finance, and Irrigation and the Superintendent of
SUDENE, has overall policy planning responsibility for the NRDP. As
regional coordinator of the NRDP, SUDENE's Directorate for the Program of



- 12 -
Support to Small Farmers receives policy backing from a Regional Rural
Development Council (RDC), which meets once a month and includes
representatives of federal agencies, the ten Northeastern states, and
beneficiary groups.
3.17      State and Local Levels.  A State Rural Development Council
(SRDC), chaired by the Governor, with the Secretary of Planning as
Executive Secretary, and with Secretaries of Agriculture and Finance as
members would be created and would provide overall guidance for
project-supported rural development activities. A State Coordinating
Commission (SCC), chaired by the Secretary of Agriculture and composed of
the president of CEPA-AL and representatives of SUDENE and all executing
agencies, would ensure proper implementation of SRDC guidelines and
integration of project activities. Day-to-day project implementation would
be carried out by CEPA-AL, which has its own budget, salary structure and
administrative personnel procedures. The Bank has been provided with
evidence that the planning, budgeting, staffing and administration of all
current federallly-funded rural programs in Alagoas have been unified under
the coordination of CEPA-AL. Because the creation of SRDC is important for
project implementation, a condition of loan effectiveness would be the
creation of SRDC, chaired by the Governor (para. 4.04 (b)).
3.18      Annual Planning and Budgeting.  Targets and costs established at
appraisal would be adjusted annually during the eight-year implementation
Period. Once the Federal Government establishes overall funding
availability for the NRDP for the next year, state allocations would be
established by SUDENE in consultation with the RDC. CEPA-AL would
consolidate each executing agency's detailed annual operating plans, ensure
internal consistency and submit them for approval by SRDC and SUDENE.
SUDENE would consolidate state plans into a regional operating plan to be
presented to the RDC and the Interministerial Commission of the !.ortheast
(IC) as the basis for the portaria (administrative regulation) signed by
the various Ministers involved and legally establishing budget allocations
for each state. During negotiations the Federal Government provided
assurances that: (a) the regional operating plan would be sent each year to
the Bank for comment prior to approval; (b) the portaria, the final
regional operating plan and the Alagoas State operating plan would be sent
to the Bank not later than the first working day of each project fiscal
year; and (c) any proposed changes in planning and budgeting procedures
would be submitted to the Bank for comment prior to enactment (para. 4.01
(b)).
3.19      Accounts and Auditing.  Each participating agency, including the
Central Bank and the participating banks, would maintain separate accounts
for projen.t expenditures, to be audited annually by independent, private or
public auditors acceptable to the Bank. During negotiations, the Federal
and State Governments provided assurances that: (a) the Special Account,
the investment credit accounts, and the project accounts would be
maintained and audited annually according to practices satisfactory to the
Bank; (b) terms of reference for the auditors would include, inter alia,
verification of the Statements of Expenditure for the project accounts; and
(c) copies of the three audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within
six months of the close of each project fiscal year (para. 4.02 (b)).



- 14 -
procedures would be those described in para. 3.18. Funds would be
channelled from the Treasury through MINTER and SUDENE to a specific
project account in the State for activities executed by state agencies.
Monthly advances of Government counterpart funds would also be made through
the Central Bank to cover the estimated Bank share of monthly
expenditures. During negotiations, the Federal Government provided
assurances that the portaria (administrative regulation) establishing the
above funding procedures would not be changed without Bank approval (para.
4.01 (c)).
3.24      In August 1986 the Bank and the Government reached an agreement
which has improved the timeliness and adequacy of counterpart funds. This
agreement includes: (a) the provision in the annual Federal Budget of the
full amount required for the execution of all the Northeast Rural
Development projects; (b) the monthly release of these resources in
accordance with schedules and amounts agreed upon with the Bank; and
(c) the simplification of procedures for channeling the released funds to
the project executing units. As a result of this agreement, counterpart
funding has been, and continues to be, satisfactory.
Procurement
3.25      Civil works, estimated at US$1.9 million, would be executed by
contracts awarded through local competitive bidding procedures acceptable
to the Bank.  Brazil has a competitive local construction industry that is
capable of carrying out project works. As individual construction works
are small and dispersed, foreign contractors are not expected to be
interested but would not be excluded from bidding. Some community
development civil works would be carried out by the beneficiaries under
written agreements with CEPA-AL (para. 3.13). Equipment and materials
required by the project, estimated at US$0.7 million would be procured by
the several executing agencies at various locations over the project
implementation period, in accordance with local competitive bidding
procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank. Vehicles required by the
project (amounting to US$3.7 million) as reserved procurement items are not
included in the project costs and are not financed by the proposed loan.
During negotiations, the State Government would provide assurances that
vehicles would be procured in a timely manner (para 4.03 (e)). Civil works
contracts estimated to cost more than US$250,000 and goods and services
contracts for more than US$100,000 would be subject to prior Bank review of
procurement documentation (about 30% and 20X of the value of civil works
and goods and services, respectively). Management consultants' services
totalling some two man-years would be procured in accordance with Bank
guidelines. During negotiations the Federal and State Governments provided
assurances that they would follow the procurement arrangements outlined
above and summarized in the following table. (para. 4.02 (d)).



- 13 -
3.20      Operating Agreements.  Agreements among project coordinating and
executing agencies would be entered into between:- (a) the State, through
CEPA-AL, and the federal agencies; (b) executing agencies, with the
participation of CEPA-AL when more than one is involved in executing a
project component; and (c) the State, through CEPA-AL, and the concerned
municipality or group prior to implementing each community subproject.
These agreements would include execution guidelines and targets, reporting
requirements, procedures for inter-agency collaboration and funding
conditions linked to performance criteria. During negotiations the Federal
and State Governments provided assurances that they would enter into all
necessary agreements referred to in (a) and (b) above not later than six
months after loan signing (para. 4.02 (c)).
3.21      Monitoring and Evaluation.  Monitoring and evaluation
arrangements have simplified reporting requirements and would provide
accurate and timely information for project management and annual
planning. CEPA-AL would receive from executing agencies monthly reports
on key physical and financial indicators and would produce quarterly
consolidated monitoring summaries. During negotiations, the State
Government provided assurances that: (a) quarterly monitoring reports ,would
be sent to the Bank not later than three months after the end of the
respective fiscal quarter; and (b) terms of reference and institutional
arrangements for evaluations would be satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 4.03 (d)).
Project Cost
3.22      Total project costs are estimated at US$86.4 million, with a
direct and indirect foreign exchange component of US$9.2 million, or about
11% (see Loan and Project Summary).   The total cost is based on the
assumption that all goods and services would be acquired in Brazil, with
the exception of some specialized consultant services. The cost estimate
includes about US$1.9 million equivalent in applicable local taxes.
Physical and price contingencies are equivalent to 1% and 4% of baseline
costs, respectively. Physical contingencies were added to baseline costs
at 15% for water supply construction; 10% for other construction; and 5%
for equipment and furniture. Price contingencies are estimated in US
dollar terms, based on international inflation rates estimated at 3.0% for
1987, 1.0% for 1988 to 1990, and 3.5% p.a, thereafter. It was assumed that
periodic currency adjustments, estimated on a purchasing power parity
basis, would compensate for differences between projected US dollar
inflation and local inflation rates.
Financing Plan
3.23      The amount of the proposed Bank loan would be US$42.0 million
equivalent, which would represent 50% of total estimated cost, net of
taxes. The proposed loan would finance 100% of direct and indirect foreign
exchange costs and 43% of local costs. The loan would be repayable over 15
years, including 3 years of grace and would bear interest at the Bank's
standard variable rate. The loan would be made to the Federative Republic
of Brazil, which would carry the foreign exchange risk and provide
counterpart funds as necessary to complete the project. Budgeting



- 15 -
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Type of Project                           Procurement Method
_ Expenditure               LCB         Other     -.A.           rotal  os8t
Civil Works                1.9 (1.1)                               1.9  (1.1)
Equipment                  0.7 (0,3)                               0.7  (0.3)
Studies and Training                    1.9 (0.8)                  1.9  (0.8)
Rural Investment Credit                             34.4 (17.2)   34.4 (17.2)
Community Subprojects                                9.6  (6.7)    9.6  (6.7)
Salaries and Allowances                             30.3 (13.8)   30.3 (13.8)
Other Operating Expenses                             7.6  (2.1)    7.6  (2.1)
TOTAL                 2.6 (1.4)   1.9 (0.8)  81.9 (39.8)   86.4 (42.0)
Note:     Figures in parentheses are the estimated respective amounts to be
financed by the Bank.
Disbursements
3.26      The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed throughout
the eight-year disbursement period at a rate of 70% against project
expenditures made for water resource development and support to small
communities, and at a rate of 50% against expenditures made for credit and
marketing. Disbursements for the remaining components, which have a high
rate of recurrent costs, would be made at a rate of 50% of project
expenditures until aggregate amounts of US$1.38 million for agricultural
research, US$6.37 million for extension, US$2.17 million for adminlstration
and US$0.5 million for training have been disbursed. Thereafter,
disbursements for those categories would be made at a rate of 30% of
project expenditures. To enable project executing agencies to prepare for
an early start of project execution, project expenditures (except
agricultural credit) incurred prior to loan signing, but after December 18,
1986 (end of project appraisal), would be eligible for reimbursement up to
US$2.0 million equivalent. Disbursement projections reflect the
disbursement profile for previous rural development projects in Brazil.
3.27      Disbursements for all investment, operating and technical
assistance expenses under US$250,000 would be made under Statements of
Expenditure prepared by the various executing agencies and certified by the
CEPA-AL. Supporting documentation would not be submitted to the Bank but
would be made available during project supervision. Standard documentation
for contracts exceeding US$250,000 would be submitted to the Bank. To
reduce Government prefinancing requirements, a Special Account would be
opened and thereafter maintained in US dollars in the Central Bank with an
initial deposit of 2.0 million. Withdrawals in cruzados from the Special
Account, supported by Statements of Expendituresaind other required
documentation, would be made at the exchange rate that prevailed on the
date of expenditure.
Project Benefits and Justification
3.28      Production, Benefits and Farm Incomes.  The impact of the project
on agricultural production would result from increased productivity



- 16 -
(through better cultivation practices, including pest and disease control,
increased use of animal traction and irrigation), crop diversification and
expansion of cropped areas. The annual value of incremental marketable
production at full development is estimated to be US$27 million at
September 1986 farmgate prices. Approximately 80% of this amount would
come from crops and 20% from livestock products.   Incremental production
is not expected to lead to marketing constraints as Alagoas' present
production does not meet demand. Production surpluses would be marketed
through existing public and private channels. Improved water supply
systems and community activities would also provide substantial benefits to
the population, especially to women. Expanded agricultural activity would
create jobs equivalent to some 8,200 man-years annually. Improved farming
practices, soil and water conservation and planting of trees would have a
beneficial impact on the environment. The estimated financial rates of
return for the nine illustrative farm models range from 12% to 37%. All
project beneficiaries belong to the poverty group. Net annual farm
incomes, which taking into account supplemental incomes from off-farm work,
currently vary between US$100 and US$380 per capita would increase, at full
development, to a range between US$200 and US$940 in constant terms.
3.29      Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact.  The municipalities would cover
the costs of operation and maintenance of the water supply services until
the Northeast Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Program begins in 1989; at
that time, consumers would be expected to pay for the service. During
negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that drinking water
supply charges covering full operation and maintenance costs would be
charged to consumers in 1989 (para. 4.03 (f)).
3.30      Additional recurrent costs to the Government of about US$1.2
million to sustain the project following the investment period are expected
to be offset by additional fiscal revenues of about US$2.7 million
generated by the value added tax on product circulation (ICM) that would
apply to the incremental marketable production.
3.31      Economic Analysis.  The economic rate of return has been
estimated at 14%. The cost and benefit streams are detailed in Annex 3.
Sensitivity tests show that when project benefits fall by 19% or project
costs rise by over 24%, thie rate of return falls below the estimated 11%
opportunity cost of capital. A lag of three years in achieving project
benefits, such as might occur during a severe drought, would result in a
10% rate of return.
Project Risks
3.32      Although projects under NRDP are simpler in design than previous
rural development projects, efficient delivery.of project services and
interinscitutional cooperation would still be important for project
success. The project includes improved monitoring and evaluation to foster
a more efficient institutional environment. Delays and shortfalls in
counterpart funding and rural credit could decrease the proposed project's
impact. Recent changes in funding procedures, the merging of the rural
special programs, the regional scope of the Northeast Rural Development
Program, of which the project is a part, and the broad support which the



- 17 -
program enjoys among Government and local leaders should help the project
receive adequate funding. At the farm level, the security of land tenure
is still a problem; implementation of the Northeast Region Land Tenure
Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR) and of the Government's agrarian reform
should help minimize this risk. Many farmers are dependent on cotton as a
main cash crop and as such are vulnerable to pest outbreaks. The project
has been designed to minimize this risk by increasing the focus on crop
diversification through technology generation and diffusion and
water-resource development.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01      During negotiations, the Federal Government provided assurances
that:
(a)  for rural credit: (i) lending terms and conditions would be those
recently agreed between the Bank and the Government; (ii) the
Central Bank would provide sufficient funds to the participating
banks to carry out the project's investment credit component;
(iii) each of the participating banks would provide monthly
information to SUDENE and CEPA-AL on investment credit
availability, demand and lending per bank agency; and (iv)
priority would be given by the participating banks to allocations
from their own resources of short-term production credit to their
agencies serving the project area in amounts adequate to finance
the working capital requirements of project beneficiaries (para.
3.11);
(b)  (i) the regional operating plan would be sent each year to the
Bank for comment prior to approval; (ii) the portaria, the final
regional operating plan and the State of Alagoas' operating plan
would be submitted to the Bank not later than the first working
day of each project fiscal year; and (iii) any proposed changes
in planning and budgeting procedures would be submitted to the
the Bank for comment prior to enactment (para. 3.18); and
(c)  the administrative regulation establishing the current funding
procedures would not be changed without Bank approval
(para. 3.23).
4.02      During negotiations, both the Federal and State Governments
provided assurances that:
(a)  at least 36,600 ha by March 31, 1989, and an additional 30,700 ha
by March 31, 1990, would be available for redistribution to
project beneficiaries in the project area (para. 3.15);
(b) (i) the Special Account, the investment credit accounts, and the
project accounts would be maintained and audited annually
according to practices satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) the terms
of reference for the auditors would include inter alia,



- 18 -
verification of the Statements of Expenditure for the project
accounts; and (iii) copies of the three audit reports would be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each
fiscal year (para. 3.19);
(c)  all necessary operating agreements would be entered into no later
than six months after loan signature (para. 3.20); and
(d)  procurement procedures would be as specified in para. 3.25.
4.03      During negotiations, the State Government provided assurances
that:
(a)  EMATER-AL and EPEAL would coordinate with the Secretariat of
Agriculture to ensure that their annual work programs meet the
requirements of the Federal Program for the Control of the Cotton
Pest (para. 3.08);
(b) (i) the community development fund would be established and
maintained under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii) no funds would be released to beneficiary groups prior to
the signing of an agreement between CEPA-AL and the groups or
municipalities (in the case of unicorporated groups); and
(Wii) not later than March 31, 1989, the Bank and CEPA-AL would
review performance of the grants for the economic subprojects to
establish the feasibility of further community fund operations on
a loan basis (para. 3.13);
(c)  the satisfactory staffing of CEPA-AL would be maintained
(para. 3.14);
(d)  (i) quarterly monitoring reports would be sent to the Bank not
later than three months after the end of the respective fiscal
quarter; and (ii) terms of reference and institutional
arrangements for evaluations would be satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 3.21);
(e)  the vehicles necessary for project implementation would be
procured in a timely manner (para. 3.25); and
(f)  drinking water supply charges covering full operation and
maintenance costs would begin to be charged to consumers in 1989
(para. 3.29).
4.04      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be:
(a)  the satisfactory strengthening of CEPA-AL (para. 3.14); and
(b)  the creation of the State Rural Development Council, chaired by
the Governor (para. 3.17).



- 19 -
4.05      Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for a Bauk loan of US$42.0 million equivalent
with a term of 15 years, including a 3-year grace period.
May 26, 1987



- 20-                     ANNEX 1
Page 1 of6
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - ALAGOAS
Project Description and Detailed Features
A. Land tenure and Agricultural Production
1.        About 75% of Alagoas' 120,000 farms are smaller than 10 ha, but
they account for only 10% of the total farm area. About 3% of farms (those
over 100 ha) occupy almost 62% of total agricultural land. Furthermore,
about 60% of the small farms (less than 50 ha) are worked by farmers
without legal title to their land. More than half of these producers work
on rainfed farms that are smaller than 10 ha; they are, however,
responsible for approximately 60% of the State's basic food production
(Table 1).
2.        Alagoas has an overall deficit of basic food crops and livestock
products, such as beans, cassava, maize and meat and milk. It is a net
exporter of sugar, cotton, coconut and tobacco. Agricultural prod-.:tion in
Alagoas is dominated by sugarcane (65% of cultivated land) concentrated
along the coast line in the Zona de Mata (Table 1.2).
B. Project Area
3.        The State selected three planning regions -  namely, Agreste I,
Agreste II and Mata Norte - as high priority areas for development
Table 1.3). These priority areas include 49 municipalities (of a total of
96 in the state) and have a generally high concentration of small farmers
(86,200 farm families with less than 50 ha) and a potential for crop
diversification and increased livestock production. The selected priority
areas (IBRD Map 20354) also coincide with the areas where cadastral and
land regularization operations will be carried out under the Northeast
Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR) (Table 1.4 of this
annex).
C. Detailed Features of Project Components
Water Resource Development
4.        The water supply subcomponent would consist of the construction
of: 30 simple water supply systems with bore-holed wells, 17 small systems
using hand-dug wells (Pocos amazonas) and 120 systems using surface water
and cisterns for capturing rainwater. The water supply subcomponent would
benefit about 3,800 families. It is expected to be financed for the first
two years only as this action would later be funded by the Bank-financed
Northeast Rura1 Water Supply and Sanitation Project which is currently
under preparation. Each simple water supply system would include a deep or
shallow well or surface source of water, pumping equipment, a transmission



ANNEX I
- 21 -                    Page 2 of 6
line, a storage tank, laundry facilities and one or more standpipes that
would serve from 10 to 50 families. Water supply systems would be designed
for an average flow of 30 liters per capita per day; the per capita
investment cost of new systems are estimated to vary from US$20 (for the
hand-dug wells) to US$25 (for the bore-holed wells).
5.        EDRN would be responsible for the implementation of the
subcomponent, including planning, civil works, supervision and monitoring.
The construction of the water supply systems would be executed by the
implementing agency itself or by small contractors under the supervision of
EDRN. Selection criteria would include village size, per capita investment
costs, location (preference would be given to areas where population
density is highest) and community willingness to gradually assume
responsibility for operation and maintenance. During a transition period
until the regional water supply and sanitation program becomes effective,
the municipalities and the state would assist the communities in meeting
operating expenses. EDRN would discuss the location of the wells and
standpipes with the recipients and the municipal authorities before
installation of the systems; it would also provide technical backstopping
and training to the community.
M&ricultural Research and Basic Seed Production
6.        The state research program has developed during the past ten
years and will continue to develop technical recommendations to improve
agricultural productivity. However, there is a recognized need to redirect
the research program towards improved adaptation of low-cost technology,
prophylactic programs (for cotton in particular) and crop diversification
to make small farmers more resistant to drought cycles. The project would
finance four specific activities: (a) three natural resource studies to be
completed within the first three years of the project to assist in future
research planning; (b) about 180 applied research trials to be carried out
at experiment stations to improve production technology; (c) installation
of about 12 farm-level observation units to test improved technology using
farmer participation; and (d) basic seed production (cotton, maize, beans,
rice and sorghum) from about 100 ha annually, and production and
distribution of improved breeding goats.
7.        The implementing agency would be the State Agricultural Research
Company (EPEAL). Technical supervision, training, coordination with
research programs in other states and review of annual plans would be the
responsibility of the Federal Center of Agricultural Research for the
Semi-Arid Tropics (CPATSA), which is receiving support for these activities
under the First Northeast Rural Development Project (Loan 2523-BR). EPEAL
would develop the research in cooperation with both farmers and extension
officers and appraise both technical and economic results from farm-level
observation units. Cooperating farmers who have observation units on their
farms would contribute to the investments (mostly in the form of labor).
Once the results of these observation units have been proven, they would be
diffused among farmers through demonstration plots under the aegis of
EMATER-AL. The project would finance investment costs for sheds,
agricultural equipment and recurrent costs. The basic seed produced would
be sold to cooperatives for multiplication. The improved seeds would be
processed by the State Company for Agricultural Development - Alagoas



ANNEX I
- 22 -                     Page 3 of 6
(CIDAL) and marketed through their existing network or through
cooperatives.
Rural Extension
8.        EMATER-AL is already providing technical assistance to some
12,000 (out of a total target group of 86,300) small farmers in the project
area. Under the proposed project, the extension service would be expanded
to reach about 32,400 farm families at full development. This would
represent about 30% of the small farmers. The project would finance:
(a) equipment and office supplies for 11 local offices; (b) establishment
and maintenance of up to about 150 demonstration plots on farmers fields
annually; (c) recurrent costs for 180 agricultural and social extension
agents (two agricultural agents for every social extension agent), 33
subject-matter specialists and supervisory personnel and about 65
administrative staff; (d) the production of about two million seedlings of
algaroba, sabia and fruit trees to plant about 2,500 ha; and
(e) project-related equipment, training and operating costs.
9.        EMATER-AL field staff is organized into one head office in
Maceio, 3 regional offices and 49 local offices. Most supervisory
personnel and subject-matter specialists are located in regional offices
(or in Maceio) and wouled travel 50% of the time to supervise local
extension agents. The State is relatively small, and with good road
infrastructure most places can be reached from Maceio within two to three
hours. At field level, each extension agent would assist on a fixed
schedule six to eight groups of 25-30 farmers organized around contact
farmers and demonstration plots. The ratio of extension agents to farm
families would decline from 1:120 in Year 1 to 1:272 by Year 8. Social
extension workers, cooperating in teams with agricultural extensionists,
would work with farm families to improve sanitation, child care, family
nutrition, small animal husbandry and vegetable gardening. Specialists
from the Brazilian Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company
(EMBRATER) would supervise EMATER-AL at least once a month. In-service
training for extension staff would include assistance from EPEAL and
EMBRAPA through CPATSA.
10.       Extension activities would encourage adoption of simple, low-cost
practices that would improve crop yields, preserve soil fertility, expand
the cultivated area and increase livestock production. Many practices to
reach these objectives are already proven, such as: (a) increased use of
animal traction to improve land preparation and labor productivity; (b)
increased use of improved seeds; (c) contour ploughing and more appropriate
crop rotations to improve water and soil conservation; (d) improved weed,
and pest and disease control (particularly cotton); (e) increased use of
drought-resistant and perennial crops; (f) improved animal husbandry; and
(g) improved pastures and cultivated forage crops.
11.       Agricultural extension agents would also be responsible for the
implementation of the forestry activities aimed at producing some two
million seedlings for farmers to plant for fuelwood, fodder and fruit
trees. Small nurseries would be installed at village and farm level.
EMATER-AL technical staff would be specifically trained in seedling
production, distribution, and wood lot management.



- 23 -                     ANNX I
Page 4 of 6
Rural Investment Credit
12.       The project would finance medium- and long-term credit for
on-farm investments for about 10,000 farmers (31% of the 32,400 direct
beneficiaries) including about 1,480 farmers with irrigation. A greater
number would receive short-term production credit financed by participating
banks (para 2.15). Farmers would contribute with their labor to on-farm
investments; however, because of farmers' limited savings, financing would
cover up to 100% of goods required for on-farm investments, with a maximum
repayment period of twelve years and a maximum grace period of three
years. Sugarcane plantations, irrigation schemes larger than 4 ha, and
automobiles would not be eligible. Financing would not exceed ceilings
established for the NRDP credit program in the Central Bank's Manual for
Rural Credit for individual farmers, farmer associations andt cooperatives
would also be eligible, provided that at least 70% of their members are
small farmers who would directly benefit from the investments. Details on
on-lending terms and conditions are outlined in paras. 3.10 and 3.11.
Marketing Services
13.       The marketing component is designed to increase farmers'
knowledge of markets and prices, and to assist in improving the timely
provision of agricultural Inputs. A Marketing Fund grouping ongoing
Government scheme, such as the Minimum Price Scheme (CEP) and the Advance
Purchase of Farmers' Surpluses (CAP), would be established parallel to the
project and without Bank financing.
14.       The Marketing Information Service (SIMA).  The service would be
implemented by CEASA. It provides farmers with timely advice on local and
regional prices, storage facilities, transport, and selling options. The
project would finance the operation and maintenance of two SIMA agencies in
Palmeira doe Indios and Santana de Ipanema. Each office would have two
marketing technicians and a clerk. Data would be collected at markets and
disseminated by radio and printed bulletin.
15.       Grading Equipment.  The project would finance four mobile units
(three in Year 1 and one in Year 2) each consisting of one vehicle and
equipment to develop a crop classification and grading system for small
farmers' production. The headquarters of the four mobile units would be
Palmeira dos Indios, Santana de Ipanema, Arapiraca and Agua Branca. CIDAL
would be responsible for the operation.
16.       Seed Production.  Production and distribution of certified seed
would be handled by CIDAL once the basic seed is produced by EPEAL through
the existing seed plant and put at the disposal of CIDAL. CIDAL would
select a number of farmers who would be in charge of seed multiplication
under supervision of the State Secretariat of Agriculture. Certified seed
would be so14 by farmers in the multiplication scheme back to CIDAL which
would pay the minimum Government established price plus a 15% bonus. CIDAL
would be responsible for the transport of seed to the processing plant and
after processing, packing and transport to its own stores for distribution
to its shops or to cooperatives. Details of the operational procedures
would require the signing of a formal agreement between EPEAL, CIDAL,
EMATER, participating farmers and the Secretariat of Agriculture no later
than six months after Loan Signature.



- 24 -                      ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6
17.       Marketing Fund.  The marketing fund would be entirely financed by
the Government parallel to the project and would include:
(a) the advance purchase of farmers' surpluses (CAP) program (about
US$0.8 million) for about 3,500 producers, or 10% of the project
beneficiaries, to be executed under the responsibility of the
cooperatives in the project area.
(b) the minimum price scheme (CEP) program (about US$2.2 million) for
about 10,000 farmers, to be executed under the responsibility of
CIDAL together with a number of cooperatives.
18.       Training.  Under the guidance of CEPA-AL training courses for
extension agents would be organized. The courses would include product
marketing systems, marketing margins, product classification, market
preferences, processing, handling and crop storage.
Support to Small Rural Communities (SSRC)
19.       The objectives of the SSRC component is to help formal and
informal groups of farmers participate in their own development by: (a)
providing them with a system whereby they select, plan, implement, manage
and monitor local development projects suited to their own needs; (b)
safeguarding their own interests through group representation; and (c)
enabling them to improve their economic base through organizing joint
resources for increased production. In order to carry out these
objectives, the component would include: (a) creation of a community grant
fund of US$9.6 million to finance local development projects; (b) purchase
of equipment; and (c) training and recurrent costs for about 18 community
development agents (including 15 field staff). Most of the 32,000 project
beneficiaries would benefit directly as a result of the local development
projects (LDP).
20.       The community development (CD) fund would finance three
categories of LDPs: (a) economically based LDPs (representing in total at
least 60% of the fund) such as cottage industries, building of fish ponds
and small animal production schemes; (b) community infrastructural LDPs
(representing at least 25% of the fund), such as construction of communal
laundry facilities, small irrigation and drainage schemes, and repair of
small access roads; and (c) community organization LDPs (representing not
more than 15% of the fund), such training group leaders and giving legal
assistance for land tenure matters. Guidelines have been established to
help select LDPs:
(a) LDPs would be submitted in writing to Municipal Councils and
would include objectives, justification, expected benefits,
method of implementation, cost sharing (groups would participate
with about 15% of cost) and monitoring and evaluation;
(b) the fund would not finance subprojects funded by other project
components nor the construction of schools, health posts, roads
or rural electrification;



ANNEX I
-25 -                         Page 6of6
(c) the fund would not finance recurrent costs of LDPs; and
(d) the group would be solely responsible for the management and
administration of the LDPs that should attempt to benefit the
community and eventually become self-sustaining.
21.       CEPA-AL would be responsible for the implementation of the
SSRC component. It would recruit, mainly from within its own staff, 18
full-time CD agents who would be university graduates, of which three would
be retained at the central level. These agents, each one covering three
municipalities, would stimulate community organization and assist in the
formulation of group requests for LDPs. Group requests would then be
submitted to Municipal Councils for discussion, analysis, evaluation and
approval. Municipal Council members would be elected by the villages and
each village would send two representatives to the Council. The relevant
CD agent and regional coordinators from CEPA-AL and EMATER-AL would also
participate in the analysis and evaluation of group requests. CEPA-AL
could reverse the Municipal Council recommendation if it does not conform
with the stated guidelines, or postpone funding if funds have been
exhausted for the current fiscal year.
22.       Disbursements would be made by installments and progress in
implementation would be supervised by the CD agent. In the case of a
legally registered association or group, disbursements would be made
directly to the group through a bank account. In the case of an
unincorporated group, the agreement would be signed by the municipality on
behalf of the group, and funds would be channelled through the
municipality. At present all funds would be disbursed on a grant basis;
but by March 31, 1989, CEPA-AL and the Bank would review the experience to
date on the economically based LDPs to study the possibility of carrying
out further CD fund operations on a loan basis.
23.       Monitoring and evaluation of the LDCs would be extremely
important to both the groups themselves and the development of the SSRC
component itself. During the preparation of a group request, the CD agent
and the group would determine the procedures required for participatory
monitoring and evaluation.



- 26 -
Am I
tsrAM  NL OMMORM  PElur - AL4
St e  of wa             In the Ptolct kA
-  ST.~~~~~                 AR3  t 000 is)                              F-ADS 
-  I    -A     n  m                ML   A     I                U  t 1    LMM
Ls thn 10 to             53.4          126.6     19.8    199.8      22,530      42,621       6,981   72,132
10-5)                    55.9         223.0      27.8    306.7      2,718       10,109       1,334   14,161
5D-100                   23.9          121.5      16.6    162.0       343        1,730         238    2,311
Mre tbh  100 ba          66.9          453.2      94.8    614.9       233        1,506         30B    2047
TWta1                   20.1           924.3     159.0  1,283.4     25,824      55,966       8,861   90,651
swrce: F        ms 1980.



- 27 -
Table 1.2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DamLOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMRNT PROJECT - ALAGOAS
Evolution of State Agricultural Production
Major Crops 1974 end 1984
Average 1973-1974                        Average 1983-1984
Area a/    Yield        Productlon      Area 17   Yield       Production
Crop                ('000 haT     (to/ha)    ('000 tons)   ('000 haT    (to/ha)   ('000 tons)
Sugarcane             188.3        46.4       8,737.1         443.1        48.9       21,667.6
Beans                 136.1         0.5          68.6          79.7         0.4            33.3
Maize                 126.4         0.5          64.9           46.3        0.5            22.4
Cassava (Roots)        52.6        10.2         536.5           17.3        9.2           159.2
Cotton (Seed)         110.5         0.3          32.4          52.2         0.3            13.5
Rice (Paddy)           13.4         2.2          29.3           5.9         2.1            12.4
Bananas                 2.5        21.9          54.7           8.2        17.1           140.0
Coconuts               23.8         4.4         104.9          21.9         4.7           103.8
Tobacco (Leaves)       25.5         0.9          23.5          31.6         9.7            30.7
Pineapples              0.7        13.4           9.3           0.5        13.6             6.8
I/ Harvested.



- 28 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1.3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - ALAGOAS
Project Priority Areas and Beneficiary Distribution
Rural        Estimated No.
Planning                  No. of           Land      Families         No. of
Region                Municipalities       Area     (0-50 ha)      Beneficiaries
(sq. km.)
Agreste I                    10            2,447      25,200            7,500
Agreste rI                  31            11,185      52,700          22,500
Mata Norte                   8             1,373       8,300            2,400
Total
Project Area                49            15,005      86,200          32,400
State of Alagoas            96            27,731     120,000



- 29 -                      ANNEX 1
Table 1.4
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT ALAGOAS
List of Municipalties in the Project Area
According to Planning Regions
Agreste I                                   Agreste II
1 Arapiraca                                21 Ouro Branco*
2 Campo Grande                             22 Palestina*
3 Coite do Noia                            23 Palmeira dos Indios
4 Craibas                                  24 Pao de Acucar*
5 Feira Grande                             25 Piranhas*
6 Girau do Ponciano                        26 Poco das Trincheiras
7 Igaci                                    27 Quebrangulo
8 Lagoa da Canoa                           28 Santana do Ipanema
9 Limoeiro de Anadia                       29 Sao Jose da Tapera
10 Taquarana                                30 Senador Rui Palmeira
31 Traipu
Agreste II
Mata Norte
1 Agua Branca*
2 Batalha                                   1 Belem
3 Belo Monte*                               2 Cha Preta
4 Cacimbinhas                               3 Mar Vermnelho
5 Canapi*                                   4 Paulo Jacinto
6 Carneiros                                 5 Santana do Mundau
7 Delmiro Gouveia*                          6 Tanque D'Arca
8 Dois Riachos                              7 Uniao dos Palmares
9 Inhapi*                                   8 Vicosa
10 Jacare dos Homens
11 Jaramatala
12 Major Isidoro
13 Maravilha
14 Mata Grande*
15 Minador do Negrao
16 Monteiropolis
17 Olho d'agua do Casado*
18 Olho d'agua das Flores
19 Olho d'agua Grande
Z0 Olivenca
*Municipalities where farmers with farms up to 100 ha would be eligible as
project beneficiaries.



- 30 -
A'    X  I
Table 1.5
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPHENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - ALAGOAS
Annual Cost Phasinag of Project Activities
Total$ Sme   ii,     It
a. 3*11611 IISOtCS KVt1t1ttU
............................. .. .                                       . .. . .   .. . ..   . . .. .   . .. . .. . .. .. . .. . .. .   . .. .
sub  nelt imiii  6_t                                                 831.2     ol.8           -         -         --                                     .0
hloSa*t 16186 1161951 WWIIUU                                            631. 2     59.8*-                             .          -                      is...t 
*. aptCustom    stOIa
....................
@13imtiu1  ? Wttl6tw                                                  681.9     301.9      292. 1    201.6     351.1      2tt.9     214 8     277.   2. 10. 8
onr us,. o       u nou st                                             306.9     20t.6      114.9     223.6     244.6      236.?     244.1     253.1  1.083.7
S1116 tt1t11  PI0 sII                                                  30.1 i    Ii.       M17        12.1       13.2      10.9         -                89.1
*S&IC    icuittttat $1119111ts                                        M.2       121.2      62.5          -                    -                   -    429.
..... ......... ... ...... ... .. .........  --- .................. ........ ....... ........ ....... -------- ......... ....
Wtetal MIt ttwl            Kno0                                        1.241.2     646.6     581.1      533.3     608,      5t.5      531.7      3t -I  1,1J3.6
C.  _61 111185106
IIIN51 111111W                                                     23153.13  2,402.4    . 482.0   2 2. 2   2. 71. p   3.012.1  3S. 13.   3,260.9 22. 153. 5
5ttt1t  ost"11t                                                        it.?      64.0      64.6       32.6      44.3      45.8       46.1      44.3    356 1
So.-8total 6 A   tt111116                                             2.35.J   2.466.4   2.548.6   2.651.6   2,021.3   3.018S   3, It.4   3,301.2 22.51I.6
tl611ltt11l16i 1111116 6                                              40.0       31.9      36.3      3A6.        39       40.1       42.3      43.8    321.4
1191 5MY 1lm                                                           8.3        3.1                              -         -          -         -     11.4
cl "$I  tttelkl                                                  _ ...... ..... .............              ......    ......     ......    ...... ..__._._._.
48.3      41.0      J3.3       38.7      31.5       40.9      42.3      43.6    332.8
Je1t4o6  16111111                                                     2.46 .J   4,01lt5   4.785.'    8 t 511. 4   1,019.4   4355. 2   3.  2. 5  460.6 34.396. 1
t. N1M0lO67t7561 6e t      CO4U13tfS 646O.3   6.06.4   1.2%84   1. 6". I   1.,01.4   l.171.8   t. 20.I   1,.0 12.419.3
1.SM  t     ot $Mltl4 "M   1tGtl   "ttZl
0. PIOdIC?N  I06Illation. IWNITOSIISG M  111119816
.......................................181.5                  166.6     194.3      603.6     812.?     831.9      861.3     904.4  6,116.6I
N1CIOIt1*                                                            148.7      t40. 5    18.4        118 9    182.9     189.3      195.9     202.   1  428.4
Sb-lotal NOJICT COUISIIL 6.         t1061160 M  Iv6g&ttMl               919. 6    922.4      960.7     962.4      995.2   t.021.3   1.083.2   I. 101.2  1,91.H5
- *1     3..56.. 0                                                             321. 4     328.     298.8      215.2      18t.4     130.9       14.2  1.923.2
Sib-tot*l 7681116                                                       356 0     321.4      328.3     229.8     285.2    t1864       t30.9       14.2  1.923,2
t1.6612.8  10.330.6  10,4NI.5  t3061.O 5  13. S7. 0  10. 9609. 5  6.0681.9   1. 451.4 U. 437. 0
......... ............... ..... ......... .................. .................................. ................ .......... .... ...... ..
........ ........... .............           ......         .
6 h81t dltS: to::*:



-31-                          ANNEX 1
Table 1.6
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - ALAGOAS
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(US$ million)
Bank Year        Quarter    Disbursed During         Cumulative        Balance
Fiscal         Ending           Quarter          Disbursement        of Loan
Amount    Z of Total
1988     Sept. 30, 1987            -            -                      42.0
Dec. 31, 1987           2.0 1/       2.0          4          40.0
March 31, 1988          0.7          2.7                     39.3
June 30, 1988           0.7          3.4          8          38.6
1989     Sept. 30, 1988           0.6          4.0                     38.0
Dec. 31, 1988           0.6          4.6          11         37.4
March 31, 1989           1.0         5.6                     36.4
June 30, 1989            1.1         6.7          16         35.3
1990     Sept 30, 1989            1.2          7.9                     34.1
Dec. 31, 1989           1.3          9.2          22         32.8
March 31, 1990           1.7        10.9                     31.1
June 30, 1990            1.7        12.6          30         29.4
1991     Sept. 30, 1990           1.5         14.1                     27.9
Dec. 31, 1990            1.4        15.5          37         26.5
March 31, 1991           1.7        17.2                     24.8
June 30, 1991            1.7        18.9          45         23.1
1992     Sept. 30, 1991           1.7         20.6                     21.4
Dec. 31, 1991           1.7         22.3          53         19.7
March 31, 1992           1.8        24.1                     17.9
June 30, 1992            1.9        26.0          62         16.0
1993     Sept. 30, 1992           1.9         27.9                     14.1
Dec. 31, 1992           1.9         29.8          71         12.2
March 31, 1993          1.5         31.3                     10.7
June 30, 1993            1.5        32.8          78          9.2
1994     Sept. 30, 1993           1.1         33.9                      8.1
Dec. 31, 1993           1.0         34.9          83          7.1
March 31, 1994           1.1        36.0                      6.0
June 30, 1994           1.0         37.0          88          5.0
1995     Sept. 30, 1994           1.0         38.0                      4.0
Dec. 31, 1994           1.0         39.0          93          3.0
March 31, 1995          0.7         39.7                      2.3
June 30, 1995           0.7         40.4          96          1.6
1996     Sept. 30,.1995           0.6         41.0                      1.0
Dec. 31, 1995           0.6         41.6          99          0.4
March 31, 1996          0.4         42.0         100         -
1 Initial depoost of US$2.0 dillion into the Special Account.



ANNEX 1
- 32 -                       Table 1.7
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - ALAGOAS
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Categorv                Item                                           Amount
(US$)
(1)        Water Resources Development                               900,000
70% of expenditure.
(2)        Agricultural Research                                   1,800,000
50% of expenditure up to an aggregate
disbursement under this category of US$1.38
million and 30% thereafter.
(3)        Rural Extension                                        8*200,000
50% of expenditure up to an aggregate
disbursement under this category of US$6.37
million and 30% thereafter.
(4)        Credit                                                15,500,000
50% of expenditure.
(5)        Marketing                                                 140,000
50% of expenditure.
(6)        Support to small communities                           7,700,000
70% of expenditure.
(7)        Administration                                         2,900,000
50% of expenditure up to an aggregate disbursement
under this category of US$2.17 million and 30%
thereafter.
(8)        Training                                                 660,000
50% of expenditures up to an aggregate disbursement
under this category of US$500,000 and 30% thereafter.
(9)        Unallocated.                                           4,200,000
42,000,000



-33-                             ANNEX I
Table 1.8
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - ALAGOAS
Financlna Plan
-Cin '000 us$)
Amounts to be Financed by
Government     Government
and IBRD        Only 1/      TOTAL
A. Water Resources Development
Domestic Water Supply                     1,689           26       1,715
B. Agricultural Research
Generation of Technology                  2,761          451       3,212
Diffusion of Technology                   1,894          202       2,096
Basic Seed Production                        89          149         238
Basic Agricultural Studies                  430           90         520
Subtotal (B)                       5,174         iii        6,066
C. Rural Extension
Rural Extension                          22,154        2,732      24,886
Social Forestry                             358          -           358
Subtotal (C)                     22,512        2,732       25,244
D. Marketing
Marketing Information                       322           11         333
Classification                               11           55          66
Input Supply incr. working capital          -         3,800        3,800
Incr. Mark. Fund  (CAP/CEP)                 -         3,020        3,020
Subtotal (D)                         333       6,886        7,219
E.  Rural Investment Credit                        34,398                    34,398
F. Support to Small Rural Comm.
Community Fund                            9,591                    9,591
Fund Administration                       2 820         226        3.046
Subtotal (F)                     12 41           226       12,637
G.  ProJect Coordination, H. & E.
Headquarters                              6,571          238       6,809
Regions                                   1,426          113       1.539
Subtotal (G)                      7,997          351        8,348
H.  Training                                         1,923          -         1923
TOTAL                                        86,437        11,113     97,550
I/ Excluding seasonal credit.



34-                    ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - ALAGOAS
Project Organization and Management
A. Institutional Aspects
Federal and Regional Levels
1.        An Interministerial Commission (IC) for the Northeast aural
Development Program (NRDP), chaired by the Secretary-General of -he
Ministry of Interior, and comprised of representatives from the Ministries
of Finance, Planning, Land Reform and Agriculture and the Superintendent of
SUDENE, has overall policy and planning responsibility for the NRDP. The
Director for the Program of Support to Small Farmers within SUDENE would be
the regional coordinator of the NRDP of which the proposed project
is a part. The Directorate would receive policy backing for its work
through the Regional Rural Development Council (RDC) linked to SUDENE's
Deliberative Council, which includes all of the Northeast State Governors.
The RDC would consist of the Superintendent of SUDENE, senior management of
the Directorate, representatives of the involved federal Ministries and
banks and the Northeast State Secretaries responsible for program
State and Local Levels
2.        The State Rural Development Council (SRDC) chaired by the
Governor with the Secretary of Planning as Executive Secretary and the
Secretaries of Agriculture and Finance as members would provide overall
guidance for rural development activities in the State. A State
Coordinating Commission (SCC), chaired by the Secretary of Agriculture and
composed of the president of CEPA-AL and representatives of all executing
agencies operating within the project, would ensure proper implementation
of SRDC guidelines and integration of project activities. The SRDC would
meet monthly to plan, supervise and evaluate the implementation of the
annual work plans to ensure their compatibility with overall project goals
and methodology.
3.        CEPA-AL, a foundation with its own budget, salary structure and
personnel administration procedures, located within the Secretariat of
Agriculture, would be the agency responsible for administering and
coordinating all federally-funded rural programs and for fully integrating
them under the project. It would be responsible for: (a) consolidating
annual operating plans drafted by the executing agencies (Table 2.1); (b)
supervising project performance and advising the SRDC on institutional or
technical difficulties; (c) monitoring progress and preparing reimbursement
requests; (d) evaluating ongoing projects; (e) administering training
activities and the community development fund.



ANNEX 2
- 35 -                     Page 2 of 3
4.        The organization of CEPA-AL is outlined in Chart 1.  Its
headquarters in Maceio would have a staff of 28 higher level staff and 25
support staff working exclusively for the project and would be divided into
two departments. There would be one department for planning consisting of
three divisions for studies and research, programming and training and a
second department for operation, including three divisions for
administration, finance and technical support. The latter one would
provide the backstopping for technical field staff. A monitoring and
evaluation unit would be directly responsible to the president of CEPA-AL.
Staff in the four regional field offices in Delmiro Goveia, Santana de
Ipanema, Arapiraca and Zona de Mata would consist of 20 technicians and 10
administrative personnel. Each office would typically be composed of one
regional coordinator, four officers and two or three administrative staff.
5.        To avoid duplication and conflicting strategies among State
agencies, all training programs would be emphasized and would be centrally
coordinated and administered by CEPA-AL Planning Division. The five types
of training would be:
(a) Induction Training. The objective would be to give an initial
orientation for staff, farmers and community leaders as to the
basic project concepts, components expectations and the
underlying strategy of "participation' in the implementation of
project activities. It would be given by CEPA-AL.
(b) Project-Related Training. The objective would be to provide
technical training by component for project staff.
Responsibility for assessing the needs and undertaking the
execution of the training program would remain with the
implementing agencies, but the CEPA-AL Human Resource Division
would have to give its clearance before releasing project funds;
(c)  Management Training.  The objective would be to improve both
CEPA-AL's own managerial skills (both at central and regional
level) as well as those of the implementing agencies. Though
organized by CEPA-AL, the courses themselves would be given by
consultants;
(d) Training of Trainers. CEPA-AL in cooperation with SUDENE would
train trainers usually with the assistance of consultants; and
(e)  Farmer Training.  Farmers would receive training on specific
components, such as credit, marketing and community development.
In each case, the respective implementing agency would be
responsible for the training.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
6.        Monitoring and evaluation arrangements have been designed to
simplify reporting requirements and to provide accurate and timely
information for project management and annual planning. CEPA-AL would
receive from executing agencies monthly reports on key physical and



ANNEX 2
- 36 -                       Page 3 of 3
financial indicators (Chart 2). In addition, the monitoring and
evaluation division would be strengthened to coordinate monitoring and
evaluation and assist regional offices to carry out ongoing evaluation of
project activities including agricultural production. Evaluation
activities of the M & E unit under the proposed project would comprise:
(a) a baseline survey; (b) ongoing evaluation and special studies of
selected topics; (c) mid-term evaluation; and (d) post-project evaluation.



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2.1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROWECT - ALAGOAS
List of Executing and Collaborating Agencies
main
Executing
Project Activity                          Agency       Main Collaborating Agencies
Water Resource Development                               EMATER
- Rural community water supply          EDRN           Private Contractors
State Agricultural Research
- Studies, trials, observation units   EPEAL           EMBRAPA-CPATSA
- Basic seed production                 EPEAL          EMATER-AL
Rural Extension
- Agricultural Extension                EMATER-AL      EMBRATER-EMBRAPA
- Social Forestry                       EMATER-AL      CEPA-AL
Rural Investment Credit                   BB, BNB, BA   EMATER-AL
Marketing Services
- Marketing information                 CEASA
- Gradingshops                          CIDAL
- Seed Multiplication                   CIDAL          Cooperatives
Support to Small Rural Communities
- Community activities                  Community      CEPA-AL/EMATER-AL
groups
- Training and technical
assistance                            CEPA-AL        EMATER-AL
State Project Administration
- M & E                                 CEPA-AL        SUDENE
- Training                              and
Executing
Agencies



It 1e1'  H1'S   1 i    I
-------    -- - i



- 39 -          ANNEX 2
Chart 2
*~umum   * 
-1s11 uuuuuuuuin
w 11w01111E11I -I|
S    -ii-uiuuuuuuininuui
sQ   X g11g11g11* uuEhEhI l  1
a;XIii__1f1f 1    1
2 R =ZiZ.oZ..-',Z'I
Z2t   Smiuiuuiimuimul
stiSu uumuuumuimu 
iSW-.CIII.IIEhI.IEh-|
SE!t~~~f EIU0'00:0:l
is y   _-_-1|-11|11_-l~it
zEs I  iiIni jillll 1- I I
8ig~  -.,jZIlijI3tiiiiiiiii i
-R -_g1111g11g11-1g1|il



- 40 -                   ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - ALAGOAS
Financial and Economic Benefits
Financial Benefits
1.        The estimated increase in crop and livestock production was
derived from nine illustrative farm models (Table 3.3). The farm models
take into account the present low level of production and the assumption
that only simple on-farm investments will be made by the farmer. The
financial rates of return range from 12% to 37% with a weighted average
rate of 24%. The impact of the project on agricultural production would be
achieved through a combination of increased productivity and expansion of
the cropped area by about 20%. The projected increases in crop yields are
shown in Table 3.3. The expansion of the cropped area would be possible
due to the increased use of irrigated land and animal traction. Increased
productivity in the range from 15 to 33% would result mainly from
increasing the cropping intensity through intercropping, more widespread
use of improved seeds, and better cultivation practices. Cropping patterns
are not expected to change dramatically, however. In the rainfed areas
more drought-resistant crops, such as short-cycle maize and grain sorghum,
would be introduced; the latter would also begin to substitute for cotton
infested by the boll-weevil.   In areas benefiting from private irrigation,
farmers are expected to increase the proportion of more profitable cash
crops, such as yams and vegetables. Expansion of both cattle and goat
herds (for both milk and meat production) would occur mainly from improved
animal husbandry and better feeding resulting from increased use of
artificial pastures (such as buffel grass), cactus and legume fodder trees
(algaroba). At full development (Year 13) the annual incremental
production generated by the project is estimated to be US$26.9 million (in
December 1986 farm-gate prices), with 80% of the incremental value of
production resulting from crops (of which 40% from food crops and 40% from
tobacco, fruit and algaroba) and 20% from animal products. Incremental
production is not expected to lead to marketing constraints as Alagoas'
present production does not meet demand.
2.        The increased production would raise incomes substantially and
would give greater food security as the effects of droughts would have been
reduced. Net annual family farm benefits, which, taking into account
supplemental income from off-farm work, currently vary between US$100 and
US380 per capita, would increase at full development to a range of US$200
to US$940, in constant terms. The expansion of agricultural activities
also would create new on-farm employment opportunities equivalent to about
8,200 man-years annually. Most of this demand would be for unskilled labor
that would be met with family labor. Many small rural community
subprojects would also generate demand for local employment, possibly of a
semi-skilled nature.



-41-                   ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
Economic Analysis and Sensitivity
3.        The overall rate of return of the project is estimated to be
14% with a 20-year analysis (Table 3.4). The cost stream for the economic
analysis is based on four elements: (a) all of Alagoas' project costs,
except those related to water supply systems, marketing fund and the
community development component or 84% of total state project costs
(including vehicles); (b) 10% of regional administration costs financed
under the Northeast Rural Development I Project (Loan 2523-BR); (c) 7% of
regional research costs financed under Northeast Rural Development Projects
for Sergipe and Bahia (this percentage is equal to the proportion of
Alagoas' rural population within the Northeast's rural population); (d) 80%
of Alagoas' share of cadastral activity costs financed under Loan 2593-BR;
and (e) recurrent costs on a declining basis from Years 9 to 11 and 25% of
Year 8 costs during Years 12 to 20.
4.         The evaluation of incremental net benefits included two elements:
(a) benefits from 10,000 farmers expected to use investment credit (1,480
irrigated farms and 8,250 rainfed farms) equivalent to 30% of the 32,400
farmers in the project area; and (b) an estimate for the incremental
benefits accruing to the remaining farmers who would be reached by the
extension service and who would adopt improved farming practices without
using institutional credit (6,300 or 28% of the remaining 22,400 farmers).
5.        Economic prices (Table 3.5) at the farm-gate were derived for the
main traded goods including maize, rice, and chemical fertilizers, taking
into account international trading prices, freight, insurance, processing
and handling costs with price trends projected according to those estimated
by the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections Department at 1986 constant
prices. Cassava, beans, sorghum and beef were valued at financial
farm-gate prices. All other outputs and inputs (including labor) were
adjusted by the standard conversion factor (0.83) to account for domestic
price distortions.
6.        Sensitivity tests (Table 3.6) showed that the rate of return is
moderately sensitive to possible variations in costs and benefits. If
benefits fall by 19% or project costs rise by 24%, the rate of return would
fall below the estimated 11% opportunity cost of capital. A lag of three
years in achieving project results, such as might occur during a severe
drought, would result in a 10% rate of return. Also, a lag of two years in
funding productive investments combined with a decline of 20% in project
benefits, such as might result from chronic delays in counterpart funding,
would result in a 10% rate of return.



- 42 -
AMI 3
T*3.1
BR2L
, IL   W? M
tAM  IrMNAL mvNatw I80DC - AUJ M5
1a A1m  Ar. 1&dmta   n,&ctm ad Vsdu of Cho SW. ad Lt_
WLent)~  Projec            At You peghg                 '
Atm         pfo&um            Arm         prfttlmd   Am    rN                     o
g  ad  twk              (ba)          (W       (h        )          (Owm)          (ha)      (.fh      m m
)bliN                      -          2D,100            -           2,s40            -        8,300        810.8
lbn..                      -          20,3Q0            -           23,650          -         3,350      1,40D.3
0aava                   4,420         42,800        14,060         164,650        9,640      2,850       3,03.0
O-qm                      -              282            -           11,450          -        11,170      3,930.6
Mae                       240            600           600           3,600          360       3,000        502.8
Ottm                      -            4,090           -             1,310          -        (2,710)      (877.8)
sor*ia                    -               -         12,780          19,170       12,780      19,170      1,62).0
Tobam                      -           4,950           -            10,8w           -         5,890      7,862.6
:huapple                  260          5,03o           380          10,450          12        5,42D        545.1
480           5760           630          10,030          150       4,270        426.0
YaM                       640          6,400         1,150          18,460          510      12,060        2972
Fbr~ ~cba               5,800             -         13,450              -         7,650          -
.ibards I                 -               -         10,000              -        10,000          -       1,912.3
D    of Past=          17,400             -         34,2D               -        16,800          -           -
dIiffi cmrcs              560             -          1,(2D              -          460           -          -
Go .t14                   -               90           -             1,42D          -         1,330      1,267.4
-}.fISt                   -            1,410           -             3,640          -         2,230      2,791.4
Cw MIlk (000 It)          -            7,390           -            18,040          -        10,650      1 381.7
Wm   FlCN                                                                                          26,873.4
/m c          tta  tWhIII   fmdiw           , pod  Ad ftwod.



- 43 -
-M 3
LU MM    UW NOW - M
Oinas d ZJugn Vsfi N2 in EIa 1u m lamc AmbwIs #
Xs redly.   b1s. */              in 
lb"       tvtbtib   UAM  -Sim        km        --      dn          cum"      N0          h M. Did .   * 1m lt    w
A1l1 1   3&        36 -d                            Vef I  Xw-*d   X,"               I'                        4           y
Alftw 2     1.310     7.2   bl"            -o                   I  SSd-o    1,570    2,01D0                       4     *     1n
AlmA  2,30     14.3                    bssSonpas. U    sd-"                 5     1,140       475                       31
3 ftm 4 ^0    43 Im"n   amm    m                                                     253    1.000   ES                     M
5     1,640    314   hfWd             bIzU7     Jate  U    hd1mf        1,'M     4,7)       2,610          7           25
iam 6        300      7.2  MAMd                -       is a. IU dI"             90      2,49d      1,'m           4           iS
A15am 7     1,110     is   hit"                -      lm & Mm   8mt-&d    73            1,210       30D           4           3X
dAlM         40       3.3   b1rD              d nout  300 u  1  S"-*d    M              1,810      t,in)          4           30
Titai51   16i,300D
4~~~I4r
DTOW    flmIq
td



- 44-                             ANNEX 3
Table 3.3
BRAZIL                             Page 1 of 4
NORTHEASTRURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - ALAGOAS
Estimated Yields and Areas of Maoor Crops at Farm Level
Yields (kg/ha)        Increase               Area
Planning Regon                Without        With                    Without        With
Project      Proiect       x          Project        Project
(at full
AGRESTE 1                                                                        development)
ALFARM 1
Tobacco and Cotton
Tobacco                       780           960        23            0.6           0.7
Cotton                        300           400        33
Tobacco and Cow Peas                                                   0.4            2.0
Tobacco                        780          960        23
Cow Peas                      350           450        28
Maize-Beans
Maize                         540           -          -             0.2
Beans                         480                       -
Tobacco                          900          --         -             0.1            --
Cassava                      10,000           -                        0.1           -
Cassava and Cow Peas                                     -             -             0.8
Cassava                       -          10,000
Cowpeas (1 year)              -             450
Uncultivated                                                           0.1           -
Homestead                                                              0.1           0.1
Total Farms                                                       1.6           3.6
(Land Purchase   2 ha)
ALFARM 2
Tobacco and Cotton                                                     1.4            1.0
Tobacco                       780           960        23
Cotton                        300           400        33
Tobacco and Cowpeas                                                    0.5            1.5
Tobacco                       780           960        23
Cowpeas                       350           450        28
Cassava & Cowpeas                                                      -              1.5
Cassava                       -          10,000
Cowpeas (1 yr.)                             450
Pineapple & Beans                                                                    0.3
Pineapple                     -          18,000
Beans                         -             360
Maize & Beans                                                          1.0           0.5
Maize                         500           600        20
Beans                         330           380        15
Tobacco                         900           -          -             O.3           -
Cassava                      10,000                      -             1.0
Pineapple                    15,000                                    0.2           -
Improved Pasture                                                       0.6           1.2
Uncultivated                                                           1.6           0.5
Homestead                                                              0.6           0.7
Total Farm                                                       t.2            772T



ANNEX 3
Table 3.3
Page 2 of 4
Planning Regon                 Without         With                    Without         With
Project       Project       2          Project        Project
(at full
AGRESTE II                                                                          development)
ALFARM 3 & 3A
Maize & 8eans & Cotton                                                   0.8            -
Maize                          450            -
Beans                          300           -
Cotton                         200           -
Maize & Beans                                                            3.0             3.0
Maize                          400            480        20
Beans                          450            550        22
Cassava                        9,500            -                        0.2            -
Sorghum & Cowpeas                                                        -              1.0
Sorghum                        -           1,500        -
Covpeas                        -              400       -
Cassava & Cowpeas                                                        -              1.0
Cassava                                   13,000        -
Coiwp.as                                     400        -
Native Pasture                                                           0.2            2.0
Improved Pasture                                                         1.5            3.0
Forage Cactus                                                            0.2            1.0
Algaroba Cactus                                                                         1.0
Uncultivated                                                             1.0            1.3
Homestead                                                                0.4            1.0
Total Farm                                                         7.3            14.3
(Laud Purchase - 7 ha)
ALFARM 4
Maize & leans & Cotton                                                   1.5            -
Maize                          450
Beans.                         300            _
Cotton                         200           -
Maize and Beans                                                          3.0            2.0
Maize                          400           480        20
Beans                          450           540        20
Maize & Beans Irrigated                                                  -              1.0
Maize                          -             700
Beans       -                  -             700
Sorghum and Cowpeas                                                      -              1.0
Sorghum                        -           1,500        -
cowpeas                                      400        -
Cotton (Coherb 4)                450           -          -              042            -
Cassava                        9,500            -         -              0.3             -
Cassava & Cowpeas                                                        -              1.0
Cassava                        -          13,000
Cowpeas                        -             400
Native Pasture                                                           2.5            1.5
Improved Pasture                                                         1.5            2.5
Forage Cactus                                                            0.7            1.0
Algaroba/Cactus                                                          -              1.0
Uncultivated                                                             3.6            2.3
Homestead                                                                1.0            1.0
Total Farm                                                        14.3            14.3



- 46 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3.3
Page 3 of 4
Planning Regon                Without        With                   Without         With
Project      Project       X          Project        Project
ALFARM 5
Maize & Beans & Cotton                                                 3.5
Maize                         450
Beans                         300           --
Cotton                        200           --
Beans (5)                       600                                    1.0           --
Cassava                       9,500           -                        0.2
Maize & Beans (3)                                                      3.5           2.5
Maize                         400           480        20
Beans                         450           540        20
Cassava & Cowpeas                                                                    0.5
Cassava                       -          10,000                     -
Cowpeas                       -             450
Maize & Beans Irrigated                                                -             2.0
Maize                         -           4,000
Beans                         -           1,800
Sorghum & Cowpeas (3)                                                                2.5
Sorghum                       -           1,500
Cowpeas                       --            400
Improved Pasture                                                       2.5           5.0
Native Pasture                                                         8.0           5.0
lorage Cactus                                                          2.0           3.0
Algaroba & Cactus                                                      -              1.0
Uncultivated                                                           9.2           8.4
Homestead                                                              1.5            1*5
Total Farm                                                      31.4           31.4
ALFARM 6
Rice                          2,500         6,000 1/    140            0.8           2.0
Maize & Beans .& Cotton                                                1.5
Maize                         450           -
Beans                         300
cotton                        200           -
Maize & Beans                                                          0.8            1.0
Maize                         400           480        20
leans                         450           550        22
Sorghum & Cowpeas                                                     -              1.0
Sorghum                                   1,500
Cowpeas                       -             400
Native Pasture                                                         2.0           0.5
Improved Pasture                                                                     0.7
Forage Cactus                                                                        0.5
Uncultivated                                                           1.1           0.5
Homestead                                                              1.0            1.0
Total Farm                                                       7.2            7.2
1/ With Irrigation double cropping.



- 47 -
ANNUX 3
^b1  3.3
Page 4 of 4
Planning lagon.                Without        With                   without         With
Project      Project       I          ?Toject        Project
ZONA DE ATA
ALPARN 7 (Rainfed)
Bananas                       )2,000        16,000        33           0.3            0.3
Maiso & Beans                                                          0.5            0.4
Haise                          480           550        15
Beans                          480           600       25
Yam                           10,000           -                       0.4            -
Cassava                        9,500           -                       0.4-
Yam & Beans                                                            -              0.6
Yam                                       13,000
Beans                                        360
Cassava A Cowpeas (8)                                                  -              0.4
Cassava                                  16,000
Coupes"                                      700
Native Pasture                                                         0.3            -
Capin Cameron                                                          -              0.3
.mprovod Pasture                                                       1.2            1.2
Uncultivated                                                           0.2            0.1
Homestead                                                              0.2            0.2
Total Farm                                                        3.5            3.5
ALFAR 8 (Rainfed/Irrigated)
Bana-n"a                      12,000        16,000       33            0.3            0.6
Malse & Beans                                                          0.5            -
maize                          480           S50       15
Beans                          480           600       25
Yam                           10,000           -                       0.4
Cassava                        9,500           -                       0.4            -
tam & Beans (Irrigated)                                                -              1.0
yoa                                      20,000
Beans                                       800
Cassa,a & Cowpeas                                                      -              0.2
Cassava                                  16,000
Cowpe..                                     700
Capim Cameron                                                          1.2            1.4
Improved Pasture                                                       0.3            0.1
Uncultivated                                                           0.2            -
Homestead                                                              0.2            0.2
Total Farm                                                        TS T3T



n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.  S    ~~~~w
RMWM MM    -                   I - fLflM
1        2        3         4        5       6        7       8        9      10       11      12       a U      4       Is      1       17
O          H3 FMm                              -496f9.0 -5191M.0 -5170  -35m.0  -43   2304 W               A 0177M1 60293  6.021  39. 011.  19 363 0  1 20 16. 07304 =0                      "-.
UK    4    ImEIW    El   511                   -496.  -51.0 -71m.0t -34.   -43.  2.46WZ7                       177714  m3o 39.0 11. 10.0 160.o 13W10 MM                             .MA"  i1m.
xxota~                    m                      MMCO ax tami nam                                     m
-  r
MiNm      . 01E                                 15.        9.    590.168    7.9    7 9  51414           5A.         &     06416  4 .6   A490. 410.6  49.   4MA0   490               3A   414
FM   ll t                                      3     3   240.3  27441   214.5  3142.0 3600  3152J.1  3131.7 31U                M        31 7   M1 l  31=7  31 7 353.7   I.7  3a?7
WIE                                          27 545.1      34   7947   YU.?  1013  1             4  0 A   09.          MA   09.    S29.   423.0    M*0  09.0   09.0   0W                 09.0
FM=  CMI nT1r             uuiN  8    LUSTtM      134.3   1569.3   213.0   19.5   215.. 113    J89  V35   191    1 .5  1t9.1   114   ML    19.S  1t                                 t"L    1M9.5
1ia                                              X397.8   3.    3592*1   3.1   302.I1  193.4  1#9.   135.3    I.    13    15U3    133                                        35     13    U53
IIEI_ MAW  1             3                       373L    41930          -         -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -       -        -       -
I I       3.  E   1                              152.0   112.20         -         -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -       -        -       -        -       -
omim    a          1i                             MA.o    704.o      0.3    w.A    6 0#                     -       -        -       -        -       -       -        -       -        -       -
muml Lu _M          3EC                         11.t9  7239   70 .9  7                             -        -       -        -       -        -       -       -        -       -                -
iNMU IU       1 3 t 3c1                        16143.9  13.1  12" 4 133S.1 12150.2 1=&2 66.  46WA  4WL.  4.1   445.  467.  4413   4.1   4431  4.1    671  465.
assm~=X=m                                       N   ..om  =mmn               anm  Cm              m o=R  m       m   man~
1ML.      T lmEltIl U    EF1I               S -21145.9-151.  -1732.L -141S1.2 -13760.2 -33.8M 4            A44  517I .9 5      #               t 1439 1 395  14511.   A 9. 141 9S11        10612.9
_ -                        _           _                                                        m
II2



-49 -                                    t3
M.5
MHUfr UM EivAiwr nowr - AUM
Principal Prims Used In Finecl an Bo,noId Analye
(in Constant Septuae 1986 Prim)
Faruuate Pricesm C
Selected Prducts                         Ufnt     Fi-nca                    Uc
1986        1986      1987     1990     1995
- ExPOt and   t      t       Products
,tton1 kg                                         2.00        3.37      4.51      5.97     7.47
Hmaw                                    kg        1.40        2.58      2.22      2.76     2.8D
Rice (paddy)                            is        2.30        1.90      2.91      3.26     3.31
SoW =                                   lg        1.2D        2.38      2.18     2.71      2.72
- Ncn'Tedd Products
Osa   (frebh rot)                       ton     350.00       - -------350.00 ------
BMWs                                   1kg        6.00       --------   6.00---  ----
f        17.00       -- - - - ---  17.00 - ---- --
,R:E InA
Urea (45%)                  51                    2.03        3.18      3.28      4.63     4.43
Triple &Sper Fhspbata (45Xp9O)          kg        2.80        3.25      3.17      3.60     3.94
Pot ssdiuciloride (60%k2O)              kg        2.38        2.52      2.48      2.77     2.94
-.Al Otbe   t/Cpus                                              Finnca Price x.83 1/
97                   factor
ScRwc: Batk MLssion and   r'  Projects (Jamzay 1987)



MM 3
- 50                                    Table 3.6
NMWrS MMMZ?=PU
Ms MM iEVM  P! - ALAS
Project Suwsitlvit  Aiulse
PRESENT VALUES OF NET STREAMS AT A DISCOUNT RATE OF 11%
D.TOT     UP lot      UP 202     IPSl 10111A102   Ullll M              50Z LAS I VA  LAO 2 YFJLABI 3 TM
C.OTT         175.067.9  26480.4  354M,.2  62431.2   051X53    -4757.4  -274.495.3   859653    5P692.7  -6625.0
UP 101        102.662.1  192,574#7  282P487.4  552t225#3   12,49.4  -77s163.2 -346.9012   13559.4  -6,13.2  -139.030.9
UP 20Z         30.256.2  120#168.9  210,081.5  4790819.5  -59t66.4  -14995694  -41943070  -6.846.4  -139.119.0 -211W367
1W 502       -186.961.4  -97,048.7   -7.136.1  262601.9  -276*874.0  -36670867  -636524*6  -276.064.0  -356.336.6  -42654.3
MM1 102       247.473,8  337,386.4  427t29.1  697,0370   157561.1   67,40.5  -20206*5   15,371.2   78,096.5    5,710.8
1111 20X      3199879.6  409,72.   499.704,9  769442.9  229,967,0  140054.3  -129,03#6  230M7770  158,504.4   78,186.7
WA 502        5379097.2  62740099   71622,5   96,6604  447.184.,6  35727?1.9    8i5340   47994.6 3467M.9   2404#.3
LAG I YEAR            -          -                                                -I7,718.8   77446.2    5.18,5
LAB 2 Y-                         -           -          -           -          -           -          -  14209.1   69.m7,4
LA3I                  -          -           -          -           -           -          -           -          - Y120008.2
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN OF NET STREAMS
3.TOT     UP 10t      UP 202     UPt5      B_102   WA u202    WM 50   LAB I YEM LAB2 YEARSIB L  3 ERS
C.TOT            13I969     15.254      16.415     19.328      12.533     10.909       4.141      12.378     11.087      10.024
UP 10t           12.671     13.969      15.143      18,096     11.220       9.578      2*672      11.208     10.027      9.057
UP 202           11.474     12.705      13.969     16,9S5      10.009      8.340       1,278      10.133      9.054       s.1
It 5SO            8,348      9.694      10.909     13.969       6,837      5.110      -2.675      7.336       6.530      5.076
lOIN la0         15.389     16.656      17.8D3     20,667      13.969     12.363       5.714      13.661     12.253     11.069
DDU  202         16,955     18,204      19.320     22.129      15555     13.969       7.426      15.084     13.549      124275
noN 54X         22*914     24.049      25.059     27.522      2t.626      20.151     13.969     20.603      18.632      16.956
LAB 1 YEAR            -          -           -          -           -          -           -      13.969     12.378      11.087
LAB 2 YEARS           -          -           -          -           -          -           -          -      13.969      12.378
LAt 3 YEARS           -          -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -      13.969
SWITCHING VALUES AT 112
WPRIAIS.   SIITCNINB   PERCENTAGE
STREAK               VALUE        VALUE       DM101
BLTOT            099.126.48  724.058,56      -19.472
C#TOT            724,05B.56  899,126.48       24.182
Mt Pmeiot V1us  at OOC 11  175,067.9
Intemd Rat of Return * 142
Cowun Eouivalnt Rat, of Return a 14.12



- 51 -
ANNEX 4
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - ALAGOAS
Documents Available in the Project File
1. Selected Bank Reports and Studies on Northeast Brazil:
- World Bank Report 3938-BR, "Rural Development Programs for
Brazil's Northeast: An Interim Assessment," February 7, 1985.
- World Bank Report 5360-BR, "Northeast Region Land Tenure
Improvement Project," May 31, 1985.
-  World Bank Reports 5350-BR, 5349-BR, 5709-BR, 6117-BR, 6135-BR,
and 6118-BR Northeast Rural Development Projects for Sergipe, Rio
Grande do Norte, April 1985, Bahia, Piaui, and Ceara, September
1986, and Pernambuco, May 1986.
- World Bank Combined Completion Report for Loans 1195 and 1714-BR.
2. State Foundation for Agricultural Planning/CEPA - Alagoas (1984)
-  Document I   - Program Summary (1 volume)
-  Document II  - Global Economic Situation of the State (5 volumes)
-  Document III - Land Tenure Improvement (1 volume)
-  Document IV  - Public Irrigation (3 volumes)
-  Document V   - Research (1 volume)
-  Document VI  - Agricultural Extension (1 volume)
- Document VII - Rural Credit (1 volume)
- Document VIII- Marketing (1 volume)
-  Document IX  - Support Small Communities (1 volume)
-  Document X   - Administration (4 volumes)
-  Document XI  - Production Plans (3 volumes)
3.  State Foundation for Agricultural Planning CEPA-AL, December 1986,
Documents III - XI updated and revised reports.
4. IBRD, SUDENE and State Government of Alagoas Preappraisal "Minutes of
Understanding," October 1986.
5. IBRD, SUDENE and State Government of Alagoas "Minutes of
Understanding," December 1986.
6. Working Papers
1. Research and Extension
2. Support to Small Communities
3. Marketing
4. Administration and Training
5. Project Costs and Economic Analyses
6. FARMOD documents



n~~~~ ef  W I            j  
l~~ li _S1l          i{Ei
,~~~i I    HW101M 



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ALAGOAS)
Implementation Schedule
Implemen"I                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FIscal Yeaw
PFC$ect ComponentImeenigI14
--    -       ~~~AgenicV    '1988        '1989         1I990         ' 1991    j   192         '1993         1991995                   ' 1996
Waoter Resource Development           ~~I
Agr. Research                         EPEALII
Agr. Research & Basic Seed Production                                                            JI
Basic Agroecological Studies
Research Trials
Cbservation Unit                                                                                                 'I II   I- -IIII1 J
Agricultural Extension                EMAii AL
Demonstraion Units                                                                                      rr      -,       -   '3T
Social Forestry Nurseties
Rural Investm-ent Credit              Banks                                    _____________________________
MarketingII                                                   I    '        T     IIIIIIIIIIII   7                                7            H     III
Marketing WnomTTation Service       SIMA       MI IIT                    I  I       I      ...Tr  r-r- T-r -r--T-T*  I                            L
Grading and Classifcotion           CIDAL      fl-'I T 
Marketing Fund                                        4i*          I      I      IIIIIII                   T T                      
Support to Small Rural Communities
Training of CD Agents                 CEPA-AL
Community ActMties                   EMATER-AL     i        m     m     mu        u        r .U               E    EU        U EK                uUU
Project Administration & Training     CEPAAl.I
Management & Technical Training*  nwru.                                             .U
Monitoring & Ongoing Evaluartion
Mid-Term Revilew
Completion Revew                                                                                                                         I    +
Leged                                                                                                                                                    Would Bank-31045:2
gessman Preparatio Actlvrtle
Implementaftin



BRAZIL                         s
NATIONAL LAND ADMNISTRATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE              j
OT-1-11               IMPROVEMENT PtOJECT                  (         B R A Z I L
PA R A                               YEARLY LAND AJUDICATION OPERATIONS
South  America
OC-16~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
< 'i I mt          -                                                  RiOGRANDE  *
0Parol'                                               DO '" 'T
4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~IU    Ky .P=;                                                            a
p~ ~ ~~~~*j~~



-8                                                                             Sa o iodoP  . 1                       ERNAMBUCO -o    FE
,7  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~-7                           G,1
-~~~  ~ ~ ~   ~~~                      t'*ze'o ~~~~~~~~Po,,o Afon,                 Q '       0CCJ
\    g  gW                = ; s<;                                        \ NS i ab   ~~~~~ALAGOAS
0Sen,ho do So4~.f~L5 ~
/  X   r   J       .:.:                              RibetrodPbmN -   V    <      s  SERGIPE
Bonny0  //      / tobre /                  7 ,ARACAJU
~ :    B  A A                              AIoAg.,nh,                                      ?2 
f?              0 ,n"eno'                             F 0e.r de Soft*o
Q             I~~~~oabo,obo
S. Am. de Jeso      StA
~~Mnjc~~~~~~vbo& ~~~~SALVADOR
GOIAS                    S Moe dVt6rio                                                              o vceN,                    Project Boundary
GOIA'S
Land adjudication:
0         ne.mdo                                               T- Year 0
Year I
(-. o  m fCob*6-0 0mN*At,s                      Year 2
N               >-..                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Yeatr 3
-                                                                                                           4> ojar4 s a7P . Sza S Land odjudica*ion under
~OJy-C                                                                                      other projects
F                                                              F.       D |nv                                                  a     Nuclei Centers
lo       0@.BRAs!L    !                                                               r                                                         State Capitals
COWN.          ~S5/ cSc|1>Rivers
T     nh  nS, = . . . \,                                    a        Ck -                                                                      State Boundaries
Iv, tl.wwnC. of 0VW
veadws .,d a .kav to, tC If*
Wrw unrntses of rho Wor )
S t t ftI-.-w F-- ,                                                                                                                              Internotional Boundaries
Com"*n The denon,,                                 MINAtERA /IS
w ft. 1'rn, do not r7pl. ontel_q                                                                                 
C  P,*v of rho pow SW* SWepoa t,                                                                                                   0         100        200       300 KILOMETERS :
>  any jooOan 4,Fte SoeQ.lor JlC.                              ,1rs,                                                                                  
< of *ny fento,v ~ any                                                                                                                                              I
ndomw,mMlf or ftvvtn o                                                                          ESPiRITO f                                      100               200 MILES       _
z < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SANT > c
co             48'                                           44                                             40                                             36 I             .  



380                             3SrS                             37'W
.a.,V                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B R A Z I L
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPME
Northeast Rural Development P
Plannina Regions:          750-
Agreste I
Agreste 11
Mata Norte
Implementing Agencies:       0
..3A   Banking Offces
_z a Local bEtenslon Offices
U8 * DO Regional Etenslon Offices
: \ i)Regional CEPA Offices
-\0t   Marketing Posts
V  /Research Stations
NAM B0
o>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I Tom
iolw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d
X               ~~~~~~~~S E R G  P E
B A  H  I A.. ' 
I    o   o    20   30   40   50                                      o
Ti d& ft ft. SW a*.**ww                                                                          X 
(W Om carowwfcs Of fd
No"we of TNS W
6~~~ ~ *                                                                                    o
V"d zr Fe Cabof                                                                      Ga do
h~~~~~~~~~~~                                             - _
or wrsow of
_                *          '   -   ~~~~~~38W  (37'30                            3



IBRD 20354
~63O                                 36W                                   w530                                   S
9T PROGRAM
:ject - AJagoas
sohyets in milimeters
laved Roads
loved Roads under Construction                                                                .
tollroods
Aunicipol Capitals
ktcrte Capital
Aunicipal Boundarles                                                                                    t R S
tate Boundaries                   Comm
laHono) Capital               *O                                           Ju
itemaflonal Boundades                                                                                                     -
0
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d    mtw m 1u      m
Quor   10                                      Mu\ 3I
S LulsdoS fti
;/X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ T  A  l \ I- ; \
-tg     >  .  . a  ,;Co|
rano7                                      1.0                                  /C 7    A N -  -
A N
5Ccu
~~~~ds_                                     I_-{1  \    .
>s~~~~~~~~Cmo Raer \                                                     ko A
1X ~~~~~~ ;                  J-.;4.                                              (.4              ..
t  /                                                \             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B R A Z I L
j~~~~~ k  D                                          i         ,_g           @' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Brasil#a
JANLAkRY 1987



38@00'                                             37 30                                                370W
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPI
Northeast Rural Development
AGRICULTURAL POTENTIAL DEFINED B
4aOrgrevet 1974)
Ctassfiticallon.    DescriDbon
S       VerV arid      ANot slted ff roained agriculture
Arid           ILted suflblity for rain-fed agiculture
I  Semi-and        ProducDon possble for croPs requiing a 3 to 4
monlts growding season
/   -\                        _      Wet - Dry       Produlffon possibb for crops requiting a good
to Plomstr\                                                                      of~ ~ \iel d rnoosture adequacy during 5 or maore
~~~~~on*.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~nofi
> g                                ><,,2  This classificallion i not found in Ajagoas
i*       .                                       ,          i         ; 1        
/                         {     vo/aG=> >~mco                                      Ouro          to tOuns
NN A M
Daknifo                  SaWft RW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d  rs
Sao ~   ~    ~     'Srtaad    Dos              aimino
oo lapm~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
o~~~~~co
t) \00                                                                         SERGIPE  5
BA H IA                                                            S    RGI   
0   10        20       30       40       5(0                                   to
TNt Ie.Ahnbe wi-' \ttby *Wm                                                    m  \ 
TN fltl 8a*zne ofI VWhal                                                      iUnII
,*&W- Ve ro#.Ckw* la fte
CA ft h dow( f  , W ,
t350 31 #3 bOehd *533                f
W8f*5 MM. and   8
#*,,ratnie Fgtile CO.pcSWA3
at *cemax* Of
1 0 10 20 30  40  50  ^  i
3731Y ~ ~      ~        ~        ~       ~        raq 37N0



,                                                       _                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IND 203
36'3W                                   360
IMENT PROGRAM
t Project - Alagoas
Y DEPENDABLE RAINFALL
7.50      Isohyets In millmeters
Paved Roads
-   Paved Roads under Construction
= C--'- Railroads
o     Municipal Capitals
@  State Capital                                                        to fir1
-~Municipal Boundaries
State Boundaries                   t                    l-eo
*     National Capital
-    *-Intemnatlonoi Boundaries                                                                                       9argoj
IB  U                                                                                                                     Pa.
o             ~~~~~~~~to Prto
C)            ~~~~CulmlnantG
to Gomiunhu  J7-
'-4~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9w
I-.,- ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ B=CeSa   g
* -;I---** ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~w
~~~~~~.  '-. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~#IIF-Q
A                                   A
~~-' .'-~~~-~~ -                                          35.30'                                   360'~~~4
-  ~         t                                 ___________________________A___
BRAZIL   AAO
PERU~
---- ~~~~                                                                            A   BOIMADsef
AW7 \2
A                                                     103Q  (~~~~~6'
-~~--~ so-    360o-                               ______________________________MQCH l



