Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16765
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
PARAIBA, MARANHAO AND ALAGOAS PROJECTS
(Loans 2860-BR, 2862-BR and 2863-BR)
June 24, 1997
Natural Resources, Environment and Rural Poverty Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Local Currency Unit: 'Cruzeiro (Cr$)
Rate at Appraisal:    Paraiba (December 1986)            US$1/Cz$14.20
Maranhao (December 1985)            US$1/Cr$8.891
Alagoas (December 1986)             US$1/Cz$14.20
Rate at Completion:  Paraiba (December 31, 1996)         US$1/R$1.0381
Maranhao (December 31, 1996)        US$1/R$1.0381
Alagoas (September 30, 1996)        US$1/R$ 0.981
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
l A new currency, the Cruzado, was introduced in 1986, followed by another new currency, the Real, in 1994
Vice President         Shahid Javed Burki
Director               Gobind T. Nankani
Division Chief         Constance Bernard
Staff Member           Anna Roumani



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AACC              Association for the Support of Rural Communities
APCR               Support for Small Rural Communities
CPATSA             Center for Agricultural Research on the Semi-Arid Tropics
EMBRAPA            Brazilian Agricultural Research Company
FAO                Food and Agriculture Organization
FINSOCIAL          Social Investment Fund
FUMAC              Pilot Municipal Community Schemes
FUNAI             National Indian Foundation
IERR               Internal Economic Rate of Return
IICA              Inter-American Institute for Agricultural Cooperation
IRD                Integrated Rural Development
MINTER            Ministry of the Interior
NGO                Non-Governmental Organization
NRDP               Northeast Rural Development Program
OED                Operations Evaluation Department
PAC                State Community Schemes
PAPP              Program of Support for the Small Producer
PCU                Project Coordination Unit
POLONORDESTE  Program for the Development of the Integrated Northeast
RPAP              Rural Poverty Alleviation Program (successor to NRDP)
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
SEPLAN             State Planning Secretariat
SETAS              State Secretariat of Labor and Social Action
SSMP               Simplified Project Monitoring System
SUDENE             Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast
TOR               Terms of Reference
TU                Technical Unit
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
PARAIBA, MARANHAO AND ALAGOAS
(Loans 2860-BR, 2862-BR-BR and 2863-BR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paze No.
PREFACE .....................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................................................iii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .....................................1
Background .....................................................1I
Project Objectives and  Design  under the  Original NRDP .....................................3
Reformulation  of the NRDP  ...... ..........................                                         ......................        6
Achievement of Project Objectives ......................................................9
The Implementation  Record.                                   ..           ................................................... 11
Use  of Consultants ......................................................                                                        21
Project Sustainability  and  Future  Operations ..................................................... 22
Bank  Performance ......................................................                                                          23
Borrower Performance ...................................................... 25
Assessment of Outcome   ......................................................                                                    29
Main  Findings and  Lessons Learned ...................................................... 31
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION .....................................................                                                            37
Table  1.   Summary  of Assessments ...................................................... 37
Table 2.   Related  Bank  Loans ..................................................... 43
Table  3.   Project Timetable ......................................................                                               44
Table 4.   Loan  Disbursements:  Cumulative Estimated  and  Actual  ..................... 46
Table  5.   Key  Indicators for Project Implementation  ......................................... 48
Table  6.   Studies Included  in the Project ......................................................                                60
Table  7.   Project Costs and  Financing ......................................................                                    61
Table  8.   Status of Legal Covenants ...................................................... 64
Table  9.   Project Costs and  Benefits ......................................................                                    73
Table  10. Bank  Resources:   Staff Inputs ......................................................                                  83
Table  11. Bank  Resources:  Missions ......................................................                                      86
Table 12. Disbursement Performance of the NRDP by State .............................. 89
Table  13. Number of Municipalities Reached  by NRDP  ....................                                        ................. 90



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Paye No.
Table 14. Average Cost of PAC/FUMAC Subprojects, by Type and State ......... 91
Table 15. Number of Subprojects Implemented and Beneficiaries Reached ......... 92
APPENDIX I:  Borrower Contribution to ICR ......................................................... 93
MAPS:            IBRD 20398, 19517, 20397



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
PARAIBA, MARANHAO AND ALAGOAS PROJECTS
(Loans 2860-BR, 2862-BR and 2863-BR)
PREFACE
I     This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for three projects under the
Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP) in the States of Paraiba (Ln. 2860-BR),
Maranhao (2862-BR) and Alagoas (2863-BR). Loans in the amounts of US$60.0 million,
US$84.0 million and US$42.0 million, respectively, were approved by the Board on June
30, 1987 for all three states. The projects became effective on October 15, 1987(Paraiba),
December 18, 1987 (Maranhao) and October 19, 1987 (Alagoas).
2.    The three Loans closed as follows: Paraiba and Maranhao on December 31, 1996
and Alagoas, September 30, 1996. The original Closing Dates were March 31, 1996 for
all three states. Final disbursement took place as follows. Paraiba (May 19, 1997 except
for an amount of US$230,000 already in the pipeline), Maranhao (May 13, 1997), and
Alagoas (February 4, 1997). Cancellation of Loan balances (Paraiba US$0.6 million,
Maranhao US$3.8 million and Alagoas US$19.8 million) was still pending at the time of
ICR preparation.
3.    This ICR was prepared by Anna Roumani, Consultant, Natural Resources,
Environment and Rural Poverty Operations Division, Department I of the Latin America
and Caribbean Region (LAC). The ICR was reviewed by Constance Bernard, Chief,
LAIER, Luis Coirolo, Brazil Portfolio Manager, LAIER, Tulio Barbosa, Acting Head,
Bank Recife Office, and Orville Grimes, Projects Adviser, Country Department 1.
4.    The ICR is based on material in the project file and discussions with Bank staff and
consultants who were involved in the projects. It draws on the Mid-Term evaluation of
the NRDP, including a study by the Operations Evaluation Department of the Bank, and
other recent evaluations by; the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO/UN) jointly
with the World Bank, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT); the University of
Michigan, the Federal Secretariat of International Affairs (SEAIN) of the Ministry of
Planning, and the Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast (SUDENE) as
the representative of the Federal Government. These, and other internal Bank reports on
rural poverty programs in the Northeast, are on file in the LAC Information Services
Center.






- Ill -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
PARAIBA. MARANHAO AND ALAGOAS PROJECTS
(Loans 2860-BR, 2862-BR and 2863-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Northeastern region of Brazil comprises nine states and the northern, semi-
arid zone of the central state of Minas Gerais, totaling about 1.7 million sq. km. The
Region's immense concentration of rural poor and persistent under-development result
from geographic, economic and political factors evidenced in the harsh climate and poor
natural resource base, inequitable land tenure and distribution, a traditional and clientilistic
culture, illiteracy and lack of basic infrastructure and services. The Bank has financed
rural development in the Brazilian Northeast since the 1970s. The Northeast Rural
Development Program (NRDP) -- of which projects in the States of Paraiba, Maranhao
and Alagoas are reviewed in this report -- sought to alleviate rural poverty by improving
the productivity and incomes of small farmers. The Program was a component of a larger
package of Federally-funded sectoral programs to improve regional socio-economic
conditions, and was consistent with government's new rural development strategy for the
Northeast initiated in 1982. The NRDP acknowledged that in aggregate, the special
programs, sectoral projects and Federal irrigation projects designed to reduce rural
poverty, had had a negligible impact.
Project Objectives
2.    Original Objectives. The initial objectives of the NRDP through its component
state projects, as stated in the Memorandum of the President (MOP), were to: (i) increase
regional agricultural production and productivity; (ii) generate employment for low-
income farm families; (iii) increase the states' capacity to provide efficient agricultural
services to small farmers; (iv) increase community participation in all phases of the
development process; and (v) promote water resource development and technology
generation and diffusion to reduce small farmers' vulnerability to drought.
3.    Project Components. To meet these objectives, the original projects (except for
Maranhao) had seven components: (i) water resources development, including irrigation
and feasibility studies; (ii) agricultural research and basic seed production; (iii) agricultural
extension for basic food and commercial crops, small livestock and social forestry; (iv)
agricultural credit, for investments in crop and livestock production and on-farm water



- iv -
resource development; (v) marketing services including training; (vi) support to small rural
communities (known by its Portuguese acronym as APCR), to promote the mobilization
and participation of small farmers, to finance small rural investments in production,
processing and rural infrastructure, and to create employment; and (vii) project
administration. The NRDP-Maranhao contained an additional component of
environmental protection: to protect and manage the Mirador State Park, an area of
500,000 ha covering the watershed of the Itapecuru River
4.    Hindsight and current practice tend to color assessments of the NRDP projects at
entry. It should be noted that the Program was developed and its component projects
appraised under a centralized military government in which public agencies controlled
most development activity. Concepts like participation, organization and decentralization
entailed political difficulties in Brazil, had yet to enter the Bank's lexicon, and were largely
experimental in project design (e.g., the Latin American social funds, and the APCR
itself). Nevertheless, there was a conscious attempt to innovate. Greater flexibility,
accountability from below, more narrowly-focused activities, and improved planning and
coordination were ingredients believed likely to improve the outcome of the Program.
5.    On the other hand, project objectives still depended on the synergy between many
complementary activities both within each project and in other Federal Government
programs meant to interact with the NRDP (known collectively as Projeto Nordeste).
Numerous components and agencies required effective services and coordination.
Administrative, financing and implementing arrangements were complex, multilayered and
centralized, and left little room for beneficiary involvement. While there were some
variations in project design between states, the projects could have gone further to
calibrate design to the institutional, political and agronomic environment of each state.
Land tenure improvement depended on progress under a separate operation (the
Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project, Ln. 2593-BR). The focus was on
small farmers, excluding other segments of the rural poor. Measures to address potential
counterpart funding delays and shortfalls were unlikely to be effective and indeed, certain
aspects of project design had the potential to aggravate those delays. On balance
however, appraisal of the projects was satisfactory given existing constraints, and subject
to two caveats: evident pressures to lend to Brazil in the mid-1980s; and, an apparent
uncritical acceptance of the capacities of implementing agencies, although the federal
agencies did have considerable technical strength.
6.    As with earlier operations, the loans were made to the Federal Government which
coordinated the Program, approved its annual operating plans and budgets, and provided
counterpart funds, monitoring and evaluation. While it is technically true that most
project activities were implemented by state, not federal agencies, the Federal Government
exercised dominant control over these projects both from Brasilia and through the
Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast (SUDENE).
7.    Post-Reformulation Objectives. Delayed, uneven project implementation and
the results of a Mid-Term Review (1991) launched a process culminating in reformulation
of all ten NRDP projects in 1993. The focus changed from rural/agricultural development
emphasizing small farmers and agricultural production, to rural poverty alleviation
emphasizing poor rural communities and investments in their productive, infrastructural



and social priorities. The comparatively successful APCR component, which stressed
community planning and organization, acknowledged community needs and contracted
out for technical expertise, essentially became the leading edge of the NRDP. While still
evolving and not without problems, its poverty alleviation impact was positive, the cost
per family relatively low, and disbursement and commitment rates far exceeded those of
other components. In contrast, the other components relying mostly on public sector
implementation -- extension, credit, research, water supply and irrigation -- showed
serious delays. A high proportion of their resources financed recurrent costs -- less than
one-third of project funds reached the beneficiaries -- and their poverty impact was slight.
8.    Project objectives were re-framed to: (i) provide basic social and economic
infrastructure, and employment and income-generating opportunities for the rural poor
(not only small farmers); (ii) support rural community groups in identifying, planning and
implementing their own subprojects; and (iii) involve state governments more directly in
decision-making and financing the Program. Both the Federal Government and the States
agreed with the Bank that a more cost-effective, participatory method for poverty
alleviation was needed and that the features of the proposed model matched a growing
sentiment in Brazil for decentralization, the elimination of public agencies from the
development process, transparency, accountability and local empowerment.
9.    The New Mechanism. The new scheme incorporated the following features,
replicated in all ten states: (i) state, as opposed to federal, responsibility for counterpart
funding; (ii) more streamlined flow of funds to the states, eliminating SUDENE from the
chain and reducing its role overall; and (iii) two new programs: State Community
Schemes (PAC), where rural community associations submitted subproject investment
proposals directly to State Project Technical Units (TUs) which screened, approved and
released funds for subprojects, interacting directly with the beneficiaries; and Pilot
Municipal Community Schemes (FUMAC), in which subprojects identified and
prepared by rural communities were reviewed by specially-created project Municipal
Councils (MC), with members drawn from the community, local government and civil
society. MCs promoted local consensus-building on priority needs through open 'town
meetings", screening and submitting subprojects to the State (TU) for approval and
financing. FUMAC's basic difference from and advantage over PAC, is its provision for
direct municipal involvement in community mobilization, organization and priority-setting,
which fosters participation and transparency.
Implementation Experience and Results
10.   Achievement of Objectives Prior to Reformulation. In common with the other
Northeast states, the projects in Paraiba, Maranhao and Alagoas were unable to achieve
their original objectives. Public investment and project counterpart funding were severely
reduced while public agencies encountered rising fiscal deficits, macro-economic
distortions and successive reform programs. The NRDP's centralized "machinery" and
delivery of services by public agencies ran counter to the new Constitution of 1988 which
decentralized government and foresaw a greater role for the private sector. Inter-agency
coordination was exceptionally difficult, agencies' implementing skills were limited and
excessive loan funds went for their operating costs. Beneficiary participation was lacking
and thus project ownership and maintenance of investmyents were negligible. Project



- vi -
benefits (especially research and extension) were frequently appropriated by larger
farmers, while multiple components served different target groups without being mutually
reinforcing, scattering resources and impact. Other issues included institutional, policy
and functional problems affecting extension, credit and the land tenure project, and
performance problems with the choice and sustainability of investments.
11.   The Post-Reformulation Experience. In marked contrast to the initial phase, all
three states reviewed here successfully achieved their development objectives following
reformulation, albeit experiencing fiscal, institutional and/or political difficulties which
affected implementation to varying degrees. First, effective targeting caused these
projects to reach their intended beneficiaries, including the landless, in numbers vastly
exceeding estimates at either their original appraisal or at reformulation. Investment
subprojects -- categorized as productive, infrastructure and social -- are generating
employment and economic growth, and improving the incomes and welfare of large
numbers of rural poor, including women. Poor communities have demonstrated their
willingness to share the cost of investments and maintain them, fostering sustainability.
Benefits are largely concentrated in the poor communities, with multiplier effects on local
economies and early signs of stemming out-migration. Project-funded investments
hastened communities' recovery from the 1993 drought and promoted more intensive use
of land. In the poorest municipalities PAC and FUMAC have been the most important,
and often the only, source of funding for basic needs.
12.   Second, community empowerment -- specifically through FUMAC which stresses
participation, transparency and local decision-making -- prospered under these projects,
although FUMAC expansion in Alagoas was minimal due to political circumstances in that
state. However, the mobilization of communities for FUMAC incorporation was gaining
ground in Alagoas in the final phase, and similar efforts were in progress in Paraiba and
Maranhao, where FUMAC expansion was dynamic. Evaluations indicate that FUMAC
Municipal Councils are a viable means of giving the rural poor greater control over
planning and investments affecting their well-being, and participation has had sustainable
political effects. The now numerous community associations congregate a large number
of voters, and the political community is aware of their influence.
13.   Third, the projects have earned strong support from state and municipal
governments. They are valued as a critical resource for investment in poor communities;
as representing potential, significant cost-savings (on average 30% to 40%) on the
provision of infrastructure and water supply by public agencies; and, as generating tax
revenue for state and municipal governments from the sale of productive outputs. State
project units are providing services more rapidly in response to communities better
equipped to demand and choose. Fiscal crises in all three states affected their counterpart
funding performance. In Paraiba and Maranhao, an increasing number of municipalities
were willing to share the state counterpart funding obligation, seeking greater
accountability and cost-effectiveness from state governments in return. In Alagoas, the
minimal expansion of FUMAC effectively cut off this avenue for the state, whose acute
fiscal crisis meant that about US$19.8 million, or 47% of the Loan, remained for
cancellation.



- Vll -
14.   Achievements under the Maranhao environmental protection component, which
was carried through into the post-reformulation period, were substantial and included
establishing guard posts at strategic locations, education programs for local populations,
reforestation of degraded areas, demarcation of an additional 300,000 ha as an
environmental preserve, and successful resettlement of affected communities.
15.   Sustainability. Cost-sharing and better choice and prioritization of subprojects
have promoted the sense of ownership and control which builds sustainability.
Commitment to the operation and maintenance of investments is shown by associations
signing legally-binding agreements, and in the many associations which have built reserve
funds to cover maintenance. Subproject investments have been of good or satisfactory
quality, favoring sustainability. However, some earlier productive subprojects may not be
sustainable. Corrective measures to improve sustainability were prioritized in the later
stages of these projects, and are stressed in new Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects in six
Northeast states.
16.   Project Costs, Financing and Timetables. Loans totaling US$186.0 million
were made to the States of Paraiba (US$60.0 million), Maranhao (US$84.0 million) and
Alagoas (US$42.0 million) to benefit some 143,000 small farm families, about 24% of the
NRDP target population. Cancellation of final Loan balances totaling about US$24.2
million was pending at the time of ICR preparation. Actual project costs were,
respectively: US$96.0 million, US$149.4 million and US$42.l1million. The reformulation
resulted in a markedly different allocation of project financing relative both to categories
and costs estimated at appraisal.
17.   Loan Covenants. The key legal covenants in the pre-reformulation phase
concerned the Borrower's obligation to provide counterpart funds, and to ensure proper
functioning of the rural credit component. Compliance was deficient for both covenants in
the three states. Post-reformulation, the states assumed legal responsibility for
counterpart funds (through Letters of Amendment) and the credit component was
discontinued. Covenant compliance post-reformulation was satisfactory in Paraiba and
Maranhao but fiscal crisis prevented Alagoas from complying with its counterpart funding
obligations.
18.   Bank Performance. Preparation and appraisal of the original projects showed a
thoughtful attempt to innovate and deal with risk in a difficult environment, but the
framework, concept and mechanisms retained many of the characteristics which had
prejudiced the outcome of earlier projects in the region. The fiscal and macro-economic
environment merited greater attention, and institutional capacity, especially state, was
over-estimated. Realistically however, the Bank would have been clairvoyant to foresee
the full nature and implications of pivotal events which came to affect project execution,
especially after 1988.
19.   The Bank's choice was essentially to cancel these projects or try to improve their
impact and cost-effectiveness, a protracted design and dialogue process which culminated
in dropping all the traditional integrated rural development (IRD) components, focusing
fully on a new methodology and making it work. Clearly there was no bureaucratic
method in the Bank at the time to bring project reformulation to rapid closure.



- viii -
Constitutional changes were a reality from 1988, counterpart funding shortages were
evidently chronic, and project execution was troubled. Yet, reformulation did not occur
until seven years after effectiveness, a situation unlikely to occur under the Bank's
implementation culture of the 1 990s.
20.   The Bank, through the PAC/FUMAC model, has made a major technical
contribution to Brazil, based on its own and other diverse experiences; launched a more
democratic and effective process of rural poverty alleviation; and perhaps more
importantly, supported the decentralized allocation of resources and the creation of social
capital in the rural Northeast. Obviously, the dramatic shift did not imply that the rural
poor no longer needed credit, extension and other services or that smallholder agricultural
production had lost currency. Indeed, having gained confidence in the capacity of the
community-based investment mechanism to satisfy a range of basic needs, the Bank is now
addressing several critically important subsectors in the Northeast: market-based land
reform, integrated water management, and rural financial market development.
21.   The removal of public institutions from the development process at reformulation
was undoubtedly a reaction to the high proportion of Loan funds absorbed by
administrative costs pre-1993, and also a key characteristic of the new model of
participatory, decentralized, demand-driven investments in which the communities
themselves directly contract service providers from the public or private sector. However,
it did not signal abandonment by the Bank of its traditional commitment to institution-
building, which in this model of rural development occurs at the local level and covers a
more diverse clientele, including the Municipal Councils, community associations and
NGOs. Moreover, at the time of reformulation, other Bank projects were already
financing institutional development of agencies responsible for agricultural research and
extension.
22.   The World Bank Recife Office (established in 1974), has been fundamental to the
implementation and supervision of the reformulated NRDP. Its three task managers are
dedicated exclusively to working with the Northeastern states, handling all supervision
activities including procurement reviews and field visits. In this manner, Bank support has
been better tailored to the decentralized structure of the reformulated program. The
Recife Office also updates and manages a global database, the Simplified Project
Monitoring System (SSMP), which provides detailed information on individual state
projects and serves as a monitoring tool for the Bank and the state TUs.
23.   Borrower Performance. Macro-economic, fiscal and political crises rapidly
eroded the Federal Government's (FG) support for these projects in the first phase of the
NRDP. Post-reformulation, with counterpart funding responsibilities transferred to the
states, the FG periodically delayed the release of loan funds and/or advances of Federal
(Treasury) funds to them, whether for political reasons or to promote financial discipline.
The states also delayed the release of resources to the associations even when federal
Loan funds were available, whether for fiscal, political or other reasons. The flow of
funds improved, especially in 1995/96. The federal, state and municipal governments'
willingness to support a radically new approach to rural poverty alleviation was
instrumental in the success of these projects.



- ix -
24.   SUDENE's performance prior to the reformulation was mixed. Its control over
the use of Federal funds, maintaining a certain equilibrium in the Program, and provision
of TA for training and monitoring, were satisfactory. However, its guidance and
supervision were weak, its operational rigidity curbed the intended flexibility of the
Program, and it lacked sufficient trained staff for its role even though it was grossly over-
staffed. Project-funded TA had little institutional impact on SUDENE. Its role was
reduced to ex-post evaluation. Following reformulation, performance improved and it
provided an insightful, timely Completion Report on behalf of the Federal Government.
25.   The TUs are crucial for the success of this model. TU performance depended on
the availability of qualified staff, good leadership, the equipment and budget to operate as
planned, and the degree of administrative and financial independence from parent State
Secretariats. Pre-reformulation, the TUs, while administratively and legally strong, lacked
the political and fiscal power to influence the powerful state implementing agencies, and
their role was diminished as a result. Post-reformulation, generic problems -- overstaffing,
centralized project management and inadequate field presence, supervision, and/or
monitoring and evaluation -- variously affected each of the TUs. In all three states
reviewed, the capacity and calibre of the TU improved greatly in 1995 following elections-
based administrative turnover The excellent performance of the Paraiba TU merits note.
In the initial stages after reformulation TUs unfamiliar with and tentative about the new
decentralized, participatory lending, tended to assume responsibility for the subproject
planning and implementation cycle at the expense of the local context and beneficiary
participation. While the outcome of such intervention could prove favorable on occasion,
the critical participatory element was missing.
26.    Project Outcome. Staff Appraisal Reports for the original projects contain an
internal economic rate of return (IERR) for all three states of 14%, reflecting in part their
lack of resources. It is implicit from the history of these projects and their radical re-
design in 1993 that they were unsatisfactory, and their IERRs pre-reformulation have not
been re-calculated. The Mid-Term Review of the original projects (1991) noted that the
impact of the Program on production, income and employment was difficult to assess due
to the lack of concrete information and data, in spite of considerable effort to institute
good monitoring and evaluation.
27.   The reformulated projects fell under the rubric of targeted interventions based on a
demand-driven mechanism for which the costs, benefits and rates of return would not be
determined with any certainty ex ante and thus IERRs were not calculated, or accordingly,
re-calculated. However, recent evaluations (Bank/FAO 1995, 1996 and 1997) have
addressed the poverty alleviation impact, cost-effectiveness and sustainability of a range of
commonly-demanded infrastructure and productive subprojects in all NRDP states. While
primarily illustrative, given the newness of most of these subprojects (and in the case of
the 1995 evaluation, the quest for a satisfactory evaluation methodology), the results are
positive and promising.
28.    Evaluations of the two states of Paraiba and Maranhao show that: (i) internal
economic rates of return (IERR) for sample productive subprojects (small-scale irrigation,
small ruminants production, forage grinders, cereals processing including manioc flour and



- x -
rice mills) ranged from 12% to over 50% in financial terms, and 37% to over 50% in
economic terms; (ii) in terms of the sensitivity of the IERRs to the distorting effects of
publicly-funded grants, stemming from costs associated with raising these funds (i.e.,
taxation), using the shadow price of public funds reduced the respective IERRs, but they
remained significantly positive, exceeding 14% in all cases, except one; and (iii) the initial
investment per additional job created was low and benefit/cost ratios were satisfactory. In
Alagoas, lack of reliable data did not allow similar analyses.
29.   Financial sustainability analysis for various productive subprojects in Paraiba and
Maranhao indicated that user fees charged by beneficiary associations adequately covered
operation and maintenance (O&M) and the costs of replacing worn equipment. The net
income of beneficiary associations was found to be sufficient, after deducting all O&M
expenses, to cover replacement of the productive investments analyzed, in periods
significantly shorter than their useful life. Supporting documentation/data for the above
findings are held by the Bank's Recife Office.
30.   Each of the three projects is rated Satisfactory reflecting its achievement of
development objectives, sustainability and exit ratings in final supervision Forms 590.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Lessons Learned
31.   Main Findings. Despite the effort to innovate and to head off counterpart
funding and other potential problems, the original NRDP projects remained quite
traditional. Deteriorating fiscal and macro-economic conditions had a devastating effect
on counterpart funding and implementation progress. The centralized project design could
not function as envisaged when faced with momentous changes in the political economy
which demanded a more decentralized, participatory development process. Thus, while the
Bank could not control the larger forces impinging upon the project, the project design
itself generated problems.
32.   The reformulated projects successfully reached their objectives because their
design and implementation strategy fit the evolving political, economic and social context.
This legacy resulted from "revolutionary" decisions: (i) by the Bank, to take a poverty
alleviation approach, with all its implications of decentralization, grants, ownership and
participation, instead of a rural/agricultural development approach; and (ii) by the Federal
and State Governments, to relinquish a significant measure of political control by
empowering rural communities and, more importantly, by acknowledging the ability of the
rural poor to establish their own priorities and make decisions. Several of the states,
including among the reviewed group Alagoas, must still overcome political and other
constraints impeding full acceptance of the participatory model, but commitment is there
and progress is being made. Finally, community-based development is not a "magic
bullet" for poverty reduction in the Northeast, which is why the Bank, having launched a
significant process with measurable impact on beneficiaries, is now turning its attention to
other major constraints in the sector.
33.   Among the project-specific findings were the following. FUMAC proved more
effective than PAC demonstrated in: greater participation and transparency; larger
numbers of subprojects per municipality; more beneficiaries overall; and generally lower



- xi -
cost both per subproject and per beneficiary. While FUMAC has proven capable of
eroding the traditional "clientelism" of the Northeast, it cannot alone transform long-
standing political, economic and social patterns (especially if its expansion is impeded).
Organized communities can influence the allocation and use of municipal financial
resources, and NGOs can provide vital project services and help organized communities
to maximize project benefits. The environmental impact of the generally small-scale PAC
and FUMAC subprojects was insignificant but certain subprojects are likely to have
environmental side-effects needing attention. Finally, modifications designed to address
identified shortcomings have been incorporated into the new RPAP. States and
municipalities have proven willing to make needed corrections.
34.   Future Operations. There was no legal requirement for the three states to
prepare a plan for future operations, and none was prepared. The same is true for
monitoring of future operations. Nevertheless, prospects for maximizing project benefits
appear good. The States, their Governors and the Technical Units are supporting policies
and actions which promote decentralized decision-making and management. Communities
have demonstrated their willingness to operate and maintain their investments responsibly.
Further, given the radical change in approach to rural poverty alleviation, there is
considerable interest in the Bank, in Brazil and elsewhere to track the evolution and
impact of these projects.
35.   Lessons Learned. The lessons, substantiating Bank-wide experience, are as
follows:
(a)   Most RD projects will falter under severe macro-economic and fiscal
pressures, and a policy environment unfavorable to agriculture;
(b)   When a program strategy and project design is overtaken by events which
make it redundant, the Bank should promptly undertake the needed
changes, including complete reformulation if necessary, which will
enable it to succeed in new circumstances;
(c)   The willingness to experiment benefits projects Bank-wide. The
reformulated projects emerged from a successful pilot experience
(APCR), enriched by drawing on wider experiences, and their successors,
the RPAPs have continued to pilot increasingly progressive variants of the
core model.
(d)   Grant-based investment is a legitimate and effective tool for jump-
starting capital accumulation by the rural poor, and the matching grant
approach has contributed to sustainable local development in the three
states;
(e)   Decentralization of fiscal and investment decision-making to state and
local government and beneficiaries improves project administration and
subproject quality. Clearly-defined operational incentives and penalties are
needed to counter departures from project guidelines. A key component of
decentralization, beneficiary participation in subproject selection,



- xii -
implementation, financing and supervision generates ownership and builds
sustainability. Vigilance and appropriate controls are needed to prevent
political interference in the participatory process,
(f)    Poverty targeting mechanisms should be simple, explicit and
monitorable; be based on objective criteria; foster transparency and
minimize political interference in project resource allocation and subproject
selection. Timely, well-designed information campaigns support targeting
by ensuring transparency and community knowledge of program
objectives, guidelines and access;
(g)   Sustainability of project investments is enhanced by municipal and
community cost-sharing, beneficiary involvement in local public investment
allocations, and when TA is provided at all key stages of the subproject;
(h)   Successful community-based investment requires quality technical
assistance throughout the subproject cycle for: improving the genesis
and outcome of productive subprojects; community mobilization,
organization and skills development; and institutional development of the
TU. "On-the-job" training for communities is essential but not risk-free.
Finding TA in rural areas needs creativity;
(i)    Supervision is indispensable for subproject and overall project success and
should be strengthened, involving local entities closest to the communities,
particularly Municipal Councils and NGOs;
(j)    Productive subprojects need rigorous selection, preparation, TA and
supervision to maximize their commercial potential and sustainability.
Their inherent social objectives in a poverty context should not imply
"softer" analysis of their feasibility, cost-effectiveness and rates of return.
Eligibility should hinge on maximising their beneficiaries; strict guidelines
should govern their operations; and user fees should be charged for O&M;
(k)   Related to the above, project design should pay careful attention to
baseline studies as the springboard for well-designed monitoring and
evaluation and for assessments of the economic and financial rates of
return on a range of productive subprojects. Accessible, comprehensive
monitoring and evaluation systems improve subproject assessment,
targeting and efficiency and are essential planning and management tools;
(1)    Standardization of documents, designs and unit costs simplifies
subproject preparation and evaluation, facilitates procurement, prevents
faulty design and reduces processing bottlenecks;
(m)   Dissemination of "best practices" such as the FUMAC councils in
Paraiba, the preparation of pilot municipal development plans in Maranhao
and successful experiences in other states, through information exchanges



- xiii -
among TUs, at training seminars and workshops, can hasten learning and
reward innovation; and
(n)   Graduation of some communities may be necessary as the aggregate
benefits of several subprojects equip them to leverage funds from other
sources. The pervasiveness of rural poverty in the Northeast indicates the
need to find practical, operational ways of identifying and monitoring
communities which are close to achieving this status.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
PARAIBA. MARANHAO AND ALAGOAS PROJECTS
(Loans 2860-BR, 2862-BR and 2863-BR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background
1.    The Northeastern region of Brazil comprises nine states' and the northern, semi-
arid zone of the central State of Minas Gerais, totaling about 1.7 million km2. The
Northeast has long been the single largest regional concentration of rural poverty in Latin
America. In the mid-1980s when the ten projects under the Northeast Rural Development
Program were appraised -- projects in the States of Paraiba, Maranhao and Alagoas are
assessed in this report -- more than one-third of all Brazilians living in poverty, and almost
two-thirds of the rural poor, were living in the Northeast. The region has absorbed an
immense amount of budget resources over several decades in the quest for solutions to its
persistent poverty and under-development. A combination of geographic, economic and
political factors, reflected in the harsh climate and poor natural resource base, inequitable
land tenure and distribution, a traditional, paternalistic culture, illiteracy, and the lack of
basic infrastructure and services, explains the predicament of the rural poor. Rural
incomes are generally low and highly variable. Periodic or permanent out-migration of
large numbers of the rural poor to bigger centers in the Northeast or the South, is
common.
2.    Profile of the States Reviewed. The State of Paraiba covers some 56,400 km2
and is the third smallest state in the Northeast. Annual rainfall ranges from 400-700 mm,
irregularly distributed and with prolonged dry periods in the semi-arid areas, to 600-1,000
mm in the transitional zone, to 1,000-1,500 mm in the humid coastal and inland, elevated
regions. The state has two major rivers (Piranhas and Paraiba), underground water is
plentiful but deep and of poor quality in the interior. At the time of appraisal (1987),
about 48% of Paraiba's population of three million was rural, and decreasing due to
poverty-induced out-migration. Some 90% of the agricultural workforce earned less than
the minimum wage (about US$657 per year). Agriculture accounted for only 23% of
state GDP. Rural living conditions were precarious, with two thirds of the rural
population illiterate, high infant mortality, lack of basic services, and extremely skewed
The States of Bahia, Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Sergipe, Maranhao, Piaui, Paraiba,
Pernambuco and Alagoas



- 2 -
access to land. Small producers were growing mostly foodcrops and the production of
cotton, sugarcane, pineapple and livestock dominated. Lacking adequate technology and
other inputs, yields were low and incapable of generating even minimal working capital.
3.    Maranhao. With a total area of about 328,700 kM2, Maranhao is the second
largest state in the Northeast and the only one lying mostly outside the "drought polygon."
Located in a transition zone between the semi-arid Northeast and the tropical Amazon,
average annual rainfall ranges from 2,500 mm in the northwest, to 1,600 in the northeast
and center, to 1,200 mm in the south. Vegetation accordingly varies from tropical forest
to native palm (babassu) to the stunted vegetation of the elevated plains (cerrado). At the
time of appraisal, some 80% of the state's economically active population was engaged in
agriculture, which generated about 32% of state GDP. Average per capita income (1981)
was around US$320 compared to US$760 for the Northeast and US$1,700 for the entire
country. Rural areas were characterized by extremely limited access to basic services, and
high rates of malnutrition, infant mortality and illiteracy. Land ownership was markedly
lopsided: 83% of known rural producers were non-owners or lacked secure title; 85% of
recorded holdings were less than 10 ha and occupied only 5% of total agricultural land.
Small farmers used few modern inputs, practicing shifting subsistence farming, while
agriculture was dominated by extensive livestock and traditional food production.
4.    Alagoas. Occupying an area of only 27,730 km2, Alagoas is the second smallest
state in the Northeast. Average annual rainfall varies from 1,500 mm in the coastal area
(zona da mata) to about 700-900 mm in the agreste which covers some two-thirds of the
state. Soils are fertile near the Sao Francisco River which borders its southwestern zone,
but in the agreste have low productivity. Total population at appraisal was 1.9 million, of
which 52% was rural, and population density was the highest in the Northeast, at 68
persons/km2. Average rural per capita income was below the relative poverty level of
about US$330, and living conditions poor, with high rates of infant mortality and limited
access to treated water and sanitation. Land ownership was skewed: 75% of all farms
were under 10 ha and occupied only 10% of total agricultural land. Agricultural
production was dominated by extensive sugarcane cultivation. Tobacco was also an
important crop which, along with basic food crops, was mostly grown by small farmers.
5.    Bank Support to the Northeast. Rural development of the Brazilian Northeast,
focusing on poor farm families, has been assisted through Bank projects since the mid-
1970s. The strategy and design of these projects have changed over time, building on the
lessons of experience. The Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP), launched in
the mid-I 980s, had a 15-year horizon and sought to alleviate poverty among the rural
poor (mainly small farmers). It was one important element in a larger package of
Federally-funded sectoral programs known as Projeto Nordeste, designed to improve
regional socio-economic conditions through interactive, complementary effects across
sectors. It was based on a broad regional policy framework, a set of sub-sectoral
guidelines, and multi-year state rural investment plans. It was consistent with the new rural
development strategy for the Northeast initiated in 1982 and acknowledged that in
aggregate, the special programs, sectoral projects and federal irrigation projects up till that
time, had not fulfilled their poverty reduction objectives,



- 3 -
Project Objectives and Design under the Original NRDP
6.    Objectives. The main objectives as stated in the Memorandum of the President
(MOP) were to: (i) increase regional agricultural production and productivity; (ii) generate
income and employment for low-income farm families, (iii) increase the states' capacity to
provide efficient agricultural services to small farmers; (iv) increase community
participation in all phases of the development process; and (v) promote water resource
development and technology generation and diffusion to reduce small farmers'
vulnerability to drought (and pest outbreaks in the case of Paraiba). The NRDP was also
intended to strengthen SUDENE (Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast)
to regionally coordinate, monitor and evaluate the NRDP; and to promote regional
agricultural research appropriate for small farmers.
7.    Components. The ten NRDP projects were with few exceptions virtually
identical in design, the differences between them arising from project management and the
objective circumstances in each state. Project objectives would be achieved through seven
components: (i) water resources development, including irrigation and studies; (ii)
agricultural research and basic seed production; (iii) agricultural extension for basic food
and commercial crops, small livestock and social forestry; (iv) agricultural credit, for
investments in crop and livestock production and on-farm water resource development;
(v) marketing services, including training; (vi) support to small rural communities (apoio
as pequenas comunidades rurais - APCR), to promote small farmer mobilization and
participation, finance small rural investments by farmer groups for production, processing
and rural infrastructure, create employment and foster accountability of public agencies;
and (vii) project administration. The NRDP-Maranhao contained an additional
component of environmental protection: to protect and manage the Mirador State Park,
an area of 500,000 ha covering the watershed of the Itapecuru River. The projects' target
population was low income farmers of which about 143,000 were expected to be reached.
At least 20,000 additional families would benefit from water supply, community
development and other components.
8.    Design and Strategy. Hindsight and current practice tend to color assessments
of these projects at entry. They were developed and appraised under a centralized military
government in which public agencies controlled most development activity. Concepts like
participation, organization and decentralization entailed political difficulties in the Brazil of
this period, had yet to enter the Bank's lexicon and were largely experimental in project
design (e.g., the Latin American social funds, and the APCR itself). Even so, there was a
conscious attempt to innovate in order to improve project outcome, through greater
flexibility, accountability from below, more narrowly-focused activities and improved
planning and coordination. The pilot APCR component was a synthesis of many small
experimental actions worldwide, Bank-financed and other.
9.    Achieving project objectives however, still depended on the synergy between many
complementary activities, dependent in turn on efficient systems of service delivery, and
effective coordination between numerous agencies and several layers of the Brazilian
government. This cumbersome framework had undermined previous programs. The



- 4 -
preparation file record indicates that concerns were expressed about: the capacity of state
and regional agencies to cope financially and institutionally with ten new integrated rural
development (IRD) projects; the poor record of credit lines under previous projects; the
size of the recurrent cost portion of total project costs;2 agricultural area and production
assumptions which implied substantial changes in small farmers' behavior without
discussion of how this would occur; and, whether the beneficiaries could realize economic
benefits within a reasonable time period.
10.   The overall design was not sufficiently participatory even though the NRDP was
considered groundbreaking at inception because of features permitting and requiring
beneficiary participation (e.g., APCR, and state-level regional committees with rural union
and NGO participation). Apart from APCR and water supply activities, however, there
was insufficient room or opportunity for beneficiaries to express their needs and influence
the shape and outcome of project activities.
11.   Despite the risk analysis asserting that NRDP project execution and expected
benefits were not directly dependent on other sub-sectoral projects in the short-term, the
SARs are clear that increased access to land was essential for sustained rural development
in the Northeast and would increase the expected impact and benefits of the three projects.
Assurances were obtained from the states during negotiations that specified amounts of
land would be available for distribution to project beneficiaries, by target dates, via the
complementary Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR). It
is also evident that projects and programs under Projeto Nordeste were expected to have
interactive effects with the NRDP but inadequate attention was given to the implications
of their not materializing to provide those effects.
12.   The Bank was satisfied that potential counterpart funding delays and shortfalls
would be reduced through provisions for new channels and procedures, the merging of
special rural programs and the addition of FINSOCIAL (Social Investment Fund)
resources. Further, the Federal government in 1986 had inter alia, established an ad-hoc
inter-departmental working group in Brasilia to resolve the delays in the flow of Federal
funds to the Northeast project units. The focus on a few key production constraints to
concentrate funds on activities which provided direct benefits, the regional scope of the
NRDP, and broad support for the program among senior government officials and local
leaders, were also expected to reduce the risk.
13.   However, the counterpart funding difficulties which arose revealed several issues:
the states' total dependence on the effective and timely release by the Federal Government
of both counterpart and loan funds (a design feature for which there was no alternative at
appraisal); the complexity of the bureaucratic machinery for release of funds; annual
budget allocations below appraisal estimates, vulnerable to inflation and to over-control by
SUDENE; and cumbersome accounting systems and procedures.
2     Memorandum, October 26, 1986. Recurrent costs would be "amply covered by increased tax
revenues arising from the projects' incremental agricultural production"



- 5 -
14.   The macro-economic and policy context, perhaps the dominant factor affecting
project implementation in all three states, was mentioned only obliquely in the SARs. The
Northeast's abundant supply of cheap labor made it vulnerable to an over-valued exchange
rate, while the inflationary environment was bound to affect the credit component.
Planned increases in agricultural production and productivity were foiled by policies which
penalized agriculture -- exchange rate over-valuation reduced returns to agricultural
exports, tariff protection increased the cost of inputs, and administered prices for farm
produce, below market levels, depressed returns to farmers.3
15.   As documented in the Mid-Term Review of the NRDP (1991), the concept
envisaged various components being implemented simultaneously through different state
agencies, with their impact being the increased production and income of beneficiaries in a
particular area. Not all components would benefit all small farmers, rather, a package of
tailored, complementary actions was targeted at defined groups. Such an approach
assumed quite sophisticated joint planning and design of "instruments" for a given group
and strong coordination during implementation. However, the state Technical Units (TU)
lacked the political strength to control the often quite powerful federal and regional
executing agencies. Project components thus devolved to independent sub-programs of
the agencies, which tailored work programs to their own interests, not those of the
projects.
16.   The NRDP recognized from the outset that detailed operational planning including
monitorable goals was needed, to prevent dispersion and ensure coordination of activities.
However, while promising results were obtained in some states with a "programming by
objectives" approach, in general, objectives were not translated into specific area and
group targets for desired outputs. While this was intended to provide flexibility over time,
there was no concrete and meaningful way of measuring progress or impact. The
executing agencies and SUDENE clung to the traditional component approach, and
resisted detailed planning and programming for sub-areas and sub-groups.4
17.   The beneficiary population of "small farmers" targeted was quite heterogeneous.
Program design admitted that different components would apply to different groups of
small farmers. In practice, and in the absence of detailed operational planning, the concept
of differentiated targeting of beneficiaries and components was unworkable and was
ignored.5 Differentiation of overall project design between states would have been
prudent. The Program adopted a homogeneous approach to the projects, not calibrating
3     Dynamics of Rural Development in Northeast Brazil: New Lessons from Old Projects, OED
1991
4     NRDP, Mid-Term Review, November 1991
Ibid



- 6 -
them sufficiently to the institutional, political and agronomic environment in each state,
with projects constructed from a menu of activities eligible for financing.6
18.   The rural credit component also encountered design-related problems: state
government banks could not participate because budget regulations prevented them from
handling non-repayable (subsidy) funds; the credit component was relatively isolated from
the other components and there was little collaboration between the banks and the TUs on
credit activities; and farmers were, not surprisingly, unwilling to incur debt without
knowing what their repayments would be, since outstanding balances would be adjusted
for inflation and they feared the adjustments would exceed their product price increases in
spite of the 30% subsidy. Project personnel appear to have not been aware that the credit
terms remained fairly attractive even under the circumstances.7
19.   The Loans. Loans totaling US$186.0 million (about 22% of the NRDP total) and
financing 50% of project cost net of taxes, were made to the States of Paraiba, Maranhao
and Alagoas to directly benefit around 143,000 families, 24% of the total NRDP target
population of about 575,000 small farm families. The combined estimated total project
cost for the three projects was US$382.6 million. Projects were to be implemented over a
period of about eight years.
20.   While it is technically true that most project activities were implemented by state
agencies, not federal, the Federal Government both in Brasilia and through its regional
agency SUDENE, exercised dominant control over these projects, coordinating the
program, approving annual operating plans and budgets, providing counterpart funds and
monitoring and evaluation services. Delayed approval of budgets and release of funds, in
turn, delayed implementation and reduced project purchasing power due to the inflation
effects.
Reformulation of the NRDP
21.   Despite successful experiences in different States and activities, the original NRDP
foundered in all ten states and did not achieve its basic objectives. The fundamental
problem was the escalating macro-economic and fiscal crisis in Brazil and the
incompatibility of the projects' centralized structure and administrative arrangements with
the rapidly changing political, economic and social context. This was borne out by a
comprehensive Mid-Term Review (1991) and an OED study,8 which prompted an
agreement between the Bank and Borrower to reformulate the Program, a protracted
process which lasted until 1993.
6     Dynamics of Rural Development in Northeast Brazil: New Lessons from Old Projects, OED,
December 16, 1991
Ibid
Ibid



- 7 -
22.   The focus changed from rural/agricultural development, with the emphasis on
small farmers and agricultural production, to rural poverty alleviation, emphasizing poor
rural communities and varied productive, infrastructure and social investments. The
comparatively successful APCR community-based investment component was the starting
point for the complete re-design of the Program to reflect the growing sentiment in Brazil
for decentralization, transparency, accountability and local empowerment.9
23.   New Objectives. Project objectives were re-defined to: (i) provide basic social
and economic infrastructure, and employment and income-generating opportunities for the
rural poor (not only small farmers); (ii) support rural community groups in identifying,
planning and implementing their own subprojects, and (iii) involve state governments more
directly in decision-making and in financing the Program. While maintaining the
fundamental program objectives albeit in different form, both Bank and Borrower saw the
reformulated NRDP as part of a policy of compensatory actions responding to an
emergency, i.e., the heavy impact on the rural poor of economic and climatic crises and
macro-economic and fiscal adjustment (SUDENE 1996).
24.   The reformulation process had two distinct phases. The first, protracted and
"painful" phase started in June 1990 and culminated in the formal re-design of the Sergipe
project (Ln.2523-BR) effective in early 1992. Expecting replication of the Sergipe model
in all other nine states, most of the original state-executed project components were
discontinued from June to November 1992 (e.g., water resource development, agricultural
research, seed production, extension, credit and marketing services), the APCR
component was transformed, and the role of the executing agencies was either reduced or
eliminated. Remaining funds would be allocated to productive"' investment subprojects to
be executed by beneficiary communities. These were larger-scale investments involving
small farmers from several communities and managed by "apex" beneficiary organizations.
They were largely residual components from the earlier phase of the projects and included
only subprojects at a relatively advanced stage of preparation or implementation. "
25.   From November 1992 onwards, reformulation entered its second phase. 12 The
emphasis shifted markedly towards further decentralization (towards the states,
municipalities and communities), transparency in funds allocation and greater beneficiary
control over project identification and implementation. Drawing upon the successful
APCR component and similar schemes elsewhere in Latin America, the NRDP was
converted into a community-based development program, dropping all components
9      Study of Popular Participation in the Northeast, C Kottak and A Costa, University of Michigan,
February 7, 1994
The emphasis was still agricultural production and income generation
Il    Kottak and Costa:, Ibid
12    The Solidaridad program in Mexico was an important influence. A study tour to Mexico,
sponsored by the Bank, was a critical step in gaining acceptance for the new approach and
fostering Brazilian ownership of the reformulation.



- 8 -
targeting agricultural production and incorporating new features: (i) State as opposed to
Federal, responsibility for providing counterpart funds; (ii) streamlined flow of funds to
the States by the National Treasury, through the Ministry of Rural Integration, without
having to go through SUDENE, whose role was reduced; and (iii) two new programs:
State Community Schemes (PAC) and Pilot Municipal Community Schemes (FUMAC).'3
26.   The Mechanism. The re-designed projects provided matching grants to rural
community associations to finance small-scale subprojects identified by those groups as
priority investments for community well-being. Grants (with a community contribution of
10-20% depending on the type of subproject, to enhance ownership) were justified as
permitting access of the poorest to resources for needed facilities and services without
their having to repay at high nominal interest rates.
27.   Community subprojects would be screened, approved and implemented through
two different mechanisms: (i) State Community Schemes (PAC) in which rural
communities submitted their subproject investment proposals directly to the State Project
Technical Unit (TU) which, screened, approved and released funds for subprojects,
interacting directly with the beneficiaries; and (ii) Pilot Municipal Community Schemes
(FUMAC), in which subprojects identified and prepared by rural communities were
presented to project Municipal Councils for review. 14 The Councils, composed of
community members, local government representatives and members of civil society,
promoted local consensus-building on priority needs through open "town meetings", and
screened and submitted subprojects to the State (TU) for approval and financing.
Communities in a FUMAC municipality could not use the PAC mechanism as well, nor
was it necessary to have had PAC in order to adopt FUMAC -- in this sense, the system
was not graduative. FUMAC is a more progressive model than PAC, and the Bank has
always encouraged its expansion.
28.   Decision-making and implementation devolved to the municipalities and
communities, the state governments were more directly involved in financing and
administration, and the responsibilities of public agencies were substantially reduced. An
action plan, translated into a set of monitorable indicators, was agreed with each state.
Eligibility for project benefits included community associations and cooperatives which
might include small farmers, artisans and fishermen, living in communities or district
centers with less than 7,500 persons. Subproject cost could not exceed US$40,000
equivalent, including community contributions. Beneficiaries had (under Brazilian law) to
legally register as associations in order to receive public fuinds, had to accept full liability
through an agreement with the TU for O&M of the investment, and had to make cash or
kind contributions of at least 10% of subproject cost
13    Memorandum June 29, 1994.
14    Project Municipal Councils are a separate entity from the municipal governments arising out of
the normal political process, although the development process naturally involves considerable
interaction between the two.



- 9 -
29.   These two programs became the core of the reformulated NRDP. All PAC and
FUMAC subprojects were ultimately approved by the State TU and operated under the
same ground rules. The basic difference was that FUMAC directly involved the
municipality which assisted the TU to mobilize and organize communities and help these
to define priorities for investment. This evolved over time to the point where, under the
successor projects to the NRDPs, the FUMAC Municipal Councils, not the TUs, now
have the responsibility of approving subprojects submitted by their communities. With
certain modifications (including a new, pilot version of FUMAC further decentralizing
resource allocation and control in selected, eligible municipalities), this is the model for
projects under the new Rural Poverty Alleviation Program (RPAP) in the Brazilian
Northeast.
30.   The reformulated Program became effective on September 28, 1993, and became
fully operational in all ten Northeast states (Sergipe was reformulated a second time to
conform to the new model) by January 1994. Due to the increased focus on poverty
alleviation and conforming to a previous amendment to the Sergipe project, overall
funding was increased from 50% to 60% of project cost, net of taxes. At the time the
reformulation became effective, the aggregate loans for Paraiba, Maranhao and Alagoas
were, based on the original Loan amounts (and excluding the initial deposit into the
Special Account), about 28% disbursed,'5 leaving a balance of US$131.2 million, about
43% of the combined NRDP disbursement lag at that time.
Achievement of Project Objectives
31.   There is broad agreement that prior to 1993, the projects in Paraiba, Maranhao and
Alagoas were not achieving their objectives, in common with the rest of the states under
the NRDP. A major recovery occurred as a result of reformulation and the broad
elements of their outcome vis a vis their re-defined objectives, are summarized below. 16
Individual states encountered different challenges, constraints and unique experiences, the
more important of which are discussed further on in this report.
32.   Socio-Economic Benefits for the Rural Poor. During its three years of
implementation, the reformulated NRDP reached around 1. 8 million families. In the three
states reviewed, well over 556,000 targeted families (about 2.8 million people), including
landless, benefited from community-based development through the generation of
1 5   Paraiba 36%; Maranh5o 27%; and Alagoas 25%.
16    Evaluations of the reformulated NRDP include the following: World Bank/FAO, "The
Reformulated NRDP: Performance and Evaluation, February 1995; World Bank/FAO, "NRDP:
Performance and Evaluation", March 1996; University of Michigan, "Baseline and Popular
Participation Study" initiated in 1993 by Kottak and Costa, followed by a community impact
evaluation in July-October 1994; studies under the "ARIDAS Project on Regional/Municipal
Development in Semi-Arid Areas of the Northeast"; an evaluation of NRDP commissioned in
1994 by the Federal Secretariat of International Affairs (SEAIN), Ministry of Planning; MIT
working draft for the World Bank Brazil Implementation Commission, February 1996; and
Superintendency for the Northeast (SUDENE) Borrower Completion Report on the NRDP, 1996.



- 10-
economic growth and improved quaiity of life. Increased income and employment
opportunities for various family members including women are emerging, raising in some
instances quite remarkably, the living standards of beneficiary families. This trend is
expected to gain momentum as productive subprojects, most of which are fairly recently
implemented, consolidate and mature.17
33.   Capital accumulation has started at both the local and household levels, fostering,
inter ahia, the sustainability not provided by previous development efforts in the
Northeast. Beneficiaries saw a high proportion of project funds (about 93%, compared to
about 35% before) and subproject benefits, in general, remained with targeted
populations. Investments satisfied priority needs and are of good or satisfactory quality.
Consequently, poor communities are willing to share the costs of investments, and to
operate and maintain them. Multiplier effects on local economies are evident and there are
early signs in many municipalities that out-migration has slowed. Communities with
project-funded investments recovered faster from the 1993 drought and used their land
more intensively. In the poorest municipalities in all three states, PAC and FUMAC were
the main, and often the only, source of funding for rural infrastructure, productive and
social investments.
34.   Support for Community Empowerment. All three state TUs intensified
efforts,especially in the final year, to train and mobilize municipalities and community
associations, specifically to incorporate them into the FUMAC program which stresses
participation, transparency, and local control over decision-making and subproject
implementation. Without doubt, participation in the reformulated projects has had
sustainable political effects, more profound in Paraiba and Maranhao, than Alagoas. The
FUMAC municipal councils are a viable means of empowering the rural poor. The now
numerous community associations congregate many voters, as the political community has
noted. Further, the State Technical Units have developed standard designs for a broad
range of subprojects to simplify preparation; established technical and cost standards to
foster quality and sustainability; and sought the services of diverse entities to provide
technical assistance and supervision to the communities.
35.   Involvement of State Governments in the Program. The projects in Paraiba
and Maranhao have received strong political support from the states and municipalities; in
Alagoas the evolution of that support has been troubled but progress is being made. Their
political benefits aside, the projects are valued as a supplementary resource (and possibly
the only assured one) for investment in basic community needs; as generating tax revenue
for State and Municipal governments from the marketing of productive outputs-, "and as
17    Brazil: Northeast Rural Development Program - Performance and Evaluation, World Bank/FAO,
March 14, 1996 and May 1997 (Draft).
For instance, in Maranhao, the sales tax (ICMS -- the principal tax applicable to marketed
products) on rice and manioc flour produced currently by the 140 rice mill subprojects and the 80
manioc flour mills and remaining for sale after family consumption are estimated to amount to
about US$0.7 million per year.



- 11 -
representing potential, significant cost-savings (on average, 30%-40%) on infrastructure
and water supply installed by public agencies.19 Provision of services by the state project
units and participating public enterprises, e.g., electricity and water (services commonly
requested by communities) has become more rapid and efficient in response to rural
communities prepared to be more demanding. The State Governments, while
experiencing diverse and sometimes serious problems, especially fiscal, have responded,
increasingly with the aid of municipalities, by supplying counterpart funds more promptly
and accelerating disbursements -- a sharp break from past performance. Those
municipalities willing to share the counterpart burden have sought from State
Governments in return, greater accountability and cost-effectiveness.20
The Implementation Record
36.    State Performance Prior to Reformulation. Major policy changes and economic
uncertainties created a climate in which the original projects could not be implemented as
planned. Several critical factors had an adverse impact on the projects in all three states.
First, rising fiscal deficits and macro-economic distortions severely limited Federal
capacity to invest and to provide counterpart funding for the projects, and caused the
deterioration of public agencies responsible for project investment and services delivery.
Meanwhile, coordination between the numerous public agencies responsible for
implementation, especially with irregular funding, was (as always) difficult to achieve, and
too high a proportion of project funds supported recurrent expenditures/administrative
costs.
37.    Second, the new Constitution of 1988 shifted power and fiscal resources from the
Federal level to the states and localities, which further impaired the Federal Government's
ability (and willingness) to fund many existing programs. However, the design of project
decision-making, administrative and financing arrangements, which largely pre-dated these
changes, remained centralized at the Federal level, and the provision of services rooted in
public agencies when support was shifting towards a greater role for the private sector.
As part of the overall process of change, successive reforms abolished key Federal
agencies, contributing to the uncertainties delaying implementation of the projects.
38.    Third, liberalization of agricultural marketing and trade policies resulted in record
harvests and the perception that agriculture was resilient to the unfavorable macro-
economic context, causing longer-term sectoral programs such as land reform and rural
development to lose priority in funding decisions. However, policy-makers were forced to
19    Data in various states confirm this finding. Thus, in Maranhao, rural water supply systems
funded by NRDP cost on average US$23,000 compared to US$32,000 when installed by
CAEMA, the water parastatal; in the case of rural electrification, NRDP costs, depending on the
kind of network, ranged from US$3,750 and US$17,100 per km versus the US$6,300-US$19,400
per km charged by the electricity company (CEMAR); for rural road rehabilitation, the cost was
USS6,000 under NRDP versus US$9,700 per km when executed by the state Roads Department.
20     World Bank Policy Research Paper No 1498, August 1995.



- 12 -
re-examine this stance when continued instability caused a marked decline in the sector
from 1990. Further, the failure of most component programs of Projeto Nordeste to
materialize focused attention on the NRDP as the pivotal poverty alleviation strategy,
creating unrealistic expectations, and criticism of its design and implementation.
39.   Beneficiary participation, an innovative feature of NRDP project design and
philosophy, was steadily eroded as executing agencies, confronting increasingly erratic
funding for these projects, were reluctant to engage in participatory planning. Investments
frequently deviated from beneficiary priorities and thus neither the beneficiaries, nor the
states, felt much sense of ownership or obligation to maintain them. Multiple components
tended to serve different target groups without being mutually reinforcing, dispersing
resources and impact, while measures to foil the access of large farmers to project benefits
were ineffective. 21
40.   The Mid-Term Review of 1991 revealed that the implementation performance
among specific states varied less than among project components, i.e., in addition to major
themes affecting all the projects, component-specific problems were important
contributing factors in the delays experienced Program-wide.22 These included: the
states' limited capacity to plan and implement irrigation development ventures;
institutional problems in agricultural extension; and virtual paralysis of the agricultural
credit program in each state. Performance problems relating to the choice of investments
and their sustainability were also experienced in irrigation, water supply and in the APCR
component. Finally, the complementary land tenure improvement program fell short of its
targets because of continuing institutional and policy struggles, and this hindered rational
planning and implementation under the NRDP projects. Results of individual state project
implementation up to reformulation are contained in Table 5A.
41.   The APCR Component. The APCR component (and its related water supply
component) supporting small community investments based on community planning,
organization and out-sourcing of needed technical expertise, became the leading edge of
the NRDP in each state. Still evolving and by no means trouble-free, the APCR
acknowledged the expressed needs of the communities, its poverty alleviation impact was
positive, the cost per family relatively low, and disbursement and commitment rates far
exceeded those of other components. The project record conveys the relative dynamism
of this component from Program start-up.
42.   Such was not the case with components which relied heavily on public sector
implementation -- extension, credit, research and irrigation schemes. These showed the
worst delays, notwithstanding considerable variation state to state based on local
21    Memorandum, May 28, 1993.
22    Regional activities were controlled by Federal agencies as follows: production-oriented research
(EMBRAPA and CPATSA); overall policy and planning responsibility and regional coordination
of the NRDP (SUDENE); and land-related actions, under a separate, complementary project
(INCRA).



- 13 -
circumstances. A high proportion of their resources financed recurrent costs, and their
poverty impact was slight. Project administration by the Federal Government and the
states continued, as in previous programs, to absorb a high proportion of loan funds
relative to actual investments in poor communities.
43.   State Performance Since Reformulation. NRDP disbursements accelerated
following reformulation. The release of Loan funds by the Federal Government was
intermittently delayed but the situation improved from mid- 1995 after new state
governments addressed the administrative and political constraints responsible. State
counterpart funding was frequently scarce in all three states, resulting in special efforts to
familiarize municipal governments with the program and promote municipal sharing of the
state counterpart obligation, with positive results in Maranhao and Paraiba where
municipal resources were increasingly leveraged through the FUMAC mechanism (about
5% and 1% of total subproject costs, respectively, in Maranhao and Paraiba). The acute
fiscal crisis and institutional problems in Alagoas, as well as minimal expansion of
FUMAC, meant that counterpart finding was seriously delayed and final disbursement
was only half the original Loan. Notably, beneficiary coverage under the reformulated
projects in all three states greatly exceeded targets set at the original appraisal and at
reformulation (Table 15).
44.   Promotional/information campaigns intended to inform communities about the
program were delayed and not sufficiently comprehensive in a"- three states, which
affected the early course of the projects and created some distortions in subproject
prioritization and selection, and sustainability. Nevertheless, demand for the program
from the communities was strong, presenting a challenge for the limited cohort of
technical agents in each state. Once subproject proposals were approved, completion
took on average, about four months. Lags between approval and completion derived
mainly from TUs lacking funds (loan and counterpart) immediately available to transfer to
the communities, and management problems in the TUs.
45.   TypicaHly, communities demanded water and electricity investments first,
subsequently choosing productive and other investments. This was the case region-wide.
The diversity of subprojects demanded -- about 100 different types whose relative
importance varied state to state -- illustrates the deprivations of rural poverty. Certain
kinds predominated: (i) in infrastructure -- rural water supply and electrification (the latter
making up 55% of subprojects in Paraiba, 42% in Alagoas and 21% in Maranhao) and
rural road rehabilitation (about 26% in Maranhao); (ii) among productive subprojects --
small-scale irrigation, cereals processing, manioc flour mills, small ruminants production,
tractors for communal use, grain threshers and other small agricultural equipment, clothes-
making; and (iii) among social subprojects -- multi-purpose community centers, health-
related house improvement, sanitation, rural school rehabilitation and day care centers.
46.   Community demand for specific types of subprojects was influenced in several
ways, depending on the state and the period. In the period immediately following
reformulation and far less so as the projects evolved, elected state and municipal officials
acted as intermediaries between the communities and state projects units. Mayors



- 14 -
promoted the creation of associations to present proposals which were essentially
municipal initiatives. In some cases, the resulting subprojects did not reflect true
community priorities and certainly the participatory, organizational element was weak in
these cases. In general however, and with the exception of Piaui, the incidence of
political intermediation (between communities and TUs and Municipal Councils) was not a
distinguishing feature of any of the NRDP states.
47.   Evaluations suggest that communities' inability to influence the process stemmed
from the adequacy or otherwise of information about project rules and mechanisms and
about eligible subprojects. On occasion, information campaigns were less effective than
direct communication between political leaders and the communities, which tended to
skew their choices towards subprojects favored by the state. Nevertheless the participation
of state and local leaders can be positive and it should not be assumed that such
investments were not also prioritized by the communities themselves. Rural electrification
subprojects in all three states were viewed favorably as a critical pre-requisite for
economic and social activity. 23
48.    The issue boils down to preserving transparency and curbing negative political
influence. It is also clear that acceptance of both the concept and practice of community-
based development is an evolutionary process, not afait accompli from the moment of its
introduction.24 Supervision missions in ti,e three states monitored information availability
and dissemination and repeatedly stressed its importance in mission Aides Memoire; it is
also a prominent feature of the new Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects in the Northeast.
49.    The average cost of subprojects, both PAC and FUMAC in the three states was
highly variable due to differences in design and technical specifications. There is no
discernible pattern relative to each other or the entire program (see Part II, Table 14).
Costs were relatively lower in Paraiba possibly because the communities tended to request
financing for lower cost investments in order to maximize the number of subprojects
and/or simply because some productive subprojects typically requested (forage grinder and
cereal thresher) required very low cost equipment. In general, whether PAC or FUMAC,
infrastructure and social subprojects tended to have a lower cost per beneficiary by virtue
of their benefiting a larger number of people.
50.   In general, infrastructure subprojects implemented by the communities themselves
(directly or through small local firms) were markedly less expensive -- some 30% on
average -- than those executed by government agencies or contractors. Moreover, the
NRDP essentially substituted for costlier state programs in many of the states. Several
cases illustrate this. In Maranhao, the costs of rural road rehabilitation were generally
23     Other influences on communities' selections included observing which subprojects in
neighboring communities tended to get approval; and the apparent biases of technicians in the
TU. Such biases might result from the perceived lack of sustainability of certain subprojects or
the belief that certain social subprojects might be better served under alternative targeted
programs.
24     Memorandum, April 9, 1996 and MIT evaluation.



- 15 -
70% cheaper than those obtained through public bidding. In Paraiba, construction of
small works and irrigation systems managed by the associations was 50% less expensive
than those executed by public agencies. In terms of substitution, the rural electrification
network installed by the NRDP in Paraiba in 1995 alone, was equivalent to that developed
by the previous State Government under other programs over a period of four years. In
Alagoas, the costs of acquiring equipment for road paving and water storage averaged
30% less than similar purchases by the mayors. Cost consciousness came naturally to
associations eager to expand their subprojects, while on the other hand, suppliers tended
to boost prices charged to public agencies. A resume of state performance follows.
51.   Paraiba. In a pattern fairly typical of its peers, the Paraiba project, known locally
as Projeto Cooperar, was launched in a promising manner, initially encountered certain
generic problems stemming from managerial errors and political/financial conditions in that
state, rapidly gained momentum as it and the TU evolved, and showed tremendous
dynamism in the two final years. Early difficulties sprang from the TU's decision to
commit the majority of project funds to productive subprojects, many of which had
managerial and operational problems. There were also early misunderstandings about the
role of the municipalities in the FUMAC program. The TU released funds to the
associations through the mayors, who essentially claimed ownership of items purchased.
In some instances, mayors purchased equipment and executed works on behalf of the
beneficiaries, reducing beneficiary ownership and hence sustainability. Ineffective
information/publicity campaigns were a major factor in these and similar situations. Bank
missions worked with the TU to eliminate such occurrences and ensure broad
understanding of the mechanism. In general, poiitical intermediation was negligible in
Paraiba.
52.   Physical and financial evolution of the project was surprisingly good given the
fiscal situation in 1995 and resulted from: the State Government's determination to find
the counterpart funds and to fully disburse the Loan, participation by the mayors in
counterpart funding; and, the speed and efficiency of the TU in approving proposals and
liberating funds. Adherance to project guidelines and standards was good.
53.   FUMAC in Paraiba. The most successful application of FUMAC was seen in
Paraiba, where close to 40% of all subprojects approved were delivered under this
mechanism (compared to 8% in Alagoas, reflecting the political circumstances in that
state). The spread of FUMAC is explained by the long tradition of associative action in the
state, backed by a favorable political environment and the TU's sustained efforts to
mobilize and train the communities. FUMAC success and the organizational efficiency of
the Municipal Councils led to an average of 34 subprojects being processed and approved
in each FUMAC municipality, while PAC municipalities received only 9 subprojects.
54.   Paraiba, like Maranhao, established FUMAC-type Councils in the municipalities,
capable institutions which functioned in a mature and transparent way even when local
officials were indifferent. Many had considerable operational and organizational
autonomy and were already potential candidates for FUMAC-P under the RPAP. The TU
successfully avoided political interference in the Councils by reinforcing authentic



- 16 -
representation of the communities on them; organized seminars for FUMAC Council
members, producing a valuable inter-change of experiences and operational plans for the
Councils; and re-structured FUMAC Councils found to be ineffective or lacking
transparency.
55.   At the time of reformulation, Paraiba had disbursed about US$21.4 million of the
original Loan amount of US$60.0 million. The annual rate of disbursement after 1994
was about US$12.0 million per year. Final disbursement amounted to US$59.4 million,
and the Loan was all but fully-disbursed. The project financed 2,308 subprojects --
almost 1,400 more than the reformulation target -- of which 1,455 were PAC (63%) and
853 FUMAC (37%), benefiting about 150,000 rural families in 171 municipalities, well
over four times the number of beneficiaries anticipated at reformulation. Of these
subprojects, some 74% represented small rural infrastructure, 23% were productive
ventures and 3% were social investments. Investments totaled US$47.6 million and
averaged about US$318 per beneficiary family. Beneficiary contributions totaled US$4.8
million equivalent. The aggregate impact has been a significant, measurable and visible
improvement in the quality of life and well-being, and income and employment
opportunities, as detailed below.
56.   Subproject Investments. Eight types of subprojects accounted for almost 80%
of all subprojects approved in Paraiba: (i) about 1,263 rural electrification subprojects
are benefiting well over 64,000 families, not only improving their living conditions but also
permitting income-generating productive activities, such as the production of high value
crops,  with visible wellbeing effects on the local communities; (ii) the 264 rural water
supply subprojects are benefiting some 23,000 rural families, reducing their vulnerability
to the cyclical and protracted drought characteristic of Paraiba (where the State and
affected municipalities spent over US$4.0 million -- equivalent to the total cost of all the
permanent water supply systems financed in the state under the NRDP -- in just 10 months
of 1993/94 to provide trucked water) and saving the time and effort spent in daily water
collection, mostly by women; (iii) small -scale irrigation is part of a tradition of irrigation
in Paraiba: the NRDP financed simple infrastructure and equipment for small communal
schemes. Some 4,200 farm families are involved in 79 such subprojects, which have on
occasion, experienced technical problems and marketing constraints; (iv) some 54 small-
scale cereals (rice or maize) processing subprojects benefited about 6,800 families, and
21 new manioc flour mills were financed for another 1,200 families; (v) obtaining small-
scale agricultural equipment for collective use is also a priority in Paraiba as shown by
the 55 such subprojects implemented. Of these, forage grinders, a popular, low-cost
25     Bank/FAO: NRDP - Performance and Evaluation (Draft) 1997. An illustrative financial and
economic analysis was undertaken for a group of electrification subprojects which have
prompted complementary investments, financed through a special credit program of Banco do
Nordeste, for maracuja production in a municipality in the northern part of the state. The
analysis considered as subproject benefits only the maracuja production, while taking into
account the cost of additional credit-based investments in irrigation infrastructure and
equipment. This is a good example of a low-cost NRDP infrastructure subproject (about US$140
per person) which beneficiaries could exploit to increase family income and living standards.



- 17-
equipment, benefited some 2,000 small livestock producing families; (vi) 44 subprojects
promoting small ruminants production contributed to better nutrition and increased
incomes of some 3,500 rural families; (vii) fishing colonies -- some comprising indigenous
groups -- in coastal areas use artisanal methods for subsistence fishing. About 31
artisanal fisheries subprojects benefited about 700 poor fishing families and are expected
to increase fishermen's production and income. However, external factors such as fish
availability, wide swings in market prices and competition from commercial fishermen
have affected income potential; and (viii) multi-purpose community centers (41
subprojects benefiting 3,700 families) constituted the principal type of social subproject
financed in Paraiba.
57.   Maranhao. The NRDP-Maranhao, known locally as Projecto Comunidade Viva,
was launched vigorously: counterpart funding was timely and adequate; the TU was
reorganized; and all 12 planned FUMAC Councils rapidly established. However,
difficulties in executing the required information campaign and in accrediting agents to
disseminate its essentials meant beneficiaries had faulty understanding of the program and
its guidelines, including their cost-sharing obligation. EMATER was unwilling to assume
this role because the NRDP no longer covered the expenses of executing agencies. In
addition, excessive documentation requirements and bureaucratic procedures for the
formation of associations discouraged the participation of the poorest and delayed
subproject approvals, although the State made commendable efforts to maintain good
standards.
58.   The 1994 election season disrupted the normal flow of funds and project execution
teitiporarily ceased following a change in the State Secretary of Planning. The situation
improved in 1995 with State counterpart and Federal Loan funds being provided
smoothly. Field supervision picked up following the formation of six ad hoc supervision
teams to visit subproject sites upon release of funds to identify and overcome emerging
problems, and the hiring by the TU of specialist staff to address technical problems.
Training events were conducted for FUMAC Councils and community leaders.
59.   In the final year, the State worked actively to ensure adequate counterpart at a
time of fiscal crisis, involving the municipalities in providing funds through signed
agreements and over time, imposing their contribution as a condition for NRDP
participation. Maranhao was the best example of financially pressed state governments
being bailed out by the municipalities, and demonstrated the capacity of the program to
leverage financial resources. However, this practice on occasion penalized poorer
municipalities; made the NRDP vulnerable to political haggling; and contributed to the
concentration of subprojects in just 14 municipalities (10% of those eligible) which
received about 35% of all NRDP funds in the state.
60.   FUMAC in Maranhio. The FUMAC mechanism was employed in diverse,
innovative and instructive ways in Maranhao as the State Government tried hard to foster
growth and employment. Rapidly establishing the required 12 FUMAC Councils and
faced with serious counterpart funding shortages, the State promoted municipal
participation in both the execution and financing of the program which resulted in the



- 18 -
rapid formation of another 31 Councils. Many of these were hastily established, lacked
appropriate training and knowledge and were not genuinely representative. Their
performance was deficient, especially in subproject selection and approval, and about 40%
of these Councils were shut down in 1996 for evaluation and restructuring. The remaining
Councils received training through workshops and exchanges of experiences.
61.   A selected group of 14 FUTMAC Councils graduated into special "decentralized"
FUMACs with legal autonomy, their own bank accounts, the right to release funds directly
to the beneficiaries and oversee their use, provide technical assistance and supervision, and
authorize payments to contractors. They anticipated, and would be appropriate candidates
for, the FUMAC-P pilot being launched under the RPAP. Enthusiasm for FUMAC
translated in Maranhao (and Paraiba) into "FUMAC-like" councils in formerly PAC
municipalities with local priorities being discussed and joint decisions being made on
subprojects for submission to the TUs. Further, Maranhao also pioneered the preparation
of municipal development plans in NRDP municipalities, employing TA from IICA and the
TU. The output of a collaborative effort involving local government and civil society, the
plans represented a major learning opportunity to analyze local potential and constraints,
identify priorities and possible sources of funding (including the NRDP).
62.   Amerindian Councils. A notable achievement was the establishing of an
indigenous peoples' FUMAC Council in Barra do Corda comprising representatives of
various ethnic groups living in FUNAI-demarcated reserves under conditions of extreme
poverty and subject to continuous conflicts over land with squatters, loggers and cattle
ranchers. The level of autonomy, organization, discipline and performance was
remarkably good. The Council endorsed and submitted to the TU some 35 community
subprojects divided about equally between infrastructure and productive investments.
Only four of these proposals were approved for financing before Closing due to the
slowness of the TU and the logistics of traveling to the Amerindian areas.
63.   Also on behalf of indigenous communities, the NRDP financed under PAC, 24
subprojects benefiting about 8,000 people in the poorest villages of the Guajajara nation.
Manioc mills, housing improvements and small irrigation subprojects are being
implemented and operated under full control of the Amerindian associations who contract
their own TA for the irrigation schemes. Concrete steps were also taken to settle conflicts
at the Cana Brava-Guajajara Indian Reserve which had caused numerous deaths. The
State expropriated an area of 4,000 ha for the settlement of 400 families, former
occupants of the reserve, and provided basic services (electricity and water supply). The
NRDP financed three complementary subprojects in the settlement area (small roads,
housing improvements, and community agricultural equipment) to support the settlement
and secure its sustainability.
64.   Environmental Protection. Achievements under the environmental component,
which was carried through into the post-reformulation period, were substantial and
included: establishing guard posts at strategic locations; education programs for local
populations; reforestation of degraded areas; demarcation of an additional 300,000 ha as
an environmental preserve; and the successful resettlement of affected communities.



- 19 -
65.   At the time of reform)ilation, Maranhao had disbursed about US$22.8 million of
the original Loan of US$84.0 million. The annual rate of disbursement after 1994 showed
striking improvement at about US$28.0 million per year (rising from US$1.3 million in
1993 to US$30.0 million in 1996). The strong state commitment, and willingness of many
municipalities to share counterpart funding in spite of the chronic fiscal crisis, explains this
performance. Final disbursement amounted to US$80.2 million and cancellation of some
US$3.8 million is pending, the result of poor disbursement performance up to 1993. The
project financed some 3,065 community subprojects (also about 1,400 more than the
target at reformulation), benefiting about 324,900 rural families including 2,100
Amerindian families in 135 municipalities (the entire state excluding the state capital).
Maranhao financed the highest number of subprojects in the entire NRDP, while numbers
of beneficiary families were four times greater than estimated at appraisal and ten times the
estimate at reformulation. Of these subprojects, 65% were for rural infrastructure, 30%
were community productive investments, and 5% were subprojects of a social nature.
66.   Subproject Investments. Ten major types of investments -- in which rural
infrastructure dominated -- accounted for over 90% of all subprojects approved in
Maranhao: (i) localized road rehabilitation, a subproject type not often seen outside the
state, accounted for 31% of investments, due to limited state and municipal resources for
basic infrastructure and its maintenance and the decrepit condition of rural access roads
statewide. Communities gain access to key services and opportunities through such
investments, which benefit many families: in this case 790 subprojects benefited some
114,110 families; (ii) rural electrification, universally prioritized across the Northeast for
its economic and social benefits, reached 95,800 families through 633 subprojects; (iii)
while Maranhao is largely untouched by drought, being outside the zone of vulnerability,
some parts of the state bordering on Piaui have scarce water resources. These subprojects
save labor and time, improve health and sanitation, and facilitate communal food
cultivation and better nutrition. Some 421 water supply investments benefited about
54,000 families; (iv) Maranhao being a dominant rice producer, rice mills using simple,
low cost equipment and materials, are in high demand. Some 140 rice mills benefited
about 9,800 families who market surplus production in local markets; (v) manioc mills
reduce processing costs for producing the staple flour and improve its quality. Some 80
mills benefited about 6,000 families and these ventures were successful in increasing local
production and incomes; (vi) investments in agricultural inputs for communal farms,
effectively substituting for formal credit to which small farmers lack access -- these
investments stabilized incomes during difficult periods but were not sustainable and
became ineligible under the project. In the interim some 142 campos agricolas were
implemented; (vii) clothes-making ventures, of which a group of 180 subprojects
sponsored by the State Government to stem high local unemployment and involving a
large number of community associations, constituted about 6% of all subprojects
approved in Maranhao. Their replication was stopped by the Bank in agreement with the
State because they were not evolving as originally envisaged and they were not adequately
participatory; (viii) some 132 farm tractors and implements were financed for collective
use by a total of 5,600 families; (ix) health-related house improvement benefited 4,800



- 20 -
families through 110 subprojects; and (x) some 32 day care centers benefited about 3,000
families, releasing mothers inter alia for income generation and education.
67.   Alagoas. The NRDP-Alagoas encountered a series of fiscal, institutional and
political difficulties. General mismanagement and political instability under several project
administrations negatively affected the program, causing Alagoas' performance to
compare unfavorably with that of the other states, and obscuring its achievements.
Counterpart funding shortages reduced momentum and virtually paralyzed project
execution in 1995. Project activities were being funded through Federal Treasury
advances but these were suspended because of the State's continued failure to meet its
counterpart funding obligations. The state unsuccessfully sought external funding to
resolve its counterpart funding situation.
68.   Despite significant handicaps, the project made tremendous physical and
institutional progress in the final year, attributed to: (i) strong support from the new State
Government, including through monetary incentives on an exceptional basis to TU staff to
compensate for delayed salaries; (ii) the personal commitment of the State Governor who
improved facilities, vehicles and equipment; (iii) strenuous though belated efforts by the
TU in the final year to straighten the project out, and improve its credibility in the
communities and convergence with established project guidelines; and (iv) accreditation of
some 62 municipal extension offices (EMATER) and two NGOs to mobilize communities
and provide TA. Motivated staff, good facilities and commitment to project objectives
boosted project performance. .
69.   Community demand for subprojects after reformulation was relatively modest,
partly because of poor information dissemination. The state only belatedly organized the
required publicity campaign at the Bank's repeated insistence, but its quality was not
optimal and political and other factors impeded expansion of FUMAC Councils. At
project completion, the absolute number of councils remained low. Even so, despite the
state's preference for PAC, more subprojects were financed per FUMAC municipality
than PAC. Moreover, there were community associations which managed to surmount
the political and managerial constraints, successfully preparing, often with EMATER
assistance, subproject proposals, getting them approved and undertaking O&M.
70.   FUMAC in Alagoas. The initial failure of FUMAC to take hold was the direct
result of political interference and the previous TU's aversion to this mechanism. Even the
few Councils established related poorly to the TU and to the communities they ostensibly
represented, lacked proper information about the program and had little idea about
prioritizing community choices. The result was a general disenchantment on the part of
the communities and the Councils with FUMAC. A new TU Coordinator was working
hard and, it appears, successfully in the final year, to reverse this situation by restructuring
or eliminating under-performing FUMAC Councils, and initiating a community training
and mobilization campaign to upgrade FUTMAC creation in the state.
71.   At the time of reformulation, Alagoas had disbursed US$10.6 million of the
original Loan of US$42.0 million. The fiscal and institutional crises severely limited



- 21 -
counterpart funding and annual disbursement after 1994 was less than US$4.0 million.
Nevertheless, comparing the two periods of project implementation, even in Alagoas,
disbursements roughly tripled following reformulation. Final disbursement amounted to
US$22.2 million and cancellation of a Loan balance of US$19.8 million (some 47% of the
Loan) is pending. The Federal Government denied the state's request to extend the
project Closing Date to the end of December 1996 because of its non-compliance with the
obligation to release some US$7.0 million in state counterpart funds by September 1996.
72.   The project financed 742 subprojects of which PAC were 683 (92%) and FUMAC
only 59 (8%), benefiting about 82,000 families in 57 municipalities, well over double the
original appraisal estimate and over four times the estimate at reformulation. However,
the number of completed subprojects was the lowest absolute amount under the
reformulated NRDP and reflected the constraints impeding the project. Of these
subprojects, some 62% were investments in small infrastructure, 29% were productive
subprojects and the remaining 9% were social subprojects. Investments totaled about
US$22.0 million and averaged US$267 per beneficiary family. Beneficiary contributions
were US$2.5 million. Even with its limitations, the project improved beneficiary income
and family well-being.
73.   Subproject Investments. Eight subproject types made up nearly 80% of all
subprojects approved in Alagoas: (i) accounting for over 42% of subprojects executed in
Alagoas, rural electrification benefited some 15,800 families through 286 subprojects,
(ii) to counteract the drought to which Alagoas is prone, some 96 water supply projects
(of which 66 were equipped with the desalinizer needed to reduce the salt content typical
of the state's groundwater), benefited 18,000 families, (iii) project financing set up 48
new manioc mills benefiting about 6,100 families; (iv) grain threshers are a popular
agricultural implement in Alagoas and 38 subprojects benefited about 4,000 families;
(v) the project invested in 22 communal tractors which benefited 4,300 families;
(vi) rural communities in Alagoas are starting to develop irrigation with NRDP-supported
infrastructure and equipment (kits) for small communal irrigation schemes. About 310
families are receiving benefits from four small-scale irrigation subprojects financed in
Alagoas, but technical and marketing problems have affected some of them;
(vii) community centers represented about 4% of all subprojects executed in Alagoas and
benefited 3,000 families through 25 subprojects; and (viii) ambulances were in strong
demand in Alagoas due to the lack of health services and distance from centers, but
because of political abuse of this type of subproject, the Bank and the State jointly
suspended their financing. Six ambulance subprojects were implemented.
Use of Consultants
74.   All three states depended at different times and for varying purposes on consultant
services. In the initial years, UNDP was contracted by SUDENE to provide TA to the
states for training and planning, through a core group of consultants stationed within that
agency. These contracts ended in 1990 and were not renewed. While the quality of
service provided was satisfactory, it did not equip SUDENE institutionally to deliver the



- 22 -
same services without UNDP assistance. Although contracted personnel were capable,
they did not leave behind a body of trained permanent staff. The follow-up contract with
IICA, again signed with SUDENE, stationed the consultants in each participating state.
Prior to the reformulation, almost all of these consultancies were associated with the
Water Resources component where consultant expertise was a key factor; few, if any,
worked on community organization, mobilization or other activities. The quality of
consultant services in this second phase was good or satisfactory.
75.   At reformulation, the umbrella IICA contract was replaced by individual
IICA/state contracts. The new project design required a dramatic change in the content of
technical assistance, away from water resources toward demand-driven, highly-
decentralized projects which, while operationally simpler in key respects nevertheless
required new skills (and attitudes) geared to beneficiary participation, mobilization and
organization. The Maranhao TU made extensive use of IICA consultants to improve its
technical capacity and given its small size, this assistance was crucial to ensuring a
reasonable standard of project implementation. In Paraiba the umbrella contract with
IICA played a limited role: contracting of short-term consultants for special studies,
project preparation and other tasks. Alagoas initially had no contract with IICA and its
overall use of consultants was negligible, but in the later stages of the project, a small
contract was signed with IICA for assistance in preparing a new project, which for fiscal
reasons is presently on hold.
Project Sustainability and Future Operations
76.   Sustainability. Final supervision missions in the three states worked to ensure
that decentralization and participation were deepened and expanded. State campaigns
sought to mobilize communities, disseminate information on the program, promote the
formation of project Municipal Councils and expand FUMAC (including paving the way
for the FUMAC-P approach) and to prepare standard subproject designs. Bank/FAO
evaluations found that beneficiary communities had a strong proprietary interest in their
investments from having selected and implemented them, and contributed, principally in
kind, to their cost. Their potential sustainability appears good. In the three states, and in
other states under the Program, many water supply subprojects initiated under the APCR
are still well-maintained with secure communal arrangements. Beneficiaries readily
commit to the operation and maintenance of their investments through up-front signature
of legally-binding agreements, while some associations have accumulated substantial
reserve funds to cover maintenance costs.26
77.   Nevertheless, at the beginning of the process, when the first productive subprojects
were implemented, the sustainability of some was uncertain (e.g., clothes-making,
bakeries, fruit processing, agricultural inputs). Even today, with the improved knowledge
base about individual types of subprojects, a small portion of them will always have
26    Brazil: Northeast Rural Development Program - Performance and Evaluation, World Bank/FAO,
March 14, 1996 and April 1997 (Draft).



- 23 -
uncertain sustainability. Contributing factors include inadequate technical and managerial
know-how, competition from large firms, the lack of organizational skills to market
production and because some products such as manioc have limited commercial potential.
Lack of beneficiary participation, and inadequate supervision and TA are also factors.
Corrections were introduced, including technical assistance throughout the subproject
cycle, and the new RPAP includes additional remedies for these deficiencies.
78.   Plans for Future Operations. The three states were not legally required to
prepare plans for future operations and no plans were drawn up. The same is true for
monitoring future operations of the projects. Nevertheless, prospects for maximizing
project benefits appear good. The States and their Governors are supporting policies and
actions which stress decentralized decision-making and project management.
Communities are signing O&M agreements and are setting up reserve funds, evidence of
intent to honor these arrangements. Ex-post evaluation studies such as those already done
in 1995, 1996 and 1997 (draft), are an important tool for monitoring the operational
phase of subprojects and for determining whether things were well done. Finally, the
RPAP flows straight on from the NRDP in each state and a diverse cohort of stakeholders
has a strong interest in ensuring sound operations.
Bank Performance
79.   The Bank has sought for several decades to improve the outcome and impact of
rural poverty programs in the Northeast. Until 1993 however, many design and
administrative problems and the macro-economic and fiscal context limited their potential.
Preparation and appraisal of the original projects showed a thoughtful attempt to innovate
and counter risk, but the framework, concept and mechanisms remained conceptually and
operationally traditional, the macro-economic and policy context was not given enough
attention, and undue faith was placed in the Federal Government's commitment to the
Program and willingness to find the funds, regardless of the economic circumstances.
Chronic shortages of counterpart funds usually indicate deficient commitment to project
objectives or that the project exceeds fiscal and/or institutional capacity. Realistically,
however, the Bank would have been clairvoyant to foresee the nature of certain events
which had such a powerful impact on these projects, especially after 1988. Appraisal, on
balance, was satisfactory, subject to certain caveats: lending pressures in the mid- I 980s
played a role; and evidence suggests the Bank accepted somewhat uncritically, the
capacities of institutions to carry out the projects, although it is also true that key federal
agencies had considerable technical capacity.
80.   The Bank's choice following the Mid-Term assessment was essentially to cancel
these projects or try to improve their impact and cost-effectiveness, a protracted dialogue
and design process which culminated in stripping away the IRD components, to focus fully
on a new mechanism and make it work. The period which elapsed prior to definitive
reformulation - seven years from effectiveness, is problematic. There was no mechanism
in the Bank for coming to quick closure on reformulation and no indications that either the



- 24 -
Bank or Borrower sensed any great urgency or had established a time frame for action.
This would be unlikely to occur in the "implementation culture" of today's Bank.
81.   Supervision timing up to reformulation was uneven and the supervision record is
incomplete, both in the Bank and in Recife. The main reason is that from 1989 onward,
these projects entered their period of poorest performance marked by an acute lack of
counterpart funds and institutional disarray. Increasing amounts of time were spent by
Bank and especially Recife Office staff visiting all ten northeast states to devise an
acceptable reformulation package, as opposed to carrying out formal supervision. This
became a protracted process when a second reformulation phase commenced.
Throughout this period, frequent informal contact including meetings, was maintained
with the states and their TUs, largely substituting for formal supervision. The quality of
supervision after reformulation was very high, marked by proactive engagement between
the Recife Task Managers, the Bank and the TUs to resolve financial, technical and
managerial problems.
82.   There is no doubt that timeliness -- the meshing of project design with the
changing political economy and national sentiment-- was a central factor in the successful
outcome of the reformulated projects, and this is a key lesson. Through the community-
based development model, the Bank has made (and continues to make) a major technical
contribution to Brazil based on its own and the Borrower's experience, launched a more
democratic process of rural poverty alleviation, but perhaps more important, as stated in
Bank/FAO evaluations, the main achievement of the reformulated projects has been to
support the decentralized allocation of resources and the creation of social capital in the
rural Northeast. Obviously, the dramatic shift did not imply that the rural poor no longer
needed credit, extension and other services or that smallholder agricultural production had
lost currency. Indeed, having gained confidence in the capacity of the community-based
investment mechanism to satisfy a range of basic needs, the Bank is now addressing
several critically important subsectors in the Northeast: market-based land reform,
integrated water management, and rural financial market development.
83.   The removal of public institutions from the development process at reformulation
was undoubtedly a reaction to the high proportion of Loan funds absorbed by
administrative costs pre-1993, and the dramatic shift to participatory, decentralized,
demand-driven investments where the communities themselves directly contract service
providers from the public or private sector. However, it did not signal abandonment by
the Bank of its traditional commitment to institution-building, which in this new model of
rural development occurs at the local level and covers a more diverse clientele, including
the Municipal Councils, community associations and NGOs. Moreover, at the time of
reformulation, separate projects were addressing institutional development in agricultural
research and extension.
84.   The World Bank Recife Office has been fundamental to the implementation and
supervision of the reformulated NRDP projects. Established in 1974, the Recife Office has
three task managers dedicated exclusively to working with the Northeastern states,
handling all supervision activities including procurement reviews and field visits. In this



- 25 -
manner, Bank support has been better tailored to the decentralized structure of the
reformulated Program. The Recife Office also updates and manages a global database, the
Simplified Project Monitoring System (SSMP) which provides detailed information on
these projects and serves as a monitoring tool both for the Bank and for the individual
state TUs.
Borrower Performance
85.   Economic, fiscal and political factors which came to a head in the latter part of the
1980s, steadily sapped the commitment of the Federal Government (as Borrower) to these
projects, reflected in the erratic and corrosive counterpart funding situation. In the post-
reformulation phase, with counterpart funding responsibilities transferred to the states, the
Federal government periodically delayed the release of loan funds and/or advances of
Federal (Treasury) funds to them, sometimes for political reasons but more often to
promote financial discipline in state performance. The states also periodically delayed the
release of resources to the associations even when federal Loan funds were available,
whether for fiscal, political or other reasons. Overall however, the Federal, State and
increasingly the Municipal Governments' willingness to support a radically new approach
to rural poverty alleviation was instrumental in the success of the reformulated projects.
86.   SUDENE performed well in several key areas: control over the use of Federal
funds; maintaining steadiness and regional uniformity in program strategy and objectives;
technical assistance (TA) for training; the provision of specialist consultants; and
continuous state and regional monitoring. However, SUDENE's overall ability to guide
and supervise was weak and its operational rigidity, stemming from excessively
bureaucratic systems and regulations, curbed the intended flexibility of the Program.
While TA had some successes in individual states, SUDENE itself absorbed little benefit
institutionally. SUDENE was overstaffed, but lacked sufficient trained personnel for its
role, which was sharply reduced under the reformulation as many of its responsibilities
devolved to the states. SUDENE's performance post-reformulation was satisfactory, and
it produced an insightful, timely Completion Report on behalf of the Federal Government.
87.   Technical Units. The role of the Technical Units was crucial to the success of
these projects, and more so post-reformulation when the participation of line agencies was
reduced and/or eliminated. The relative efficiency of the TUs depended on the availability
of qualified people, the material and financial deficiencies affecting their operations, and
the degree of administrative and financial independence from their parent State
Secretariats. All three TUs received TA for institutional development, contracted mostly
from international organizations.
88.   Under the original NRDP, while legally, technically and administratively quite
strong, the TUs lacked the political and fiscal power to influence the state implementing
agencies, particularly when fiscal circumstances prevented them from honoring their
funding commitments to these agencies. Their role devolved to drafting annual operating
plans, channeling funds to the agencies, and tracking expenditures and physical
implementation. They tended to be over-staffed, employing a large number of technical



- 26 -
specialists in keeping with the multi-sectoral nature of the projects pre-reformulation
(irrigation, credit, extension).
89.   In the post-reformulation phase, staffing of TUs was reduced convergent with the
reduced role of public agencies in the program and the simplification of the mechanism,
which now needed technicians with social and generalist skills. Specialist technical
expertise was contracted from various providers when needed (not always easy in rural
areas). In general, technical and managerial capacity improved after reformulation due to
the operational simplicity of the program, continuous training in community mobilization
skills and steadily accumulating experience.
90.   Principal constraints on TU effectiveness after reformulation were their inadequate
field presence and tendency to be concentrated in the state capital, and inadequate
subproject processing, supervision and monitoring capacity, particularly given the scale of
community demand. In the initial period following reformulation, TUs also tended to
assume responsibility for important steps of the subproject planning and implementation
cycle which sometimes inhibited community participation. While operationally much
simpler, these projects demanded new attitudes: decentralization, participation and
beneficiary empowerment were not easy concepts for many TUs to espouse and practice.
But, in this early transition period, their intervention could also facilitate the subproject
identification, selection and approval process in the absence of community leaders or
NGOs,"2 enhancing work content, substituting for non-performing agencies and improving
outcome. An assessment of the Technical Unit in each state, follows.
91.   Paraiba. The Paraiba TU proved itself technically and managerially competent,
and was relatively autonomous from the state planning secretariat. Genuinely committed
to decentralization and participation, the unit is headed by a dynamic Coordinator who has
worked closely with rural communities since NRDP inception and has spent most of her
career in the social sectors. Political interference -- except by the Governor in order to
head off such intervention in the TU -- was minimal. A large part of the technical team
(84 in total, distributed between the center and field offices) comprises women
agronomists, rural sociologists, engineers and other professionals. In addition to its
efficiency this TU has had good results mobilizing and organizing communities (reflected
in the exceptionally good performance of FUMAC Councils in Paraiba) and a high
proportion of the better-organized associations are headed by women. Owing to the
comparative inefficiency of the state EMATER and the lack of local NGOs operating in
rural areas, the TU had difficulty finding collaborative partnerships with other entities to
mobilize communities and train FUMAC Municipal Councils (MC) but was, over time,
able to involve municipal extension agents and some NGOs as technical assistance
providers. It nevertheless achieved good results, and many Municipal Councils in Paraiba
27    Comments on draft ICR by Sergipe State Technical Unit, PRONESE, October 2, 1996.



- 27 -
are increasingly capable of assuming the functions of the TU in subproject supervision and
monitoring.28
92.   Maranhao. While most state TUs have established field offices (albeit under-
staffed), Maranhao was a notable exception with a TU of 36 technicians (of which only 13
carry out field visits) and 22 administrative staff operating exclusively out of the state
capital. Given the large size of the state (333,000 kM2) and its agro-ecological diversity,
the TU was clearly too small. Staffing limitations and its deficient vehicles, equipment and
resource base impeded the TU from operationalizing its own rules for conducting field
investigations of potential subprojects before approving them, and for closely supervising
their implementation. Further, the formal structure of the TU inherited from the previous
administration was inadequate in terms of the working and operational relationships
between various sub-units and departments. Political interference in the subproject
approval process was fairly common throughout the election period of 1994/95, but
declined following changes in the unit. The performance of the TU improved over time,
particularly in: monitoring and supervision; provision of technical assistance to upgrade
productive subprojects; leveraging counterpart funding from the municipalities; in focusing
subproject investments in settlement areas using counterpart funding from the Land
Reform Institute (INCRA); and in fostering the participation of indigenous peoples. The
Maranhao TU had a strong record in establishing FUMAC Councils and in piloting
progressive measures.
93.   Alagoas. In the period immediately following reformulation, the Alagoas TU was
exceptionally weak: its performance was characterized by poor management, nepotism
and political interference, and lack of transparency in operating procedures and the use of
project funds. Its field operations suffered as a result of extremely low salaries for TU
professionals, lack of vehicles and little support from the state Government. Following the
elections of 1994 and a new state administration, the TU was re-structured and linked to
SEPLAN where it enjoyed significant autonomy. Staff were reduced from 110 to 50,
complemented by professionals seconded from other public agencies. Financial rewards
on an exceptional basis were offered to staff to promote adherence to project rules and
good performance, an incentive highly-valued as the state's fiscal crisis deepened in 1996
and the payment of staff salaries (and those of technicians collaborating with the TU,
including the very capable and successful state EMATER) became intermittent at best.
Working processes were re-defined; field visits to verify community proposals became
obligatory; costs were reduced by more careful scrutiny of subproject technical and
financial aspects; TU/beneficiary agreements were made public; and supervision and
monitoring were stepped up. Unprecedented efforts were made by the TU to mobilize and
train communities and disseminate information about the program, in the final year. These
efforts had begun to bear fruit when the project closed in September 1996.
94.   State Secretariats of Agriculture (SSA) controlled the NRDP up to reformulation.
The original NRDP was a secure and timely source of funding for their extension,
28    Bank/FAO Evaluation (Draft), 1997



- 28 -
research, marketing services and irrigation agencies, but this disappeared in 1993. The re-
designed NRDP left no room for their direct participation and in any case, assisted poor
rural communities, not only small farmers. It also transferred to communities the choice
and implementation of their own subprojects, including contracting TA, which in the case
of several states is provided by EMATER -- an agency of SSA -- but contracted locally by
the communities. There was (and remains) no objective reason for SSA involvement in
the program.
95.   Procurement. Prior to reformulation, no major problems were encountered with
procurement in these states. The major part of project resources, including counterpart
funds, was applied in small operational expenses by personnel of the executing agencies,
with no need for bidding procedures. In the case of irrigation works, bidding processes
were undertaken in Paraiba and Maranhao, monitored by Bank and FAO specialist staff.
Project reports refer only to interruptions in the works due to lack of resources.
96.   Post-reformulation procurement, in which small-scale contracts predominated, was
satisfactory all three states. Community associations proved adept, with little or no
assistance, at obtaining the best deal for project funds, following acceptable practices (i.e.,
local price quotation and minimum of three suppliers). Supervision missions did not
encounter any significant problems or anomalous situations involving procurement.
Neither the Technical Units, nor the beneficiary associations, had significant problems
interpreting Bank procurement guidelines. Small-scale, direct shopping and contracting
for goods and services by beneficiaries proved to be both monitorable and efficient:
associations obtained their needs more cheaply for the same quality, than those procured
by public entities (federal, state and municipal).
97.   In general, acquisitions were made directly by the associations. An agreement was
signed between the state (TU) and the association through which funds were transferred
to the association, which proceeded to acquire needed goods and services. The option
existed, however, of tripartite agreements between the TU, association and municipal
government. Approval of a community subproject was followed by signature of a
tripartite agreement under which the association asked the municipal government to
acquire goods and services on its behalf, the TU released the funds to the municipality,
which purchased the goods and/or services and transferred them to the association. By
doing this, the associations lost the opportunity to be more deeply involved in their own
subprojects, to learn how to handle procurement themselves and, to capture the cost
savings from purchasing on their own account at lower prices. Among the three states,
only Paraiba used the tripartite option and only in FUMAC municipalities. Its use is being
discouraged under the new RPAP projects.
98.   Audits. Auditing of project accounts was carried out by the Federal Government,
which tended to be late in submitting audits while the states tended to be good audit
performers. The quality of project auditing improved steadily over time, reflected,
ironically, in the number of qualified statements. Paraiba and Maranhao had a generally
good record of satisfactorily resolving problems raised in audit reports. Alagoas
however, perhaps because of the serious nature of the breaches detected, had a more



- 29 -
difficult task resolving them. Several instances of irregular application of Loan funds
came to light through STN's 1994 audit: subprojects with funds released but not
implemented; subprojects for the benefit of individuals; and subprojects for the acquisition
of trucks and ambulances which had not been devolved to the communities as their
property. These occurrences were infrequent, and the misuse of project funds by the
previous administration detected in that audit, resulted in judicial action in 1996.
99.   Covenant Compliance. The key legal covenants pre-reformulation concerned
the Borrower's obligation to provide counterpart funds, and to ensure proper functioning
of the rural credit component. The Borrower's performance was deficient in both cases.
A joint Aide Memoire of March 8, 1993 transferred counterpart funding responsibility to
the States. Performance was superior to the pre-reformulation phase and generally
satisfactory overall in Paraiba and Maranhao, but erratic and inadequate in Alagoas. The
credit component was discontinued.
Assessment of Outcome
100.  SARs for the original projects contain internal economic rates of return (IERR) for
the three states of 14%. It is implicit from the complete re-design of the projects in 1993
that they were unsatisfactory, and their IERRs have not been re-calculated. The Mid-
Term Review (1991) ofthe original projects noted that their impact on production,
income and employment was difficult to assess due to the lack of concrete evaluation
results, in spite of considerable effort to devise a methodology for evaluation studies.
Statistical data on inputs and beneficiaries in each state were considered unreliable due to
double-counting and overlap among years and components, but tended to confirm the
general shortfall in achievements up to reformulation.
101.  The reformulated projects fell under the rubric of targeted interventions based on a
demand-driven mechanism of which the costs, benefits and rates of return could not be
determined with any certainty, ex ante, and thus no IERRs were calculated (or
accordingly, re-calculated). While this report is technically exempt from re-estimating an
IERR, the results of the three major Bank/FAO evaluations of the Program are relevant
and interesting.29 These evaluations calculated the socio-economic benefits and cost
effectiveness of PAC/FUMAC subprojects based on a range of the more commonly
29     All three evaluations were undertaken as part of project preparation for new Loan packages under
the Rural Poverty Alleviation Program. The ranges provided are indicative only, given the
sampling nature of the analysis, the variations which exist between subprojects in terms of cost
and performance and, in the case of the 1995 evaluation, the short time between reformulation
and evaluation. The sampling methodology used for the 1996 and 1977 evaluation can be found
in Brazil: Northeast Rural Development Program-Performance and Evaluation, World
BanklFAO, March 14, 1996.



- 30 -
demanded infrastructure, productive and social investments.30 They are seen as primarily
illustrative given the relatively short time between reformulation and evaluation.
102.   In general, the analysis of sample subprojects surveyed in Paraiba and Maranhao
indicates that the NRDP has had positive effects on quality of life and in the case of
productive subprojects, on employment and incomes. Evaluations for these states show
that: (i) IRRs for productive subprojects (small-scale irrigation, small rumninants
production, forage grinders, rice and manioc flour mills) in most cases ranged from 12%
to over 50% in financial terms, and in economic terms from 37% to over 50%; (ii) in
terms of the sensitivity of the IRRs to the distorting effects of publicly-finded grants,
stemming from the costs associated with raising these funds (i.e., taxation), using the
shadow price of public funds reduced the respective IERRs but they remained significantly
positive and exceeded 14% in all cases, except one; and (iii) the initial investment per
additional job created was low and benefit/cost ratios were satisfactory (ranging between
1.3 and 5.0). The analyses assumed constant benefits over an eight- to ten-year project
life. While the economic cost of labor -- the most important input into smallholder
agriculture -- was very low due to severe unemployment, economic prices of outputs
which are produced in small quantities and with some exceptions, all traded internally,
were virtually the same as their financial prices.
103.   The 1996 and 1997 analyses of financial sustainability indicated that user fees from
beneficiary associations generally covered O&M and replacement of worn equipment.
Findings have been fairly uniform across the entire program, that the net income of
beneficiary associations is sufficient, after deducting all O&M expenses, to cover
replacement of the investment in a shorter period of time than its useful economic life.3'
104.  Both the original and reformulated projects were problematic, to varying degrees
and for different reasons, when it came to economic assessment, highlighting the need for
greater attention during project design, to baseline studies, and to monitoring and
evaluation methodologies. In particular, Borrowers' commitment and capacity to
undertake evaluation (which remains a weakness of Bank-financed projects) throughout
the project cycle, should be high on the checklist for project supervision.
30     The 1995 analysis (as agreed with Government) looked at all ten NRDP projects; the 1996
evaluation focused on the states of Rio Grande do Norte, Pernambuco and Piaui; and the latest
study (still in draft at this time) looked at experiences in Paraiba, Maranhao, Alagoas and Minas
Gerais.
31     The SUDENE report steers away from estimating income, production and job generation, citing
methodological difficulties and relies on interviews with association/community members
concerning subproject benefits: of the most-frequently-cited, employment and income generation
is ranked first, followed by better family nutrition, increased family production, and
transportation of production and people.



- 31 -
105.  Each of the three reformulated projects is rated Satisfactory, reflecting its
achievement of objectives, project sustainability and exit ratings in final supervision Forms
59032
Main Findings and Lessons Learned
106. Main Findings. This was a longer-term program, planned and implemented in a
complex and dynamic environment. Despite the effort to innovate and to head off
counterpart funding and other problems, the original projects were too cumbersome and
complex for the deteriorating fiscal, macro-economic and institutional conditions and were
not compatible with the changed national political economy after 1988, which demanded a
more decentralized, participatory project design. Thus, while the Bank could not control
the larger forces at play in Brazil, project design generated its own problems.
107.  The reformulated projects in the three states successfully achieved their objectives
because their design and implementation strategy fit the evolving political, economic and
social context. This legacy resulted from "revolutionary" decisions: (i) by the Bank, to
take a poverty alleviation approach, with all its implications of decentralization, grants,
ownership and participation, instead of a rural/agricultural development approach; and (ii)
by the Federal and State Governments, and the municipalities, to relinquish a significant
measure of political control by empowering rural communities and, more importantly, by
acknowledging the right and ability of the rural poor to establish their own priorities and
make decisions.
108.  Community-based development is not a "magic bullet" for poverty reduction in the
Northeast, which is why the Bank, having launched a significant process with measurable
impact on beneficiaries, is now turning its attention to other major constraints in the
sector. But beneficiaries themselves feel that the projects are generally delivering the
benefits they promised, unlike earlier efforts, and demand for such subproject investments
is strong. Modifications designed to address identified shortcomings have been
incorporated in the new generation of Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects. States and
municipalities have proven willing to make needed corrections.
109.  Grants. Grant-based investment in productive subprojects is a legitimate
mechanism for jump-starting capital accumulation by the rural poor, a process usually
limited by their inability to generate savings and gain access to the formal credit system.
Grants have made an important contribution to sustainable local development in the states
reviewed. Concerns about potentially inefficient investments and producers, are being
addressed. New projects under the RPAP contain design improvements to rationalize the
use of grants, including additional eligibility criteria and requirements for regulamentos de
32     The Alagoas project received an Unsatisfactory rating for Implementation Progress but was
assessed Satisfactory on Development Objectives owing to its having vastly exceeded targeted
beneficiaries even though the Loan under-disbursed, and the project's positive impact on those
beneficiaries.



- 32 -
uso for productive subprojects, that would help the FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal
Councils and the TUs in their appraisal of these subprojects.
1 10. PAC and FUMAC. FUMAC is more effective than PAC in important ways,
demonstrating a larger number of subprojects per municipality and beneficiaries per
subproject, greater community participation and transparency; improved community
capacity to identify, select and implement priority investments; and, lower cost per
beneficiary. The stronger institutional element, the Municipal Councils, has fostered
community organization and ensured a more rigorous subproject selection process and
thus better-quality investments overall. They are a vehicle which adapts well to
increasingly decentralized development, including outside the parameters of a Bank-
financed project. While it would be an exaggeration to claim that the FUMAC Municipal
Councils have changed the balance of power in the Northeast, they have already
contributed to effecting such change in the longer-term.
111.  Graduation. It may be necessary to progressively graduate some communities
and municipalities as the aggregate benefits of several subprojects (and benefits from
other programs) equip them to leverage funds from other sources. However, the
pervasiveness of rural poverty in the Northeast indicates the need for a strategy based on
practical, operational ways of identifying communities which are close to achieving this
status. Monitorable indicators might track: communities' access to credit and capacity to
save; adequacy of social and economic infrastructure; access to social and other services;
community organization and local capacity to manage funds; and incomes and
nutritional/health status. Communities with superior ratings might progressively
contribute a higher percentage to, and eventually cease to be eligible for, project matching
grants.
112.  Environment. The environmental impact of the generally small-scale PAC and
FUMAC subprojects was insignificant, but certain kinds of subprojects are more likely to
have environmental side-effects, e.g., the sludge from manioc processing, a situation
which is well-known and for which counter-measures have been in place, even since the
APCR component.
113.  Participation. While providing a forum for local decision-making, the FUMAC
municipal councils remain sensitive to political interference from local power groups,
especially the mayors, (but the PACs are even more vulnerable). While vigilance is needed
to combat such political tampering, many mayors are working closely with the Councils
for legitimate community ends. There are benefits from local political involvement,
including sustaining the projects' decentralized implementation (MIT 1996). Local
governments are committing financial and institutional resources to approved community
subprojects, even though neither PAC nor FUMAC legally requires this, and even
adopting the FUMAC approach to decision-making for other municipal investments.
PAC's primary justification at this point is to allow associations in communities where the
political leadership opposes FUMAC, to bypass the municipal authorities and work
directly with the state TUs, but there are limitations on its use, which is seen as residual.



- 33 -
114.  Productive Subprojects. Productive subprojects destined for communal use,
such as manioc mills, corn processing and rice crushing facilities, demonstrate good
sustainability perhaps because they provide a service to subproject beneficiaries themselves
and do not get involved in formal production per se. Their maintenance through the
payment of modest dues, is quite straightforward. However, other types such as
community bakeries, clothes-making enterprises and poultry-raising have experienced
sustainability problems after a certain period of operation, apparently related to the
inherent difficulties for rural community associations in managing investments requiring
more formal entrepreneurial skills, not commonly found among such groups. In general,
association leaders are more adept at social activities which foster solidarity, rather than
commercial business activities requiring purchasing, processing and marketing skills, and
an understanding of management and profitability. Approval of such subprojects -- which
often benefit a small group within the community -- requires considerable caution and
should entail a measure of cost recovery for the sponsoring association.
115.  Technical Assistance. Project funding for TA does not ensure its availability in
rural areas. Resourcefulness is needed to obtain TA for the many aspects of the
subproject cycle which require it. The over-design of subprojects and insufficient TA have
led to marked divergence in the size, cost, quality and sustainability of similar investments.
Over-design and poor quality design can be mitigated by developing standard designs and
technical standards. This activity was stressed by the states in the final year, especially to
prepare for new projects under the RPAP. Finally, under the reformulated projects, TA
funding was tied to subproject approval, non-approval meant associations still had to pay
out of their own pockets for the TA used in preparation of the proposal, a potent source
of frustration for poor communities, and one which has been resolved under the RPAP.
116.  Organization. Well-organized rural communities can influence the allocation and
use of municipal funds. Experience in many NRDP states shows that about 10% of all
associations, especially those with an organizational history and well-established
distribution of responsibilities and benefits, fared better in getting first access to
subprojects and obtaining more than one subproject (SUDENE 1996). The cumulative
benefits (and multiplier effects) have accelerated local development and raised the issue of
graduation from the program. Concentration of investments or logistical limitations of the
TUs meant many communities were not reached. Many associations were rapidly and
legally/bureaucratically organized in 1993/94 to access project funds, but lacked the
"glue" of having evolved consensually over time. But it is not clear that permanence
should be a paradigm. The demands of subproject identification, execution and
maintenance are considerable and risks are attached to the on-the-job stage, i.e., when
"organized" communities must operate and maintain an investment on their own and it is
shared objectives which bind them together. Sequential mobilization, organization and
training of communities as a prerequisite for receiving project funds cannot guarantee that
an association will perform well and/or stay together.
117.  Integration. These projects did not attempt to integrate small farmers (pre-
reformulation) and the rural poor (post-reformulation) into the more dynamic economy of
the region, or to restructure semi-arid agriculture, nor have they sought integration with



- 34 -
other Northeast rural poverty programs. Raising small farmers' productivity by financing
inputs including water was an initial, basic step, but the projects did not target specific
crops, and anticipated fairly traditional cropping patterns.33 In any case, many small
farmers chose to stay with their subsistence crops rather than access project-financed
credit lines in an inflationary economy. The reformulated projects funded collective
investments in agro-processing rather than production and cases of major transformation
of formerly subsistence crops or a low income activity into an item with strong
commercial potential. Nevertheless, the provision of start-up capital, water, electricity and
other inputs including TA, has opened the door to future economic integration.
118.  Lessons Learned. The lessons, substantiating Bank-wide experience in many
cases, are as follows:
(a)    Most RD projects will falter under severe macro-economic and fiscal
pressures, and a policy environment unfavorable to agriculture;
(b)    When a program strategy and project design is overtaken by events which
make it redundant, the Bank should be willing to undertake promptly
the needed changes including complete reformulation if necessary,
enabling it to succeed in the new circumstances;
(c)    The willingness to experiment benefits projects Bank-wide. The
reformulated projects were scaled up from a successful pilot experience
(APCR), and have continued to pilot more progressive variants of the core
model, including under the follow-up RPAP;
(d)    Grant-based investment is a legitimate and effective tool for jump-
starting capital accumulation by the rural poor, and the matching grant
approach can contribute to sustainable local development;
(e)    Decentralization of fiscal and investment decision-making from Federal to
state and local government and beneficiaries improves project
administration and subproject quality. This process needs clearly-defined
operational incentives and penalties to counter departures from project
guidelines. A major component of decentalization, beneficiary
participation in subproject selection, implementation, financing and
supervision generates "ownership" and promotes sustainability. Vigilance
and appropriate controls are needed to prevent political interference in the
participatory process;
(f)    Poverty targeting mechanisms should be simple, explicit and
monitorable; be based on objective criteria; foster transparency and
minimize political interference in project resource allocation and subproject
33.    They did, however, assume quite dramatic production increases in some crops on the basis of
pasture conversion and greater area, combined with project inputs.



- 35 -
selection; ensure that project resources reach the poorest communities.
Timely, well-designed information campaigns which ensure transparency
and a proper knowledge among stakeholders of program objectives, rules
and access, can bolster the targeting process and prevent political or
commercial manipulation;
(g)   Sustainability of project investments is enhanced by municipal and
community cost-sharing, beneficiary involvement in local public investment
allocations, and when TA is provided throughout the subproject cycle
including the operational phase,
(h)   Successful community-based investment requires quality technical
assistance throughout the subproject cycle for: improving the genesis
and outcome of productive subprojects; community mobilization,
organization and skills development; and institutional development of the
TU. "On the job" training for communities is equally valuable but not risk-
free. Finding TA in rural areas requires creativity;
(i)    Supervision is indispensable for subproject and overall project success and
should be strengthened, and involve local entities closest to the
communities, particularly Municipal Councils and NGOs;
()    Productive subprojects need rigorous selection, preparation, TA and
supervision to maximize their commercial potential and sustainability.
Their inherent social objectives in a poverty context should not imply
"softer" analysis of their rates of return, cost-effectiveness and feasibility.
Eligible productive investments should maximise beneficiary coverage, be
subject to strict operational guidelines, and ensure the collection of user
fees for O&M,
(k)   Related to the above, project design should pay careful attention to
baseline studies as the springboard for well-designed monitoring and
evaluation and for ex post assessments of the economic and financial
rates of return of a range of productive subprojects. Accessible,
comprehensive monitoring and evaluation improves subproject
assessment, targeting and efficiency and is an essential planning and
management tool;
(I)    Standardization of documents, designs and unit costs simplifies
subproject preparation and evaluation, facilitates procurement, encourages
community participation, prevents faulty design and reduces processing
bottlenecks; and
(m)   Dissemination of "best practices", such as the FUMAC councils in
Paraiba, the preparation of municipal development plans in Maranhao,
collaboration with the state EMATER in Minas Gerais and Alagoas and



- 36 -
with NGOs in Rio Grande do Norte34, through exchanges of information
among Technical Units, at training seminars and workshops, can hasten
learning and reward innovation; and
(n)    Graduation of some communities may be necessary as the aggregate
benefits of several subprojects equip them to leverage funds from other
sources. The pervasiveness of rural poverty in the Northeast indicates the
need to find practical, operational ways of identifying and monitoring
communities which are close to achieving this status.
34
For a description of these and other experiences, see ICR No. 16191 of December 20, 1996 on
NRDP projects in Sergipe, Rio Grande do Norte, Bahia and Ceara; and ICR (forthcoming) on the
Pernambuco, Piaui and Minas Gerais projects.



- 37 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
PART HI: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
PARAIBA PROJECT (Ln. 2860-BR)
Pre-Reformulation                             Post-Reformulation and Summary Assessment'
A.  Achievement of Obiectives                                                        Not                                                        Not
Substantial    Partial    Negligible   applicable          Substantial    Partial    Negligible   applicable
Macro Policies                             7] El                  El                                El           E           E
Sector Policies                          E7 E                     E             W                   E            E           E            [
Financial Objectives 2                    0            W             l          El                               E            El 
Institutional Development 3               0]                                    El                     l         E            El           K]7
Physical Objectives                      E            E            Z            E                    E           E            E              ]
Poverty Reduction4                       E            El           E            E                   El           E            E            E
Gender Issues                               l        El           El           [                                 E               l        E
Other Social Objectives                  El                          l          El                                  l         E            E
Environmental Objectives                    l            l         El                                  l         E            El 
Public Sector Management                  El1]                                                       E7           E           E            El
Private Sector Development                El          El           El                                            E               l         E
Post-reformulation ratings equate to summary assessments.
2 Credit Component
3 Strengthening of technical unit.
4 Mainly through the APCR component, up to 1993.



- 38 -
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
PARAIBA PROJECT (Ln. 2860-BR) - Continued
Pre-Reformulation                            Post-Reformulation and Summary Assessments'
B.  Project Sustainability                 Likely         Unlikely        Uncertain                   Likely          Unlikely       Uncertain
C.  Bank Performance                       Highly                                                     Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient                 Satisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficient
(/)         (/~~)          0(/)                          )()()
Appraisal                             [                [                  ]                       L               L3              [
Supervision                           E                En              E                          L               En              L
Implementation (NA)                    E               L                E                          E               I               E
D.  Borrower Performance                   Highly                                                     Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient                 Satisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficient
(/)        ~~~(_1)         (V)                         0(/)           (V)              0/)
Preparation                               n               n               n                          n            En 
Implementation                         EEE                                                         E               En              En
Covenant Compliance                       n            En                                                         En               En
E.  Assessment of Outcome       Highly                                      Highly             Highly                                       Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory    Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
Post-refo ao ratings equate tos) s n  f  p)                                                   ) p
Post-reforrnulation ratings equate to sununary assessmnents of the entire project.



- 39 -
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
MARANHAO (Ln. 2862-BR)
Pre-Reformulation                            Post-Reformulation and Summary Assessments I
A.  Achievement of Obiectives                                                        Not                                                        Not
Substantial    Partial    Negligible   applicable          Substantial    Partial    Negligible   applicable
Macro Policies                                                    LI]           W                                [I]                      L  ]
Sector Policies                                         l                                                                                 LIII
Financial Objectives 2                               lii                       LII                  [I]
Institutional Development 3                                       LI]                               [II]         [                        LI]
Physical Objectives                                  ill                                            LII]         [I                       [II
Poverty Reduction 4                                               [17 [                             [                                     LI]
Gender Issues                                                                                       LI           LI] 
Other Social Objectives                               LI]                                           LI]                                    ii]
Environmental Objectives                             [I]          [I]          [I                   LI                                      W 
Public Sector Management                                                        W                   L]           LII]
Private Sector Development                            [                                               W F 7 I
1 Post-reformulation ratings equate to summary assessments.
2 Credit Component
3 Strengthening of technical unit.
4 Mainly through the APCR component, up to 1993.



- 40 -
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
MARANHAO (Ln. 2862-BR) - Continued
Pre-Reformulation                            Post-Reformulation and Summary Assessments t
B.  Proiect Sustainability                Likely          Unlikely       Uncertain                   Likely         Unlikely       Uncertain
(/)   (/)        (e                        (/~~~~~~~~~~00)  0(/)             )
C.  Bank Performance                      Highly                                                     Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory      Deficient                Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
Appraisal                               F] 71                                                                    [               II]
Supervision                                           FI                                                         [7]
Implementation (NA)                   [               [                L                             ]             W
D.  Borrower Performance                  Highly                                                     Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient                Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation                                                                                                      ED [  L  L      LI]
Implementation                        []L ]                                                                      [7              LI]
Covenant Compliance                                                   [                          [     m7]                       LI]
E.  Assessment of Outcome      Highly                                       Highly            Highly                                      Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory   Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
Post-refonation rating       (euate to) su(ery assessments of) the(entvre)project
Post-reformulation ratings equate to summary assessments of the entire project.



- 41 -
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
ALAGOAS PROJECT (Ln. 2863-BR)
Pre-Reformulation                            Post-Reformulation and Summary Assessments1
A.  Achievement of Obiectives                                                       Not                                                         Not
Substantial    Partial    Negligible   applicable          Substantial   Partial    Negligible   applicable
Macro Policies                            Fl]                                  11                   [1           LI          L            L
Sector Policies                                                                E7 [     [1          [            [1          L            E
Financial Objectives 2                                 7]         [            L                     171]        L           L  
Institutional Development                [[                       [1]          L                    [7           []          [            L
Physical Objectives                      [31         L            L            L                    [             Z          L  
Poverty Reduction4                       [0          []             I          [                       ]         LI          [  
Gender Issues                            [                                     []                     I           71]        L  
Other Social Objectives                     ]           I            I         [I                    7           L            L 
Environmental Objectives                 [            L           L            [1                     I          [           L            L
Public Sector Management                    ]         L           L            L                    []           [           L            L
Private Sector Development                  I         LI]          LI                                               I         L            L
I Post-reformulation ratings equate to summary assessments.
2 Credit Component
3 Regional Agricultural Research component to strengthen production oriented research in the Northeast, including inter-agency coordination; and institutional development of
the Brazilian Food Company (COBAL) and State Food Company (EBAL).
4 Mainly through the APCR component, up to 1993.



- 42 -
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
ALAGOAS PROJECT (Ln. 2863-BR) - Continued
Pre-Reformulation                            Post-Reformulation and Summary Assessments 1
B.  Project Sustainability                 Likely         Unlikely        Uncertain                   Likely          Unlikely       Uncertain
E]~~[I G                                                           LZ CCIzZ
C.  Bank Performance                       Highly                                                     Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient                 Satisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficient
(V)      )       (              (, )                       (e)                             V) (
Appraisal                                              [I]                                                        [7              LIZ 
Supervision                                               ]                                           ]            W              [I]
Implementation (NA)                                    L                                          L                 W              LIII
D.  Borrower Performance                   Highly                                                     Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient                 Satisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficient
(/)     (/)             (/~~~~0)                   (V )                            (
Preparation                                               ]            L                          [I I            FZ
Implementation                                         liZ                                                        [ ]              LIZ-C
Covenant Compliance                                    LIZ  m                                                     III]
E.  Assessment of Outcome       Highly                                       Highly            Highly                                       Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory   Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
P e) o r) ri  ea                                               (e (to sm)  (a
Post-refoninulation ratings equate to sumrnary assessments of the entire project.



- 43 -
TABLE 2. RELATED BANK LOANS
PARAIBA PROJECT (Ln. 2860-BR)
Project Title/                  Purpose              Year         Status
Loan No.                                        Approved
1. Northeast Region Land Tenure   To improve land tenure and  1986     Cancelled due
Improvement Project           the legal and institutional           to institutional
(Ln. 2593-BR)                 basis of land markets in the           and policy
Northeast.                            obstacles.
2. Paraiba Rural Development    To improve the incomes and    1978     Closed 1986
Project (Ln. 1537-BR)         living standards of small
farm families.
MARANHAO PROJECT (Ln. 2862-BR)
Project Title/                  Purpose               Year          Status
Loan No.                                         Approved
1. Northeast Region Land Tenure   To improve land tenure and   1986     Cancelled due to
Improvement Project           the legal and institutional             institutional and
(Ln. 2593-BR)                 basis of land markets in the            policy obstacles.
Northeast.
2. Maranhao Rural Development   To increase income and         1982      Closed 1988
Project (Ln. 2177-BR)         agricultural production of
about 39,000 small farmers
in the central and
northwestern parts of the
State.
ALAGOAS PROJECT (Ln. 2863-BR)
Project Title/                  Purpose               Year          Status
Loan No.                                         Approved
1. Northeast Region Land Tenure   To improve land tenure and   1986      Cancelled due to
Improvement Project           the legal and institutional             institutional and
(Ln. 2593-BR)                 basis of land markets in the            policy obstacles.
Northeast.



- 44 -
TABLE 3. PROJECT TIMETABLE
PARAIBA PROJECT (Ln. 2860-BR)
Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle               Date Planned          Latest Estimate
Identification                                      --            1984
Preparation                                         --            1984-1986
Appraisal                                           --            December 1986
Negotiations                                        --            May 13, 1987
Board Presentation                                  --            June 30, 1987
Loan Signing                                        --            July 20, 1987
Loan Effectiveness                        November 1987           October 15, 1987
Loan Closing                              March 31, 1996          December 31, 1996
Project Completion                        September 30, 1995      December 31, 1996
MARANHAO PROJECT (Ln. 2862-BR)
Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle               Date Planned          Latest Estimate
Identification                                      --            1984
Preparation                                         --            1984-1985
Appraisal                                           --            November 1985
Negotiations                                        --            May 13, 1987
Board Presentation                                  --            June 30, 1987
Loan Signing                                        --            July 20, 1987
Loan Effectiveness                        November 1987           December 18, 1987
Loan Closing                              March 31, 1996          December 31, 1996
Project Completion                        September 30, 1995      December 31, 1996



- 45 -
TABLE 3. PROJECT TIMETABLE
ALAGOAS PROJECT (Ln. 2863-BR)
Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned          Latest Estimate
Identification                                     --             1984
Preparation                                         --            1984-1986
Appraisal                                          --            December 1986
Negotiations                                        --           May 13, 1987
Board Presentation                                 --            June 30, 1987
Loan Signing                                        --           July 20, 1987
Loan Effectiveness                       November 1987           October 19, 1987
Loan Closing                             March 31, 1996          September 30, 1996
Project Completion                       September 30, 1995      September 30, 1996



- 46 -
TABLE 4. LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ Million)
PARAIBA PROJECT (Ln. 2860-BR)
Fiscal Year         Appraisal Estimate            Actual          Actual as % of
Estimate
1988                    4.8                     5.2                108
1989                    9.6                     7.1                 74
1990                   18.0                    10.9                 60
1991                   27.0                    18.7                 69
1992                   37.2                    20.3                 54
1993                   46.8                    23.9                 51
1994                   52.8                    26.6                 50
1995                   57.6                    29.8                 52
1996                   60.0                    42.9                 72
1997                   60.0                    59.4                 99
Final Disbursement:   May 19, 1997
An estimated balance of US$0.6 million will be canceled.
MARANHAO PROJECT (Ln. 2862-BR)
Fiscal Year         Appraisal Estimate            Actual          Actual as % of
Estimate
1988                    6.3                     5.2                 83
1989                    14.0                    6.4                 46
1990                   24.5                    11.6                 47
1991                   36.7                    21.5                  59
1992                   50.7                    22.4                 44
1993                   64.2                    24.9                  39
1994                   74.2                    25.9                 35
1995                   81.2                    32.4                 40
1996                   84.0                    44.6                 53
1997                   84.0                    80.2'                95
Final Disbursement:   May 13, 1997
1 An estimated balance of US$3.8 million will be canceled.



- 47 -
TABLE 4. LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ Million)
ALAGOAS PROJECT (Ln. 2863-BR)
Fiscal Year         Appraisal Estimate             Actual           Actual as % of
Estimate
1988                      3.4                     3.5                 104
1989                      6.7                     6.4                  96
1990                     12.6                     7.7                  61
1991                     18.9                    10.1                  53
1992                     26.0                    10.7                  41
1993                     32.8                    12.5                  38
1994                     37.0                    13.0                  35
1995                     40.4                    15.5                  38
1996                     42.0                    15.8                  38
1997                     42.0                    22.2                  53
Final Disbursement:   February 4, 1997
An estimated balance of US$19.8 million will be canceled.



- 48 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
PARAIBA PROJECT (Ln. 2860-BR)
A. Pre-Reformulation I
Disbursements at reformulation were about 36% of the loan. 2 The unsatisfactory
project funding situation remained the principle obstacle hindering implementation.
Achievements under the main components were (with percentage of appraisal target
shown in parentheses): (i) Water Resources: feasibility studies and engineering designs on
the irrigation potential of areas covering 7,500 ha (100%); construction of 6 public
irrigation schemes providing 421 ha with irrigation (15%); construction and rehabilitation
of 100 simple water supply systems (9 1%) in communities with less than 500 inhabitants,
improvement of an existing fish hatchery to reach a total annual production of 93,000
fingerlings (2%); and provision of technical assistance on fishery operation to about 2,100
fishermen and farmers (280%); (ii) Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production:
completion of 5 agro-ecological and natural resource studies (167%); 52 short- and
medium-term applied research trials (29%) to improve crop production technology;
establishment and monitoring of one observation farm (3%) to test and adapt integrated
production systems; and the production of 150 tons of seeds per year (300%), including
maize, castor beans, cotton, sorghum and rice; (iii) Rural Extension Services: technical
assistance was delivered to 33,600 project beneficiaries (89%); 50 demonstration plots per
year were established (33%); and 16,500 tree seedlings were produced (3%) to implement
a small-scale forestry project; (iv) Agricultural Credit: a program of medium- and long-
term credit was established for beneficiaries to finance on-farm investments; and
(v) Marketing Services: market information and commercial orientation services were
established but the record does not report on their quality or substainability.
State provided pre-reformulation data/achievements in the form shown, which was not directly
comparable with original indicator list.
2 Effective date of the reformulation was September 28, 1993.



- 49 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
PARAIBA PROJECT (Ln. 2860-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
INDICATOR               OPERATIONAL CRIERIA                          COMMENTS
INPUTS       PAC/FUMAC        State Technical Units   Training seminars for TUs and for NGOs have  Done.
(TUs) and Non-          been held in the state by July 31, 1993, and
Governmental            updating workshops held by each July 31
Organizations (NGOs)    thereafter, under TOR agreed with the Bank.
trained in rules and
procedures.
PAC/FUMAC       Technical               Prepared by June 30, 1993 in agreement with the   Done.
Implementation Manual.  Bank on the basis of the March 12, 1993
"Diretrizes e Criterios Basicos para a
Implementacao do Programa Reformulado de
Apoio ao Pequeno Produtor Rural (PAPP)".
PAC/FUMAC       Publicity.              Publicity campaign proposal submitted to Bank    Done.
by June 30, 1993, and campaign initiated in the
state by Sept. 1, 1993 and thereafter
implemented as agreed with the Bank.
PAC/FUMAC       Current situation of    Baseline study of sample communities regionally   Done.
target communities and    distributed in the state and pilot municipalities
pilot municipalities.   completed by Sept. 30, 1993.
PAC/FUMAC       Mobilizations           List of NGOs and other agencies to assist    Done.
assistance.             communities in mobilization and organization is
available in the state by June 15, 1993 and
updated annually thereafter.
PAC/FUMAC       Technical assistance.   List of suitable individuals, firms, agencies and    Partially done.
NGOs to assist communities in technical aspects
is available in the state by June 15, 1993 and
. updated annually thereafter.
FUMAC ONLY   A municipal council        Documentation certifying existence and       Done.
with appropriate       functioning of municipal council available from
representation has been   each pilot municipality is available and verified
established and is      by TUs, by Sept. 30, 1993.
functioning each pilot
municipality.
PAC/FUMAC       State and Loan Funds    At beginning of each month, sufficient funds
for approved projects are  from state budget and from Loan state project
available in a timely   account to cover new approved subprojects, and    Done.
manner to communities.   available to communities in a timely manner, as
reported monthly to the Bank and SUDENE.
PAC/FUMAC       Community counterpart   Signed agreements with executing             Done.
funds or resources for  community/association explicit including
approved projects.     community's contribution to subproject cost.
1/ PAC: Programa de Apoio ComunitArio (Support to Small Rural Communities Program)
FUMAC: Fundo Municipal de Apoio Comunitario (Pilot Municipal Fund Program for Support to Small Rural Communities).



- 50 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
PARAIBA PROJECT (Ln. 2860-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
(Continued)
INDICATOR             J OPERATIONAL CRITERIA                         COMMENTS
INPUTS       PAC/FUMAC        Supervision.            At least 10% of approved subprojects have been    Done.
(Continued)                                           inspected in the field by TU at any point in time.
PAC/FUMAC       Administration.          TUs are adequately staffed, both at state    Done.
headquarters and in field offices, with capacity to
receive, appraise, approve and supervise
subprojects, and to facilitate private and public
assistance to communities, by July 31; staffing
increased as necessary to expanding work
requirements.
RESULTS    PAC/FUMAC          Communities aware of    Subproject proposals are being presented by   Done.
and informed about      communities in at least 70% of eligible
program, rules and      municipalities (PAC and FUMAC) by Dec. 31,
procedures.             1993, and 90% by Dec. 31, 1994.
FUMAC ONLY   Open municipal council   TUs and/or supervision missions witness or are    Done.
meetings to discuss and   reliably informed about such meetings being
agree on municipal list    held, in all pilot municipalities.
of priority subprojects
have been held.
FUMAC ONLY   Municipal investment        At least 90% of pilot municipalities have    Done.
proposals are received,    submitted such proposals by Dec. 31, 1993.
based on community
priorities and approved
by municipal councils.
PAC ONLY         Subproject proposals are   At least 100 of such subproject proposals  Done as
received and approved   approved by Dec. 31, 1993; and cumulatively  scheduled.
based on community      250 by June 30, 1994; 500 by June 30, 1995 and
requests.               920 by project completion.
PAC/FUMAC       Number of families       At least 2,500 families benefited with approved    Done.
directly benefited.     projects by Dec. 31, 1993; 6,200 by June 30,
1994; 12,500 by June 30, 1995 and 23,000 by
project completion.
PAC/FUMAC       Subprojects approved by   At least 85% of subprojects visited by Bank and    Done.
TU are eligible,        SUDENE of those listed in monthly reports
technically and         comply with criteria.
economically sound, and
from eligible
communities.
PAC/FUMAC       Subprojects are          Adherence to specifications, cost and time in  Done.
implemented as          85% of cases in a random sample of 50
approved, with cost and   subprojects in the state to be completed by June
time.                   30 of each year starting in 1994.



- 51 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
PARAIBA PROJECT (Ln. 2860-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
(Continued)
INDICATOR             [OPERATIONAL CRITERIA                          COMMENTS
RESULTS    PAC/FUMAC          Funds used only for     No evidence of misuse of funds in at least 95%  Done.
(Continued)                   approved subprojects.    of cases, in a random sample of 50 subprojects,
subjected to audit by June 30 of each year
starting in 1994.
(MOACT       PAC/FUMAC        Expressed community      Two-thirds of beneficiaries in sample        Done.
(ObJectives)                  need are satisfied.      communities are satisfied with the subproject
implemented, its design and their own role
(identification, design, implementation, control)
in the process.
PAC/FUMAC       Projected employment    Employment targets in 80% of sample productive  Partially done.
generated (productive   subprojects have been reached one year after
subprojects only)       establishment.
PAC/FUMAC       Projected incremental    In 80% of sample productive subprojects the  Done.
income realized by      projected incremental income has been realized,
beneficiaries.          or an absolute income level of at least 2.5
minimum salaries has been reached, one and a
half years after establishment.
PAC/FUMAC       Subprojects sustained by   80% of subprojects are being operated and/or  Done.
community and/or        maintained, one and a half year after
municipality over time.   establishment.
FUMAC            Transparent and         A majority a random sample of the target     Done.
ONLY            participatory municipal    population in participating municipalities
decision-making process  expresses to be satisfied with the municipal
for investments is      decision-making process, in at least 75% of those
adopted.                municipalities.
PAC/FUMAC        Organized community     At least 50% of the participating communities in   Complied
pursuing further        pilot municipalities remain organized and are  with.
communal development   engaged in further communal pursuits, of any
interests.              kind.



- 52 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
MARANHAO PROJECT (Ln. 2862-BR)
A. Pre-Reformulation I
Disbursements at reformulation were about 27% of the loan.2 Delays resulted
mainly from shortfalls and irregularities in the provision of counterpart funds.
Achievements under the main components were (with percentage of appraisal target
shown in parentheses): (i) Water Resources: feasibility studies on the irrigation potential
of areas covering 1,000 ha (51%); construction of one public irrigation scheme providing
200 ha with irrigation (26%); construction of 100 simple water supply systems (39%) in
communities with less than 500 inhabitants; and provision of technical assistance to reach
6,400 inland fishermen (100%); (ii) Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production: 80
short- and medium-term applied research trials (93%) to improve crop production
technology; establishment of 150 simple farm-level observation units (50%) and 34
observation farms (283%) to test and adapt integrated production systems; and the
production of seeds on 40 ha per year (29%), including maize, castor beans, cotton and
rice; (iii) Rural Extension Services: technical assistance was delivered to 15,200 project
beneficiaries (23%); 100 demonstration plots were established (25%); and 8 million tree
seedlings were produced (100%) to implement a small-scale forestry program;
(iv) Agricultural Credit: medium- and long-term subloans were granted for 200 project
beneficiaries to finance on-farm investments (1%); and (v) Marketing Services:
establishment of 3 regional marketing services (100%) to strengthen input supply
capabilities; and establishment of a food wholesale service for private retailers, including
the expansion of 3 rural services centers (100%).
State provided pre-reformulation data/achievements in the form shown, which was not directly
comparable with original indicator list.
2 Effective date of the reformulation was September 28, 1993.



- 53 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
MARANHAO PROJECT (Ln. 2862-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
INDICATOR               |OPERATIONAL CRITERIA                     COMMENTS
INPUTS       PAC/FUMAC"    State Technical Unit (TUs)  Training seminars for TUs and for NGOs    Done
and Non-Governmental      to be held in the state by July 31, 1993, and
Organizations (NGOs)      updating workshops held by each July 31
trained in rules and      thereafter, under TOR agreed with the
procedures                Bank
PAC/FUMAC         Technical Implementation    Prepared by June 30, 1993 in agreement  Done
Manual                    with the Bank on the basis of the March
12, 1993 "Diretrizes e Criterios Basicos
para a Implementa,ao do Programa
Refornulado de Apoio ao Pequeno
Produtor Rural (PAPP)"
PAC/FUMAC         Publicity                 Publicity campaign proposal submitted to    Done
Bank by June 30, 1993, and campaign
initiated in the state by Sept. 1, 1993 and
thereafter implemented as agreed with the
Bank
PAC/FUMAC         Current situation of target   Baseline study of sample communities  Done
communities and pilot     regionally distributed in the state and pilot
. _______________  municipalities           municipalities completed by Sept. 30, 1993
PAC/FUMAC         Mobilizations assistance  List of NGOs and other agencies to assist    Done
communities in mobilization and
organization is available in the state by
June 15, 1993 and updated annually
thereafter
PAC/FUMAC         Technical assistance      List of suitable individuals, firms, agencies   Done
and NGOs to assist communities in
technical aspects is available in the state by
June 15, 1993 and updated annually
thereafter
FUMAC ONLY    A municipal council with    Documentation certifying existence and    Done
appropriate representation   functioning of municipal council available
has been established and is  from each pilot municipality is available
functioning each pilot    and verified by TUs, by Sept. 30, 1993
municipality
PAC/FUMAC         State and Loan Funds for    At beginning of each month, sufficient  Done
approved projects are     funds from state budget and from Loan
available in a timely     state project account to cover new approved
manner to communities     subprojects, and available to communities
in a timely manner, as reported monthly to
the Bank and SUDENE
PAC/FUMAC         Community counterpart     Signed agreements with executing        Done
funds or resources for    community association explicitly including
approved projects         communitys contribution to subproject cost
1/ PAC: Programa de Apoio ComunitArio (Support to Small Rural Communities Program)
FUMAC: Fundo Municipal de Apoio Comunitario (Pilot Municipal Fund Program for Support to Small Rural Communities).



- 54 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
MARANHAO PROJECT (Ln. 2862-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
(Continued)
INDICATOR                J OPERATIONAL CRITERIA                     COMMENTS
INPUTS        PAC/FUMAC         Supervision                At least 10% of approved subprojects have   Done
(Continued)                                                been inspected in the field by TU at any
point in time
PAC/FUMAC         Administration             TUs are adequately staffed, both at state  Done
headquarters and in field offices, with
capacity to receive, appraise, approve and
supervise subprojects, and to facilitate
private and public assistance to
communities, by July 31, 1993; staffing
increased as necessary to expanding work
requirements
RESULTS       PAC/FUMAC         Communities aware of and   Subproject proposals are being presented  Done
informed about program,    by communities in at least 70% of eligible
rules and procedures       municipalities (PAC and FUMAC by Dec.
31, 1993, and 90% by Dec. 31, 1994
FUMAC ONLY        Open municipal council     TUs and/or supervision missions witness or  Done
meetings to discuss and    are reliably informed about such meetings
agree on municipal list of    being held, in all pilot municipalities
priority subprojects have
been held
FUMAC ONLY    Municipal investment           At least 90% of pilot municipalities have  Done
proposals are received,    submitted such proposals by Dec. 31, 1993
based on community
priorities and approved by
municipal councils
PAC ONLY          Subproject proposals are   At least 150 of such subproject proposals  Done
received and approved      approved by Dec. 31, 1993; and
based on community         cumulatively 500 by June 30, 1994; 900 by
requests                   June 30, 1995 and 1,600 by project
completion
PAC/FUMAC         Number of families         At least 3,700 families benefited with    Done
directly benefited         approved projects by Dec. 31, 1993; 10,000
by June 30, 1994; 18,000 by June 30, 1995
and 32,000 by project completion
PAC/FUMAC         Subprojects approved by    At least 85% of subprojects visited by    Done
TU are eligible,          Bank and SUDENE, of those listed in
technically and           monthly reports, comply with criteria
economically sound, and
from eligible communities
PAC/FUMAC         Subprojects are            Adherence to specifications, cost and time    Done
implemented as approved,   in 85% of cases in a random sample of 50
with cost and time         subprojects in the state to be completed by
June 30 of each year starting in 1994



- 55 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
MARANHAO PROJECT (Ln. 2862-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
(Continued)
[INDICATOR                | OPERATIONAL CRITERIA                    1 COMMENTS
RESULTS       PAC/FUMAC         Funds used only for        No evidence of misuse of funds in at least    Done
(Continued)                     approved subprojects       95% of cases, in a random sample of 50
subprojects, subjected to audit by June 30
of each year starting in 1994
IM1'ACT       PAC/FUMAC         Expressed community        Two-thirds of beneficiaries in sample     Complied with
(Objectives)                    needs are satisfied.       communities are satisfied with the
subproject implemented, its design and
their own role (identification, design,
implementation, control) in the process.
PAC/FUMAC         Projected employment       Employment targets in 80% of sample       Partially complied
generated (productive     productive subprojects have been reached    with
subprojects only)         one year after establishment.
PAC/FUMAC         Projected incremental      In 80% of sample productive subprojects   Partially complied
income realized by         the projected incremental income has been    with
beneficiaries.            realized, or an absolute income level of at
least 2.5 minimum salaries has been
reached, one and a half years after
establishment
PAC/FUMAC         Subprojects sustained by   80% of subprojects are being operated     Done
community and/or           and/or maintained, one and a half years
municipality over time.    after establishment.
FUMAC             Transparent and            A majority of a random sample of the      Done
ONLY              participatory municipal    target population in participating
decision-making process   municipalities expresses satisfaction with
for investments is adopted.  the mumcipal decision-making process, in
at least 75% of those municipalities.
PAC/FUMAC         Organized community        At least 50% of the participating         Done
pursuing further communal  communities in pilot municipalities remain
development interests.     organized and are engaged in further
communal pursuits, of any kind.



- 56 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT ILEMENTATION
ALAGOAS PROJECT (Ln. 2863-BR)
A. Pre-Reformulation I
Some 25% of estimated expenditures had been made prior to reformulation, due to
the same factors experienced in the other states. 2 Achievements under the main
components were (with percentage of appraisal target shown in parentheses): (i) Water
Resources: construction of 180 simple water supply systems (108%) and rehabilitation of
20 such systems in communities with less than 500 inhabitants; (ii) Agricultural Research
and Basic Seed Production: completion of 3 agro-ecological and natural resource studies
(100%); 80 short- and medium-term applied research trials (44%) to improve crop
production technology; establishment of 16 farm-level observation units (133%) to test
and adapt integrated production systems, and the production of seeds on 25 ha per year
(25%), including maize, castor beans, cotton and rice, (iii) Rural Extension Services:
technical assistance was delivered to 16,000 project beneficiaries (49%); 200
demonstration plots were established (133%); and 21,900 tree seedlings were produced
(1%) to implement a small-scale forestry program; (iv) Agricultural Credit: medium- and
long-term subloans were granted for 200 project beneficiaries to finance on-farm
investments (2%); and (v) Marketing Services: installation of mobile units for grading and
classification of 2 rural service centers (50%).
State provided pre-reformulation data/achievements in the form shown, which was not directly
comparable with original indicator list.
2 Effective date of the reformulation was September 28, 1993.



- 57 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
ALAGOAS PROJECT (Ln. 2863-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
INDICATOR        |        OPERATIONAL CRITERIA              [    COMMENTS
INPUTS         PAC/FUMAC"    State Technical Unit    Training seminars for TUs and for NGOs have   Done
(TUs) and Non-         been held in the state by July 31, 1993, and
Governmental           updating workshops held by each July 31
Organizations (NGOs)  thereafter, under TOR agreed with the Bank.
trained in rules and
procedures.
PAC/FUMAC        Technical              Prepared by June 30, 1993 in agreement with    Done
Implementation         the Bank on the basis of the March 12, 1993
Manual.                "Diretrizes e Critrios Basicos para a
Implementa,ao do Programa Reformulado de
Apoio ao Pequeno Produtor Rural (PAPP)".
PAC/FUMAC        Publicity.             Publicity campaign proposal submitted to   Partially done. The
Bank by June 30, 1993, and campaign        initial campaign was
initiated in the state by Sept. 1, 1993 and  limited. The State
thereafter implemented as agreed with the  has taken measures to
Bank.                                      expand publicity
coverage.
PAC/FUMAC        Current situation of   Baseline study of sample communities       In progress
target communities and  regionally distributed in the state and pilot
pilot municipalities.  municipalities completed by Sept. 30, 1993.
PAC/FUMAC        Mobilization           List of NGOs and other agencies to assist  Done
assistance.            communities in mobilization and organization
is available in the state by June 15, 1993 and
updated annually thereafter.
PAC/FUMAC        Technical assistance.    List of suitable individuals, firms, agencies  Done
and NGOs to assist communities in technical
aspects is available in the state by June 15,
1993 and updated annually thereafter.
FUMAC ONLY    A municipal council       Documentation certifying existence and     Three Municipal
with appropriate       functioning of municipal council available  Councils have been
representation has    from each pilot municipality is available and    established to date.
been established and is  verified by TUs, by Sept. 30, 1993
functioning in each
pilot municipality
PAC/FUMAC        State and Loan Funds    At beginning of each month, sufficient funds    Partially complied
for approved          from state budget and from Loan state project   with. State has
subprojects are       account to cover new approved subprojects,  provided limited
available in a timely  and available to communities in a timely  counterpart funds.
manner to             manner, as reported monthly to the Bank and
communities.           SUDENE.
1/ PAC: Programa de Apoio Comunitario (Support to Small Rural Communities Program)
FUMAC: Fundo Municipal de Apoio ComunitArio (Pilot Municipal Fund Program for Support to Small Rural Communities).



- 58 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
ALAGOAS PROJECT (Ln. 2863-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
(Continued)
INDICATOR                 OPERATIONAL CRITERIA                   COMMENTS
INPUTS         PAC/FUMAC        Community              Signed agreements with executing           Done
(Continued)                     counterpart funds or   community/association with explicit
resources for approved   information including communitys
projects.             contribution to subproject cost.
PAC/FUMAC        Supervision.           At least 10% of approved subprojects have  Done
been inspected in the field by TU at any point
in time.
PAC/FUMAC        Administration.        TUs are adequately staffed, both at state  Done
headquarters and in field offices, with capacity
to receive, appraise, approve and supervise
subprojects, and to facilitate private and
public assistance to communities, by July 31;
staffing increased as necessary to expanding
work requirements.
RESULTS        PAC/FUMAC        Conmmunities aware of   Subproject proposals are being presented by  Complied with
and informed about    communities in at least 70% of eligible
program, rules and     municipalities (PAC and FUMAC) by Dec.
procedures.            31, 1993, and 90% by Dec. 31, 1994.
FUMAC ONLY    Open municipal            TUs and/or supervision missions witness or  Partially complied
council meetings to   are reliably informed about such meetings  with. Meetings were
discuss and agree on   being held, in all pilot municipalities.  held in the three
municipal list of                                                municipalities where
priority subprojects,                                             Councils exist.
have been held.
FUMAC ONLY    Municipal investment   At least 90% of pilot municipalities have     Partially complied
proposals are received,  submitted such proposals by Dec. 31, 1993.  with. 60% of
based on community                                               FUMAC
pnorities and approved                                           municipalities have
by municipal councils.                                           complied.
PAC ONLY         Subproject proposals    At least 100 of such subproject proposals  742 subprojects
are received and       approved by Dec. 31, 1993; and cumulatively   approved and
approved based on      250 by June 30, 1994; 450 by June 30, 1995    financed.
community requests.    and 750 by project completion.
PACIFUMAC        Number of families     At least 2,500 families benefited with     Complied with
directly benefited.    approved projects by Dec. 31, 1993; 6,200 by
June 30, 1994; 11,200 by June 30, 1995 and
18,700 by project completion.
PAC/FUMAC        Subprojects approved    At least 85% of subprojects visited by Bank  Complied with
by TU are eligible,    and SUDENE, of those listed in monthly
technically and       reports, comply with criteria.
economically sound,
and from eligible
cornmunities.



- 59 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
ALAGOAS PROJECT (Ln. 2863-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
(Continued)
. ______INDICATOR                OPERATIONAL CRITERIA                   COMMENTS
RESULTS        PAC/FUMAC        Subprojects are        Adherence to specifications, cost and time in    Done
(Continued)                     implemented as         85% of cases in a random sample of 50
approved, with cost    subprojects in the state, to be completed by
and time               June 30 of each year starting in 1994.
specifications.
PACtFUMAC        Funds used only for    No evidence of misuse of funds in at least  Complied with
approved subprojects.    95% of cases, in a random sample of 50
subprojects, subjected to audit by June 30 of
each year starting in 1994.
IMPACT         PAC/FUMAC        Expressed community    Two-thirds of beneficiaries in sample      Complied with
(Objectives)                    needs are satisfied.   communities are satisfied with the subproject
implemented, its design and their own role
(identification, design, implementation,
control) in the process.
PAC/FUMAC        Projected employment   Employment targets in 80% of sample        Complied with
generated (productive    productive subprojects have been reached one
subprojects only)     year after establishment.
PACtFUMAC        Projected incremental   In 80% of sample productive subprojects the    Complied with
income realized by     projected incremental income has been
beneficiaries.        realized, or an absolute income level of at
least 2.5 minimum salaries has been reached,
one and a half years after establishment.
PACtFIJMAC       Subprojects sustained    80% of subprojects are being operated and/or   Complied with
by community and/or    maintained, one and a half years after
municipality over time.  establishment.
FUMAC            Transparent and        A majority of a random sample of the target  Complied with
ONLY             participatory municipal  population in participating municipalities
decision-making        expresses satisfaction with the municipal
process for investments  decision-making process, in at least 75% of
is adopted.           those municipalities.
PAC/FUMAC        Organized community    At least 50% of the participating communities   Complied with
pursuing further       in pilot municipalities remain organized and
communal               are engaged in further communal pursuits, of
development interests.   any kind.



- 60 -
TABLE 6. STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
PARAIBA PROJECT (Ln. 2860-BR)
Study           Purpose as Defined at       Status         Impact of Study
AppraisaURedefined
Feasibility studies   To determine areas with       Done            Various schemes
irrigation potential                          implemented.
MARANHAO PROJECT (Ln. 2862-BR)
Study           Purpose as Defined at       Status         Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Feasibility Studies   To determine areas with       Done            Various schemes
irrigation potential                          implemented.
ALAGOAS PROJECT (Ln. 2863-BR)
Study           Purpose as Defined at       Status         Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Feasibility studies   To determine areas with       Done            Various schemes
irrigation potential                          implemented.



- 61 -
TABLE 7. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
PARAIBA PROJECT (Ln. 2860-BR)
A. Project Costs
(US$ million)
Item                     Appraisal Estimate                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Local     Foreign                  Local      Foreign
Costs      Costs       Total       Costs       Costs       Total
A. Water Resource                 15.1         4.0        19.1         10.0         2.6        12.6
Development
B. Agricultural Research and       7.1         0.8         7.9          1.2         0.1         1.3
Basic Seed Production
C. Agricultural Extension         24.3         0.9        25.2          5.3         0.2         5.5
D. Rural Investment Credit        32.1         5.6        37.7          0.2         0.0         0.2
E. Marketing Services              2.0         0.4         2.4          2.3         0.4         2.7
F. Support to Small Rural
Communities
(i)  APCR                      12.5         1.9        14.4          9.6         1.5        11.1
(ii)  PAC                       --         --          --           24.1         6.3        30.4
(iii) FUMAC                     --         --          --           13.2         3.6        16.8
G. Project Administration and      8.4         0.4         8.8         10.6         4.7        15.3
Training
Total Baseline Cost              101.5        14.0       115.5         76.5        19.5        96.0
Physical Contingencies          2.1         0.7         2.8         --         --
Price Contingencies             5.2         0.4         5.6         --         --          --
Total Project Cost               108.8        15.1       123.9         76.5        19.5        96.0
1.  Original project, pre-reformulation.
2. Post-reformulation project.
B. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source                     Appraisal Estimate               Actual/Latest Estimate 2
Local    Foreign                 Local    Foreign
Costs      Costs      Total      Costs      Costs       Total
IBRD                                  44.9        15.1       60.0        39.9        19.5       59.43
Federal Government                    63.9        --         63.9        10.1       --          10.1
StateGovernmentofParaiba               --         --         --          21.8       --         21.8
Beneficiaries                          --         --         --           4.7       --           4.7
Total                                108.8        15.1      123.9        76.5       19.5       96.0
1. Federal Government, pre-reformulation.
2.  State Government post-reformulation.
3. An estimated balance of USSO.6 million will be canceled.



- 62 -
TABLE 7. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
MARANHAO PROJECT (Ln. 2862-BR)
A. Project Costs
(US$ million)
Item                    Appraisal Estimate 1               Actual/Latest Estimate 2
Local     Foreign                  Local     Foreign
Costs      Costs       Total       Costs       Costs       Total
A. WaterResource                  11.3         3.9       15.2          6.3         2.4         8.7
Development
B. Agricultural Research and       8.7         0.9         9.6         2.3         0.2         2.5
Basic Seed Production
C. Rural Extension                28.6         2.2       30.8          4.7         0.3         5.0
D. Rural Investment Credit        42.8         7.6       50.4          0.2         0.0         0.2
E. Marketing Services              2.0         0.6         2.6         0.5         0.2         0.7
F. Support to Small Rural
Communities
(i)  APCR                      22.3         3.6       25.9         69.2        11.2        80.4
(ii)  PAC                      --          --          --          13.7         3.6        17.3
(iii) FUMAC                    --          --          --           9.8         2.6        12.4
G. Environmental Protection        1.6         0.1         1.7         5.1         0.3         5.4
H. Project Administration and     13.3         0.7        14.0        16.0         0.8        16.8
Training
Total Baseline Cost              130.6        19.6      150.2        127.8        21.6      149.4
Physical Contingencies          2.3         0.8        3.1         --         --          --
Price Contingencies            16.9         2.1        19.0        --         --          --
Total Project Cost               149.8       22.5       172.3        127.8        21.6       149.4
1.  Original project, pre-reformulation.
2.  Post-reformnulation project.
B. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source                    Appraisal Estimate               ActuallLatest Estimate 2
Local    Foreign                 Local    Foreign
Costs      Costs      Total      Costs      Costs      Total
IBRD                                  61.5       22.5       84.0        58.6       21.6       80.2 3
Federal Government                    88.3       --         88.3        22.2       --         22.2
State Government of Maranhao 4         --        --         --          38.0      --          38.0
Beneficiaries                         --         --         --           9.0       --          9.0
Total                                149.8       22.5      1,72.3      127.8       21.6      149.4
1.  Federal Government, pre-refornulation.
2.  State Govefrnment, post-reformulation.
3.  An estimated balance of USS3.8 million will be canceled.
4.  Part of counterpart fund provided by INCRN



- 63 -
TABLE 7. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
ALAGOAS PROJECT (Ln. 2863-BR)
A. Project Costs
(US$ million)
Item                    Appraisal Estimate'                Actual/Latest Estimate 2
Local     Foreign      Total       Local      Foreign      Total
Costs      Costs                   Costs       Costs
A. Water Resource                  1.2         0.3         1.5         1.2         0.3         1.5
Development
B. Agricultural Research and       4.2         0.5         4,7          1.2        0.1         1.3
Basic Seed Production
C. Agricultural Extension         19.7         0.6       20.3          5.3         0.1         5.4
D. Rural Investment Credit        29.2         5.2       34.4          0.6         0.1         0.7
E. Marketing Services              0.3        --          0.3          0.5         0.0         0.5
F. Support to Small Rural
Communities
(i)  APCR                      10.6         1.5       12.1          4.6         0.7         5.3
(ii)  PAC                       --         --          --          11.1         2.9        14.0
(iii) FUMAC                     --         --          --            1.0        0.2         1.2
G. Project Admninistration and     8.2         0.7         8.9         8.5         3.7        12.2
Training
Total Baseline Cost               73.4         8.8       82.2         34.0         8.1        42.1
Physical Contingencies          0.7         0.2         0.9        --         --          --
Price Contingencies             3.1         0.2         3.3        --         --          --
Total Project Cost                77.2         9.2       86.4         34.0         8.1        42.1
1.  Original project, pre-reformulation.
2. Post-reformulation project.
B. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source                     Appraisal Estimate'             Actual/Latest Estimate 2
Local    Foreign      Total     Local    Foreign      Total
Costs     Costs                 Costs      Costs
IBRD                                   32.8        9.2       42.0        14.1        8.1      22.2 3
Federal Government                     44.4        --        44.4        10.5      --          10,5
State Government of Alagoas            --         --         --           7.9      --           7.9
Beneficiaries                          --         --         --           1.5      --           1.5
Total                                  77.2        9.2       86.4        34.0        8.1      42.1
1.  Federal Government, pre-reformulation.
2.  State Governmnt, post-reformulation.
3. An estimated balance of US$19.8 million will be canceled.



- 64 -
BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2860-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original        Revised                Description
Covenant        Present    Fulfillment    Fulfillment                     of
Agreement        Section                 Type           Status         Date            Date                   Covenant                        Comments
Loan            2.08                       5               C                                      Secretary of Treasury designated    Complied with.
as Borrower's representative
3.01 (a)                  5               C                                      Federal commitment to cany out    Rural credit component
rural credit component            discontinued with Project
reformulation. Amendment
Letter became effective
September27, 1993.
3.01 (b)                 10               C                                      Federal commitment to cause        Complied with.
State to perform according to
Project Agreement
3.01 (c)                 10               C                                      Refers to settlement targets as    Settlement component
defined in Project Agreement      discontinued with Project
(Section 3.03, see below)         reformulation.
3.01 (d)                  4               C                                      Federal counterpart funding        Counterpart funding has been
provided by the State instead
of the Federal Govermnent
with Project reformulation.
Sufficient state counterpart
funds have been released in a
timely manner.
Covenant Te:  I Accounts/audit; 2 Financial perfonnance/generate revenue from beneficianies; 3 Flow and utilization of Poject funds; 4 Counterpart funding, 5 Management aspects ofthe Project
or of its executing agency, 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntary resettlement; S Indigenous people; 9 Monitoring review and reporting, 10 Implementation; 11 Sectoral or
cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action; 13 Odher
Status:         C         = covenant conplied with                             NC       = not complied with
CD        = conmplied with after delay                        NYD    = not yet due
CP        = complied with partially                           SOON   = compliance expected in reasonably shoit time



- 65 -
BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2860-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Original       Revised                Description
Covenant        Present    Fulfillment    Fulfillment                   of
Agreement       Section                 Type           Status        Date           Date                  Covenant                       Comments
Loan            3.01 (e)                  3              C                                      Efficient Federal mechanisms for   Federal (loan) funds
(Continued)                                                                                     passing funds to states          tmnsferred expeditiously by
STN.
3.01 (f)                 5              C                                      Federal conumitment on           Rural credit comnponent
mechanism to cany out rural      discontinued after Project
credit component                 reformulation.
3.02                     3              C                                      SUDENE's obligation to provide   With project reformulation, it
the Bank with advance annual    became State's responsibility
plan, final budgets and changes    to prepare and present to the
in planming procedures, all in a  Bank a proposal for the Annual
timely fashion, for conment     Plan. POA for 1996 presented
and approved by the Bank.
4.01                     1               C                                     Audit of Special Accounts        Compliod with.
Project         2.01 (a) (b)              5              C                                      State commitment to execute     Complied with.
Prct with due diligence and in
accordance with Plan of Action.
2.01 (c)                 5               C                                     Mutual obligations of State and    Conplied with.
executing agency, defined by
contract
CoveM Tv:  I Acco/au&;d  2 Finaial perfomnc/generate revenue from bendicia; 3 Flow and utiizaion of Project fium; 4 Coutapwt fuidng; 5 Ma nent aspect of the Projed
or of its exeting agny, 6 Enviomnt covaus; 7 bvohuiary rentt       Itdigenous Peo, 9 Monitnng, reviw mad rportg 10 I11knnntatin; II Setoral or
crae dctoa budgdey or ohw resource allocatsio  12 Sectoral or crosectoral epy/ib actin; 13 Other
Slow:           C         = covna complied with                             NC       - net compid wib
CD       = conliedwith afer delay                           NYD    = not yt due
CP       = compied with ptialy                              SOON   - conhaiue expecte m ronably art tinw



- 66 -
BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2860-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Original        Revised                 Description
Covenant         Present    Fulfillment    Fulfillment                      of
Agreement        Section                  Type            Status         Date            Date                    Covenant                         Comments
Project          2.01 (d)                   5                C                                       Quarterly reporting by TU          With Project reformulation,
(Continued)                                                                                                                             State has submitted to the
Bank and to SUDENE reports
based on the newly created
SSMP.
2.01 (e)                   5               C                                        Reorganize TU, provide qualified   Complied with.
staff
2.01 (f)                   5               C                                        TU obligation for annual plan      Complied with.
2.02                       3               C                                        State to respect procurement       Complied with.
regulations
2.06                       5               C                                        Carrying out of Part F of the      Complied with.
reformulated Project in
accordance with the Operational
Manual
2.08                      10               C                                        Carrying out of a publicity        Complied with.
campaign
3.01 (a)                   I               C                                        Executing agencies to maintain     Complied with.
separate accounts
Covenant Te:  I Accountslaudit; 2 Financial perfonnance/genate revenue from beneficiaries; 3 Flow and utilization of Project funds; 4 Counterpart funding, 5 Management aspects of the Projed
or of its executing agency; 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntary resettlement; 8 Indigenous peole; 9 Monitoring, review and repoting; 10 Inplementation; 11 Sectoral or
cros-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulaory/institutional action; 13 Other
Statu:           C         = covenant complied with                              NC       = rot couplied with
CD        = complied with afler delay                           NYD      = not yet duce
CP        = complied with partially                             SOON    = cmpliance expected in reasonably shr time



- 67 -
BRAZIL
MARANHAO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2862-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original         Revised                  Description
Covenant       Present      Fulfillment      Fulfillment                    of
Agreement        Section               Type          Status         Date             Date                     Covenant                        Comments
Loan            2.08                     5             C                                         Secretary of Treasury designated as    Complied with.
Borrower's representative
3.01 (a)                5             C                                         Federal commitment to project        Rural credit component
objectives and to carry out rural   discontinued with Project
credit component                    reformulation. Amendment
Letter became effective
September28, 1993.
3.01 (b)               10             C                                         Federal commitment to cause State    With Project reformulation,
to perform according to Project     the Federal Government
Agreement                           transferred to the State the
implementation of the
Project.
3.01 (c)                10            C                                         Refers to settlement targets as      Settlement component
defined in Project Agreement        discontinued with Project
(Section 3.03, see below)           reformulation.
3.01 (d)                4             C                                         Federal counterpart funding          Counterpart funding was
provided by the State instead
of the Federal Government
with Project reformulation.
3.01 (e)                3             C                                         Efficient Federal mechanisms for     Complied with.
passing funds to states
Covenant Tyje: I Accountsaudit; 2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries; 3 Flow and utilization of Project funds; 4 Counterpart fundingx, 5 Management aspeds ofthe Project
or of its executing agency, 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntary resettlement; 8 Indigenous people; 9 Monitoring, review and reporting. 10 Implementation; 11 Sectoral or
cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action; 13 Oher
States:         C         = covenant complied with                             NC       = not complied with
CD        = complied with afier delay                         NYD    = not yd due
CP        = complied with partially                           SOON   = compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 68 -
BRAZIL
MARANHAO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2862-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Original         Revised                  Description
Covenant       Present      Fulfillment      Fulfillment                    of
Agreement       Section                Type          Status         Date             Date                     Covenant                        Comments
Loan             3.01 (f(i) (a)          10            C                                         Federal commitment on mechanism    Rural credit component
(Continued)                                                                                      to carry out rural credit component    discontinued with Project
reformulation.
3.01 (f) (i) (b)        3             C                                         Participating bank obligation to    Since rural credit was
provide adequate working capital.    discontinued, there was no
need for participating banks.
3.01 (f) (i) (c-e)      5             C                                         Participating bank obligation to    Since rural credit was
provide monthly information.        discontinued, there was no
need for participating banis.
3.01 (g)                5             C                                         Borrower comnumtment to cause each   Complied with.
of the Federal executing entities to
enter into agreements with the State
3.01 (h)                8             C                                         Federal and State obligation to carry   The State settled major issues
out the action plan for Amermndian    related to the Canabrava-
areas                               Guajajara Reserve. Project
supported several indigenous
communities.
Covenant TVue:  I Accounts/audit; 2 Financial performance/generate revenue froni beneficiaries; 3 Flow and utilization of Project funds; 4 Counterpart funding; 5 Manageme aspects ofthe Project
or of its executing agency; 6 Environmental covenarts; 7 Involuntary resettlemeent; 8 Indigenous people; 9 Monitoring, review and reporting, 10 Implementaion; 11 Sectoral or
cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-seoral regulatory/intitutional action; 13 Odter
Status:         C         = covenant complied with                             NC       = not conmplied with
CD        = conmplied wit afer delay                          NYD    = not yet due
CP        = coniplied with partially                          SOON   = compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 69 -
BRAZIL
MARANHAO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2862-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Original         Revised                  Description
Covenant       Present      Fulfillment      Fulfillment                    of
Agreement       Section                Type          Status         Dote             Date                     Covenant                        Comments
Loan             3.02                    3             C                                         SUDENE's obligation to provide      SUDENE complied up to
(Continued)                                                                                      the Bank with advance annual        reformulation. Since
plans, budgets and proposed         reformulation, this
changes in planning procedures, all  responsibility has belonged to
in timely fashion, for comunent.   the individual States.
Maranhao has complied.
4.01                    1             C                                         Audit of Special Account             1995 audit was received by
the Bank. Pending issues
were resolved by the State.
4.02 and 4.03           1             C                                         Accounts and audit of Central Bank.  Complied with.
Project         2.01 (a) (b)             5             C                                         State commnitment to execute Project  Complied with.
with due diligence and in
accordance with Plan of Action.
2.01 (c)                5             C                                         Mutual obligations of State and     Complied with.
executing agency, defined by
contract
2.01 (d)                5             C                                         Quarterly reporting by TU           Complied with.
2.01 (e)                5             C                                         Reorganize TU, provide qualified    Complied with.
staff
Covenant Type:  I Accounts/audit; 2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries; 3 Flow and utilization of Project funds; 4 Counterpart funding; 5 Management aspects ofthe Project
or of its executing agency; 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntary resettlement; 8 Indigenous people; 9 Monitoring, review and reporting; 10 Implementation; 11 Sectoral or
cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action; 13 Other
Status:          C        = covenant complied with                             NC       = not complied with
CD        = complied with after delay                         NYD    = not yet due
CP        = complied with partially                           SOON   = compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 70 -
BRAZIL
MARANHAO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2862-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Original         Revised                   Description
Covenant       Present      Fulfillment       Fulfillment                     of
Agreement        Section                Type           Status         Date              Date                     Covenant                         Comments
Project          2.01 (f) (g)             5              C                                          TU obligation to prepare annual      Complied with.
(Continued)                                                                                         plan and to cause the executing
agencies to purchase vehicles and
computers
2.02                     3              C                                          State to respect procurement         Complied with.
regulations
2.06                     5              C                                          Carrying out of Part F of the        Complied with.
reformulated Project in accordance
with the Operational Manual
2.08                    10              C                                          Canying out of a publicity campaign  Complied with.
Covenant Type: I Accounts/audit; 2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries; 3 Flow and utilization of Project funds; 4 Counterpart funding; 5 Management aspects of the Project
or of its executing agency; 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntary resettlement; 8 Indigenous people; 9 Monitoring, review and reporting; 10 Implementation; 11 Sectoral or
cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action; 13 Other
Status:          C         = covenant complied with                              NC       = not complied with
CD        = complied with after delay                           NYD      = not yet due
CP        = complied with partially                             SOON    = compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 71 -
BRAZIL
ALAGOAS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2863-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original       Revised                     Description
Covenant   Present   Fulfillment   Fulfillment                           of
Agreement    Section                Type       Status        Date           Date                        Covenant                                Comments
Loan           2.08                   5          C                                      Secretary of Treasury designated as         Complied with.
Borrower's representative
3.01 (c)              10          C                                     Refers to settlement targets as defined in   Settlement comnponent
Project Agreement (Section 3.03, see        discontinued with Project
below)                                      reformulation.
3.01 (d)               4         CP                                     Federal counterpart fimding                  Counterpart funding was provided
by the State instead of the Federal
Government with Project
reformulation. However, the State
has not been providing sufficient
counterpart funding.
3.01 (e)               3          C                                     Efficient Federal mechanisms for passing     Federal (loan) funds transferred
funds to states                             expeditiously by STN.
3.01 (f) (i) (a)      10          C                                     Federal commitment to mechanism to carry    Rural credit component
out rural credit component                  discontinued with Project
reformulation. Amendment Letter
became effective September 28,
1993.
Covenant Type:  I Accounts/audit; 2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries; 3 Flow and utilization of Project funds; 4 Counterpart funding; 5 Management aspects of the Project
or of its executing agency; 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntary resettlement; 8 Indigenous people; 9 Monitoring, review and reporting; 10 Implementation; 11 Sectoral or
cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action; 13 Other
Status:          C         = covenant complied with                              NC       = not complied with
CD        = complied with after delay                           NYD      = not vet due
CP        = complied with partially                             SOON    = compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 72 -
BRAZIL
ALAGOAS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2863-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Original      Revised                    Description
Covenant  Present   Fulfillment   Fulfillment                        of
Agreement   Section               Type       Status      Date           Date                      Covenant                             Comments
Loan          3.01 (f) (i) (b)      3          C                                  Participating bank obligation to provide  Since rural credit was discontinued,
(Continued)                                                                        adequate working capital                 there was no need for participating
banks.
3.02                 3          C                                   SUDENE's obligation to provide the Bank   Complied with. With Project
with advance annual plan, final budgets  reformulation, it became the State's
and changes in planning procedures, all in   responsibility to prepare and
timely fashion, for comment.             present to the Bank proposals for
the Annual Plan.
4.01                  1         C                                   Audit of Special Account                  Complied with.
4.02 and 4.03         1         C                                   Account and audit of Central Bank.        Complied with.
5.01 (b)             10         C                                   Remedy for rural credit non-performance   Rural credit component
discontinued with Project
refonnulation.
Project       2.06                  5          C                                   Carrying out of Part F of the reformulated    Complied with.
Project in accordance with the Operational
Manual
2.08                 10         CD                                  Carrying out of a publicity campaign      Measures were taken to comply
with requirement.
Covenant Type:  I Accounts/audit; 2 Financial performance/generate revenue fron beneficiaries; 3 Flow and utilization of Project funds; 4 Counterpart funding, 5 Management aspects ofthe Project
or of its executing agency; 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntary resettlement; 8 Indigenous people; 9 Monitoring, review and reporting, 10 Inplemnentation; 11 Sectoral or
cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action; 13 Other
Status:         C         = covenant complied with                           NC      = not complied with
CD       = complied with after delay                        NYD    = not yet due
CP       = complied with partially                          SOON   = compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 73 -
TABLE 9. EcoNoMic COSTS AND BENEFITS
Introduction:
I .    The Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) was not re-calculated for the original
projects (pre-reformulation) for reasons stated in Part 1, para. 99 The reformulated projects were
part of a program of targeted interventions based on a demand-driven mechanism of which the
costs, benefits and rates of return could not be determined ex ante. IERRs were not calculated
for the reformulated projects and thus there is no "re-calculation" of the IERRs for this ICR. For
a discussion of the results of recent FAO/World Bank analyses (1995, 1996 and 1997) of socio-
economic benefits and cost-effectiveness of sample productive subprojects under the NRDP, see
Part 1, paras. 100-103 and Tables 9A-91 below. Tables 9A and 9B are based on sample data from
all ten states in the NRDP (from the 1995 analysis); Tables 9C-91 are based on state-specific data
for Paraiba, Maranhao and Alagoas (from the 1997 analysis).



- 74 -
TABLE 9A. SOCIO-ECONOMIC BENEFITS OF PAC/FUMAC SUBPROJECTS BY MAIN SUBPROJECT TYPE -
(All Northeast States, 1995)
Subproject   Total No. of    Total No. of     Cost per    Total No.   Total Net    Total Net        Total      Internal     Cost Effectiveness
Type       Subprojects    Beneficiaries   Beneficiary    of Jobs   Incremental  Incremental  Incremental   Econ.          Total       Social
being                         (US$)       Created    Income per   Income per   Crop Area    Rate of   Investment   Benefit-
Implemented                                                 Year      Beneficiary      (ha)       Return      per Job       Cost
and/or                                                (US$ '000)    per Year                     (%)       Created      Ratio '
Completed                                                               (US$)                                 (US$)
Infrastructure
- Rural water       976        138,592           142          --           --           --            --          --          --
supply
- Rural             758         36,384          400           --           --           --            --          --         --          --
electrification
Productive
- Manioc mills      380         39,520          297         11,460      14,890         377           7,900       > 50       1,273       > 3.0
- Tractors for      198         15,048          438          9,900      11,587         770          36,080       > 50        816        > 3.0
communal use
- Rice mills         62          2,932          234            398         968         330           1,220       > 50       2,895       > 3.0
- Clothes            88          7,360           109         1,583       1,400          190           --         > 50        925        > 3.0
making
Social
- House             116          8,236          461             --          --           --           --          --          --         --
improvement
- Childcare          29          2,639          290             --         605         229            --         > 50         --        > 3.0
centers
1/  Based on data from sample subprojects in all ten NDRP states.
2/ Real discount rate is 10%.
Source: Bank/FAQ Evaluation, 1995



- 75 -
TABLE 9B. FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY ANALYSIS OF PRODUCTIVE SUBPROJECTS1
(All Northeast States, 1995)
Item/Subproject               Manioc Mills          Rice Mills       Farm Tractors
Number of associations                             380                   62                198
Average net income per association                3,737              2,131               6,631
(US$) 11
Average cost of subproject (US$)                20,000              11,000              33,300
Average number of years:
Of useful economic life (years)                      12                  12                  10
To build replacement find (years) 3'                  5                   5                   5
1/ Based on data from sample subprojects in all ten NDRP states.
2/ Total income from association fees and cost recovery net of all O&M and other recurrent costs.
3/ Number of years after which the association has accumulated enough funds to replace the original investment,
which is considerably less than the useful economic life of the investment. The real interest rate is assumed to
be 10%.
Source: Bank/FAO Evaluation, 1995



- 76-
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAIBA
(Loan 2860-BR)
TABLE 9C. SLLECTED DATA ON MAJOR TYPES OF SUBPROJECTS1'
Subproject Type                 Total No. of      Total No. of        Cost per
Subprojects      Beneficiaries      Beneficiary
Implemented        (Families)       Family (USS)
nfrastructuMe
Rural electrification (55%9'                        1,263            64,275               490
Rural water supply (I 1%Y'                            264            22,974               190
Prodictive
Minor irrigation schemes (3 ')2                        79             4,194               256
Cereals Processing (3%o) 2'                            75             7,993               142
Small agricultural equipment (2Y.) 2                   55             4,776               150
Small ruminants production (2%) 2'                     44             3,552               157
Artisanal fisheries (1%')2                             31               684               799
ci"
Multi-purpose community centers (2%6) 2'               41             3,746               259
1/ Data obtained from State database.
2I Percentage of all subprojects implemented in the State.
Solrce: Bank/FA0 Evaluation (Drft), 1997



- 77 -
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAIBA
(Loan 2860-BR)
TABLE 9D. SOCIO-EcoNoMIc BENEFiTS OF SELECTED PRODUCTIVE SUBPROJECTS1-
Subproject     N of Jobs     Total Net        Net          Total       Internal Rate of Return      Cost Effectiveness
Type        Created 2/  Incremental  Incremental  Incremental
Income per   Income per   Crop Area    Financial    Economic            Total      Benefit-
Year       Beneficiary                                            Investment      Cost
Family per                                              per Job      Ratio
Year                                                 Created
(US$)         (US$)          (ha)         (%)           (%)          (US$)
Productive          18          36,969          1,680           24          >50         >50 4'         1,921          1.7
Irrigation
Small               15           5,575           279           --             12         38 1'         1,370         1.8
Ruminants
Development
Cereals              3           4,540            35            60            15        >50 4'        5,819          2.4
Processing s
Forage grinder      n/a         65,300           480           n/a          >50         >50 4'         n/a         > 5.0
1/  Based on sample subprojects surveyed in that category.
2/  In sample subprojects surveyed.
3/  Real discount rate is 10%.
4/  30%, 20%, 40% and >50%, respectively, when shadowing public funds.
5/ Cereals processings includes bean and corn processing subprojects.
Source: Bank/FAO Evaluation (Draft), 1997



- 78 -
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAIBA
(Loan 2860-BR)
TABLE 9E. FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY ANALYSIS OF SELECTED PRODUCTIVE SUBPROJECTS
Item/Subproject Type                            Cereals           Forage
Processing        Grinders
Number of associations                              54               22
Average net income per association (US$)1'       7,482            9,500
Average cost of subproject (US$)                 8,721            5,600
Average number of years:
Of useful economic life (years)                      5                 5
To build replacement fund (years)2'                  2                 1
1/ Total income from association fees and cost recovery net of all O&M and other
recurrent costs.
2/ Number of years after which the association has accumulated enough funds to replace
the original investment, based on sample subprojects surveyed. The real interest rate is
assumed to be 10%.
Source:    Bank/FAO Evaluation (Draft), 1997



- 79 -
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MARANHAO
(Loan 2862-BR)
TABLE 9F. SELECTED DATA ON MAJOR TYPES OF SUBPROJECTS1'
Subproject Type                 Total No. of           Total No. of        Cost per Beneficiary
Subprojects           Beneficiaries             Family
Implemented             (Families)               (USS)
Infrastructure
Localized road rehabilitation (26%)2'           790                114,111                    203
Rural electrification (21%)?                    633                 95,777                    189
Rural water supply (14%)fr                      421                 53,607                    169
Productive
Clothes-making (8%)2                            254                 10,922                    509
Agricultural inputs (5%)2/                      142                  6,584                    447
Rice mills (5%)7'                               140                  9,837                    151
Communal tractors (4%)2                         132                  5,646                    587
Manioc mills (3%)Z/                              80                  6,000                    112
Social
Health-related house improvement                110                  4,766                    706
(4%)2'
Day care centers (I %)23 2                                           3,104                    178
I/  Data obtained from State database.
2/  Percentage of all subprojects implemented in the State.
Source: Bank/FAO Evaluation (Draft), 1997



- 80 -
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MARANHAO
(Loan 2862-BR)
TABLE 9G. SOCIO-ECONOMIc BENEFITS OF SELECTED PRODUCTIVE SUBPROJECTS 1/
Subproject Type    No. of Jobs    Total Net          Net             Total       Internal Rate of Return          Cost Effectiveness
Created 2    Incremental   Incremental    Incremental                                    Total         Social
Income per    Income per        Crop Area    Financal  Economic          Investment    Benefit-
Year        Beneficiary        (ha)          (%)         (%)            per Job        Cost
(USS)        Family per                                                 Created       Ratio A'
Year(U$
(USS)                                                    (USS)
Rice mills                   n/a        8,277           243               17          >50          42 4           n/a               1.5
Manioc mills                 nla        4,931           197                8          >50         >504'           n/a               1.8
Tractors                     23        31,512          1,370              38          >50           374'         2,182              1.3
1/  Based on sample subprojects surveyed in that category.
2/  In sample subprojects surveyed.
3/  Real discount rate is 10%.
4/   14%, 30% and 5%, respectively, when shadowing public funds.
Source: Bank/FAO Evaluation (Draft), 1997



- 81 -
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MARANHAO
(Loan 2862-BR)
TABLE 9H. FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY ANALYSIS OF SELECTED PRODUCTIVE SUBPROJECTS
Item/Subproject Type                                            Rice Mills                Manioc Mills
Number of associations                                             140                          80
Average net income per association (US$)!'                       8,278                       4,931
Average cost of subproject (US$)                                12,365                       6,827
Average number of years:
Of useful economic life (years)                                     12                          12
To build replacement fund (years)2'                                  2                           2
1/ Total income from association fees and cost recovery net of all O&M and other recurrent costs.
2/ Number of years after which the association has accumulated enough funds to replace the original investment, based on
sample subprojects surveyed. The real interest rate is assumed to be 1 0%.
Source:    Bank/FAG Evaluation (Draft), 1997



- 82 -
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - ALAGOAS
(Loan 2863-BR)
TABLE 91. SELECTED DATA ON MAJOR TYPES OF SUBPROJECTS '
Subproject Type                    Total No. of             Total No. of           Cost per
Subprojects Implemented       Beneficiaries     Beneficiary Family
(Families)            (US$)
Infrastructure
Rural electrification (42%)2'           286                           15,814                488
Rural water supply (14%)3'               96                          17,909                  93
Productive
Manioc mills (7%)21                      48                           6,111                 101
Grain threshers (6%)2'                   38                           3,960                  74
Communal farm tractors (3%)2'            22                           4,264                 103
Small-scale irrigation (I%)2'             4                             309                 258
Social
Community centers (4%)31                 25                           2,967                 101
Ambulances (1%)2/                         6                           3,743                  29
1/  Data obtained from State database.
2/  Percentage of all subprojects implemented in the State.
Source: Bank/FAO Evaluation (Draft), 1997



- 83 -
TABLE 10. BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS'
PARAIBA PROJECT (Ln. 2860-BR)
STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE
FISCAL                                      Negotiations                                     TOTAL
YEAR                                      through Board
Preparation      Appraisal        Approval       Supervision    Completion
STAFF WEEKS
1987          32.4            17.4             9.0                                            58.8
1988                                                            10.4                           10.4
1989                                                             7.8                           7.8
1990                                                            13.7                           13.7
1991                                                            10.1                           10.1
1992                                                             8.0                           8.0
1993                                                            10.5                           10.5
1994                                                             9.3                           9.3
1995                                                             5.2                           5.2
1996                                                             4.1                           4.1
1997                                                             6.6            3.5            10.1
Total         32.4             17.4            9.0               85.7            3.5          148.0
US$'000
1987          49.6            34.1            18.8                                           102.5
1988                                                            22.0                          22.0
1989                                                            17.0                          17.0
1990                                                            32.0                          32.0
1991                                                            21.3                          21.3
1992                                                            14.7                           14.7
1993                                                            19.3                          19.3
1994                                                            16.6                          16.6
1995                                                             7.1                           7.1
1996                                                             6.3                           6.3
1997                                                             9.4            6.6           16.0
Total         49.6            34.1            18.8              165.7            6.6          274.8
1  Total costs (labor only) for period 1987 to 1997.
Source: COS



- 84 -
TABLE 10. BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS'
MARANHAO PROJECT (Ln. 2862-BR)
STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE
FISCAL                                      Negotiations                                     TOTAL
YEAR                                      through Board
Preparation     Appraisal         Approval       Supervision    Completion
STAFF WEEKS
1986         13.5            32.3                                                            45.8
1987                         10.1             6.5                                            16.6
1988                                                           15.4                           15.4
1989                                                            7.6                           7.6
1990                                                           12.6                           12.6
1991                                                           12.9                          12.9
1992                                                            9.9                           9.9
1993                                                           13.1                           13.1
1994                                                            7.9                           7.9
1995                                                           10.5                          10.5
1996                                                            6.9                           6.9
1997                                                            5.8            3.4            9.2
Total         13.5           42.4             6.5              102.6            3.4          168.4
US$'000
1986         27.0            56.0                                                            83.0
1987                         16.3            13.7                                            30.0
1988                                                           26.3                          26.3
1989                                                            9.2                           9.2
1990                                                           23.3                          23.3
1991                                                           19.2                          19.2
1992                                                           15.3                          15.3
1993                                                           23.3                          23.3
1994                                                           11.9                          11.9
1995                                                           14.9                          14.9
1996                                                           10.5                          10.5
1997                                                            8.9            7.1           16.0
Total        27.0            72.3            13.7              162.8            7.1          282.9
Total costs (labor only) for period 1986 to 1997.
Source: COS



- 85 -
TABLE 10. BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS'
ALAGOAS PROJECT (Ln. 2863-BR)
STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE
FISCAL                                     Negotiations                                    TOTAL
YEAR                                     through Board
Preparation     Appraisal        Approval       Supervision    Completion
STAFF WEEKS
1986         15.3                                                                          15.3
1987         16.7           12.4             7.9                                           37.0
1988                                                          11.7                         11.7
1989                                                           0.8                          0.8
1990                                                          13.4                         13.4
1991                                                          10.1                         10.1
1992                                                           9.5                          9.5
1993                                                          13.1                         13.1
1994                                                          10.6                         10.6
1995                                                           7.1                          7.1
1996                                                           4.5                          4.5
1997                                                           3.2           3.5            6.7
Total        32.0            12.4            7.9              84.0            3.5         139.8
uss'ooo
1986          15.9                                                                          15.9
1987          34.6           25.7            16.5                                           76.8
1988                                                          21.2                          21.2
1989                                                            1.9                          1.9
1990                                                          25.6                          25.6
1991                                                           14.8                         14.8
1992                                                           17.0                         17.0
1993                                                          25.2                          25.2
1994                                                           17.0                         17.0
1995                                                           9.9                           9.9
1996                                                           6.4                           6.4
1997                                                           4.6            6.6           11.2
Total         50.5            25.7           16.5             143.6            6.6         242.9
1  Total costs (labor only) for period 1986 to 1997.
Source: COS



- 86 -
TABLE 11. BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
PARAIBA PROJECT (Ln. 2860-BR)
Days    Specialized     Performance Rating
Stage of       Month/   No. of    in       staff skills    Impl.      Develop.      Types of
Project Cycle    Year   persons  field    represented      Status    Objectives     problems
Through          5/86       3       8      Ag, IrrEng        n/a        n/a            n/a
Appraisal
Appraisal        12/86      1       10      FinAnal          n/a        n/a           n/a
through Board
Approval
Board            9/87       1       9       FinAnal          2           2          Inst, Man
Approval
through
Effectiveness
Supervision      3/88       1       10      FinAnal          2           2            Man
2/89      1        3          Ec            2           2            Fin
5/89      1       21       FinAnal          2           2          Fin, Pol
12/89      2       11      FinAnal          2           2            Fin
6/90      2       12       FinAnal,         3           2         Fin, Man
IrrEng
5191a/     1                FinAnal          3          2          Fin, Man
6/92             Updated 590                2           1            Fin
6/93             Updated 590                2           2            Fin
11/93      1       4         AgEc           2           1            Fin
5/94      1        5        AgEc            S           S            n/a
5/95             Updated 590                S           S            n/a
9/95      1        3         Ag             S           S            n/a
6/96             Updated 590                S           S            n/a
8/96      1        4         Ag             S           S            n/a
a/ No Aide Memoire or Back-to-Office Report on file.



- 87 -
TABLE 11. BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
MARANHAO PROJECT (Ln. 2862-BR)
Days    Specialized    Performance Rating
Stage of        Month/   No. of   in       staff skills   Imp].    Develop.       Types of
Project Cycle    Year   persons  field   represented       Status    Objectives    problems
Appraisal        12/85      7       33   Ag, AgEc, Ec,      n/a        n/a           n/a
through Board                               FinAnal
Approval
8/86i     1       19        Anth          n/a        n/a          n/a
Supervision      4/88       5       17     Ag, AgEc,         2          3         Fin, Inst
Eng, IrrEng
9/88 V'    1       5        Anth           n/a        n/a          n/a
1/89      1       2          Ag            2          2         Fin, Inst
5/89      3       12      Ag, AgEc,        2          2         Fin, Inst
IrrEng
12/89      1       6         Ag            2          2            Fin
6/90       1      11         Ag            2          2           Fin
10/90      1      10       IrrEng          2          2            Fin
6/91            Updated 590                3          3            Fin
6/92            Updated 590                2          1            Fin
6/93            Updated 590                2          2           Fin
11/93      1       5         Ag            2          2           Man
6/94       1       4         Ag            S          S            n/a
5/95            Updated 590                S          S            n/a
7/95       1      19         Ag            S          S            n/a
4/96       1       2         Ag            S          S            n/a
Completion       11/96      1       3          Ag            S          S            n/a
a/ Mission dealing with outstanding land conflicts involving Amerindian populations.



- 88 -
TABLE 11. BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
ALAGOAS PROJECT (Ln. 2863-BR)
Days    Specialized     Performance Rating
Stage of        Month/   No. of    in       staff skills    Impl.    Develop.       Types of
Project Cycle     Year   persons  field   represented       Status    Objectives    problems
Through          10/86       3       11    Ag, FinAnal       n/a         n/a           n/a
Appraisal
Appraisal         6/87       1       3          Ag           n/a         n/a           n/a
through Board
Approval
Supervision      12/87       3       12    Ag, AgEc, Ec       2           2           Adm
7/88       1       12       AgEc            2          2            Fin
7/89       1       12       AgEc            2          2          Fin, Inst
12/89      1       4         AgEc           2           2            Fin
5/90      2        8     AgEc, IrrEng       3          3       Fin, Inst, Man
10/90      1       5         AgEc           3           3           Inst
6/91             Updated 590                3          3            Fin
6/92             Updated 590                3          2            Man
9/92       1       5         Ag             2          2            Fin
6/93             Updated 590                3          2            Man
11/93      1       4          Ag            3           2       Fin, Inst, Man
4/94       1       9          Ag            S          S            n/a
7/94             Updated 590                S          S            n/a
5/95             Updated 590                U          S            Fin
10/95      1       3          Ag            U           S         Adm, Fin
6/96             Updated 590                S          S            n/a
Completion       10/96       1       3          Ag            U           S           Fin
2/97             Updated 590                U          S            Fin



- 89 -
TABLE 12. DISBURSEMENT PERFORMANCE OF THE NRDP BY STATE
(US$ million)
State            Original Loan      Disbursement at           Actual           Outstanding
Amount          Reformulationl/       Disbursement            Balance
after
Reformulation
Paraiba                       60.0                 21.4                 38.0                  0.6
Maranhao                      84.0                 22.8                 57.4                  3.8
Alagoas                       42.0                 10.6                 11.6                 19.8
Total                        186.0                 54.8                107.0                 24.2
1/ Reformulation became effective on September 28, 1993.
Source: Bank/FAO Evaluation (Draft), 1997



- 90 -
TABLE 13. NUMBER OF MUNICIPALITIES REACHED BY NRDP
(as of December 31, 1996)L
State                             Number of Municipalities 2                         Implemented/completed projects per
municipality
In the       In the      With implemented/completed projects
State    Project Area
Total        PAC        FUMAC           Total        PAC        FUMAC
Paraiba                     171          171           180          155           25           12.8          9.4          34.1
Maranhao                    136          135           148          122           26           20.7         17.3          36.7
Alagoas                      97           57           58            55            3           12.8         12.4          19.7
Total                      404           301          364           312          52            15.4        13.0           30.2
1/ Does not include municipalities reached in final stage of projects.
2/ The sum of the PAC and FIUMAC municipalities may exceed the total number of municipalities in the project area because some original PAC
municipalities later became FUMAC.
Source: Bank/FAO Evaluation (Draft), 1997



- 91 -
TABLE 14. AVERAGE COST OF PAC/FUMAC SUBPROJECTS, BY TYPE AND BY STATE
STATE                                                         Average Cost by Type 2
(US$)
Manioc   Farm        Water         Water      Small   Rural       Rice        House       Small-    Bridge   Clothes
flour   tractor     supply       supply      dam    electrif-  processing  improvement    scale               making
mill              (simplified    (all types)        ication                            irrigation
system) 3'
Paraiba              15,015    38,439        18,288       16,844   19,139    24,957     7,693             --    13,572         --   13,172
Maranhao              8,364    25,117        21,358       24,305   15,859    28,539    10,618         30,593    24,316     21,264    21,964
Alagoas              12,425    18,735        16,050       23,625    9,615    27,202        --             --    27,970     28,850        --
Bahia                 7,416    19,918        14,544       14,500   13,154    20,514    10,897         18,870     18,970    20,391    22,727
Ceara                18,526    37,676            --       21,840   27,324    22,650    24,273        25,298     29,616     28,114    26,910
Minas Gerais         26,591    31,998        28,517       27,400   24,157    31,911        --         32,745     18,351    31,444    19,839
Pernambuco           24,000    31,000        29,000       30,000   29,000    28,000    30,000         28,000    29,000     28,000    25,000
Piaui                 5,843    30,825        16,800        8,722   22,343    26,383     8,859         30,897     17,701    27,969    18,428
Rio Grande do Norte    18,692    33,700      17,200       22,172   28,603    19,407        --             --    25,020    18,337    20,796
Sergipe              11,300    29.035        30,500      29,601       --   23,692          --        24,437          --   25,935         --
Total                14,817    29,644        21,362       21,901   21,022    25,326    15,390        27,263      22,724    25,589    21,105
1/ Costs include beneficiary contributions.
2/ Nature and technical specification for the same type of project vary within and among states.
3/ Sistema simplificado de abastecimento de agua: water supply system usually comprising a high tank used to store water originating from different sources (surface
or pumped groundwater) and a simple gravity distribution network.
Source: Bank/FAO Evaluation (Draft), 1997



- 92 -
TABLE 15. NUMBER OF SUBPROJECTS IMPLEMENTED AND BENEFICIARIES REACHED
State           Original       Target at Reformulation         Achievement after
Target                                          Reformulation
Beneficiaries'   Subprojects   Beneficiaries2   Subprojects   Beneficiaries2
Implemented                  Implemented
Paraiba                    37,800           920         23,000         2,201        149,633
Maranhao                   73,000         1,600         32,000         3,065        324,890
Alagoas                    32,400           750         18,700           742         81,873
Bahia                      80,000         3,000         75,000         2,701        418,175
Ceara                     122,800         2,000         50,000         3,025        208,830
Minas Gerais               38,000         1,100         27,500          1,871       114,225
Pemambuco                  73,000           700         17,500          1,237       136,855
Piaui                      65,000         1,200         30,000          1,569       187,390
Rio Grande do Norte        35,000           700          17,500          769         71,300
Sergipe                    17,500           650         16,200           600         86,182
Total                     574,500        12,620        307,400        17,780       1,779,353
1  Number of families benefiting from the project at full development.
2  Number of families benefiting from PAC/FUMAC subprojects implemented.



- 93 -               Appendix
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
PARAIBA, MARANHAO AND ALAGOAS PROJECTS
(Loans 2860-BR, 2862-BR and 2863-BR)
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION



APPEND IX
GOVERNMENT OF THE STATE OF PARAIBA
SECRETARIAT OF PLANNING
NORTHEAST PROJECT/COOPERAR
Official letter n 126/97                    Joao Pessoa, June 9, 1997
Dr. Tiuilio Barbosa
Head, World Bank Office
Brasilia, DF
Dear Sir:
We herewith send you our comments on the "Implementation Completion Report - Brazil
- Northeast Rural Development Program."
1.    In item 50 (page 15, lines 06 to 07), we suggest removing the expressing dealing
with the high costs of FUMAC projects ("and incurring higher than necessary costs").
This occurred in the component of large-scale productive subprojects until the program
was reformulated, with which we agree.
However, we did not observe occurrences of this type in the FULMAC component.
As stated in the Bank's aide-memoire of 11-29-96, the average cost of community
subprojects in Paraiba is the lowest of all 10 states.
2.    We also suggest excluding, in the same item, on the last line ("except for election
period in 1994"). Even because the projects slated for release during this period were not
made effective. They were technically evaluated and released only at the end of the first
half of 1995.
3.    In item 51 (line 05), we suggest excluding the second-last sentence ("In Paraiba,
four year period"), since, in the years prior to 1995, electrification efforts were executed
under other programs, which makes a comparative time analysis difficult.
These are the corrections suggested based upon our analysis cf the above-mentioned
document. We are in agreement with the remaining body of the document.
Sincerely,
(signed)
Sonia Maria Germano de Figueiredo
General Coordinator



APPENDIX
GOVER-NO DO ESTADO DO MARANAO
SECRETARLA DE ESTADO DO PLANKEJAMENTO - SEPLAN
NUC LEO ESTADUAL DE PROGRAMA.S ESPECIAIS - NEPE
Sao Luis, June 2, 1997
Subject: Commerts on the Inplemeztation Completion Report
Loans 2860-BR, 2862-BR and 2863-BR
De;er Mr. Barbosa,
At your request, we have reviewed the above-mentioned report,
pazricu1arly on references to the State of Maranhao.
We would like to express our agreenment, in g-eneral termrns, with the
L-npressions given by the document, which appropriately reflects the
assessmnr: of project per,owma.nce.
Sincerely,
7r7s
g    Direof  SPE
.Mx. Tu'lio Barbosa
Head, World Bank Office in Recife
Recife - PE/BRAZfl



APPENDIX
GOVERNMENT OF THE STATE OF ALAGOAS
SECRETARIAT OF PLANNING - SEPLAN/AL
PAPP TECHNICAL UNIT/AL
Macei6, June 4, 1997
Dr. Tulio Barbosa
Head of World Bank Office, Recife
Recife - Pernambuco
Dear Dr. Barbosa:
I refer to the receipt of the Draft Completion Report for the Northeast Rural
Development Program -PAPP executed by the State under Loan 2862-BR. The following
are the comments requested on said document.
With respect to paragraph 71, we would like to inform you that, of the 96 water
supply systems that were implemented, only 66 were equipped with desalinization
equipment.
Finally, once this small correction is made, we wish to express our agreement with
the general content of the Report which, in our opinion, correctly reflects the Program's
actual performance in the State.
Sincerely,
(signed)
Erival Goncalves de Albuquerque
General Coordinator, PAPP/AL
cc: Dr. Marcelo Vieira - SEAIN/IPO



386 / 77o _ _ _ ____ _ f5 -- - -- IBRD 239
NORTHEAS  RURALDEVELOMENOB R A Z I L
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPh'ENT PROJECT - PARAiBA
AGRICULTURAL POTENTIAL DEFINED BY DEPENDABLE RAINFALL
.                          CLASSIFICAIION    DESCRIPTION                           -     ISOHIETS IN MILLIMETERS
CEARA                      /                         _        e RID      NOT SUITED FOR RAIN-FED AGRICULTURE     -      SELECTED ROADS
MUNCIPAL CAPITALS                                                           A LN I
X   Cz ARID    tIMlTED SUITA81LITF fOR RAIN FED AGRICULTURE  e   STATE CAPlTAL
$E.,AR'o   PR  CTION IOSSIELE FOR CROPS REOUIRING    S NATIONAL CAPITALOC                                                                                   N
TOA 3 TOMONTHS GROWING SEASON                                                                                                          OCEAN
MUNICIPAL EOUNDARIES
,  i  WET OR,   PRODUCTION POSSIELE 'OR CROPS          -      STATE EOUNDARIES
,ERING A GOOD LEVEL OF MOISTURE
OAUE UcG UACFUR OING S OR MORE MONTHS         REGION EOUNDARY
- - -NERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
11GREAVES. AFTI,
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE
CEARAG-A-
H   F~~~~R~~~**R~~~~   ~ ~                     / ~~      RIO GRANDE
S.-                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PERNFAMRUICO
\T-- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LI/OOH~COLITRELSj0A   'FUGUIA
R AGNNA  Z I''
R9A  L 
PERNAMBUCO                                                                                                                                                                                      0.-           BA.
ELLIAETERS                                                      CP,XR        ADA
--                          /8 ;^o 5o ,5  E \u3u\uAr  l^aARGENTINA 
38-                                                                                               31-                                          \URUGUy              -RCH W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T R V






A14-                 ~~~~4'3                       42
r'         //   Project PrNojty A.o                                                                                                                   B  R A  Z  I L
t4oboooI Reserve ond Slotl Pork                                                                                          RURA                                     PROGRAM
- Pro1ed Plo..i. g Reg.on od or.s                  CoSroPo.k                                      NORTHEAST   RURAL  DEVELOPMENT    PROGRAM
*     RegiooIMOffsMesofEMATER                                    stododo          rJ\                         NORTHEAST  RURAL  DEVELOPMENT  VII PROJECT
Ongoin Projec                                                               W                                                    (MARANHAO)
*     oisting Resoorirh Sobsttoos-
Fotlur Irigo-on Schemes
ndi  R-seres' 
Acerogo AIeol Rofoll   llielersi                                                                                          A        a  n         c              c  e       n
-             hio,nm Rood.Jc:   E                                                                                 [ 
Municinpol Roondonres                                                  ;                    /                                                       P
Stol R-cdorne
3.
Port  nci>/5//  e PdORtd * ro2ie
Ri- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~        ~        ~       ~        ~        ~       ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       -
M-k/</// Suco>s  o  do No lso B-.6o do Poro. ho
Too "  0,                                                                                                                                        Brosinlo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d R.,  d
cooOeeoUeOocrds, o oo                                                                                                                           R- G
4-                                                                                                                                                      4~~~8)4  4 
/%   F_lul d  om                           X         (\<_//                                               -0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
/   f    Y    enzdlso 1*81@ ~     ~      Ad   Al
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d                                                          ;.o. j2looo               1,250
rs 7 r-s D@6O r   6 1 4  N_\                >                                                                   /           A                               r? <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  1,0  SO20
nYtElx4>>-x~ ~ ~~~~~                         %|t                                                                        ; {3~~~ W  GENTENS t A-%ef  
9   ;5.  47  4;  X 45 4!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OLMIAd,  UUU  






I8RPD 2M97
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                                                                                     8 3a
Northeast Rural Development Project - Alagoas
AGRICULTURAL POTENTIAL DEFINED BY DEPENDABLE RAINFALL                                                                                      /
Cbr   rrOn                ~~~~~~~~~750 -   Whayets in 1nlfi,,,e3te                                           < 
-   V*ycred    hatbenanha ~     - -  ----- -Payrd Roods urn  ConstmchOn 
-   Pa),ods~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,s,
1     S, 3 a    an  rw  f<> c  tlang a 3 1. 4       Mun civai Cap,tais       wa        _-f =>  :
-  tl monesGr7on 2.3~~111-                                State captal -#,n-w/   . 
ao0 < 500~~~4                                                             State3 Bourda-e      
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ai~ Cata /- /N.-/ .l_w_s                                                                                            S
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N%.1 d. NV9 -' 
"^-r-r*   t        '   20   3t7  o   50                  (           0//;    \           <         '3                           \~    ~7        BRAZIL        A c-
. _a1Klrr3Ss|                                                                                          -i3          5<gDo.   rl 978aii
_ A7 H. I Ao<<  
A_s_7 a o d \ s-y - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~".                                                       C-    7C
o30  j                                                                't                                            fO*xt   -3  /       -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-e<7rBR ZI
33*n(r  {,   sX 3r7  37z7                  .,X                                3til7                                                     CH 797~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ B-ii
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4'-









IMAGING
Report No:            16765
Type:      ICR



