                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                                    Report No: 27483

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                               (IDA-32090 PPFI-P9270 PPFI-P9271)

                                              ON A

                                             CREDIT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDRs 18.4 MILLION (US$25.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                             TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF YEMEN

                                             FOR A

                     SANA'A WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT




                                        December 30, 2003




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Middle East and North Africa Region

        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

   (Exchange Rate Effective October 31, 2003)

         Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YR)
              1,000 YR = US$ 5.62
                 US$ 1 = 178 YR

               FISCAL YEAR
          January 1    December 31

    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BOD        Biological Oxygen Demand
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
ESO        Environmental Safety Officer
GOY        Government of Yemen
IDA        International Development Agency
IRR        Internal Rate of Return
l/s        Liters per Second
mg/l       Milligrams per Liter
MWE        Ministry of Water and Environment
NPV        Net Present Value
NWRA       National Water Resources Agency
NWSA       National Water and Sanitation Authority
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PMU        Project Management Unit
PPF        Project Preparation Facility
PSP        Private Sector Participation
SLWSSC Sana'a Local Water Supply and Sanitation Services Corporation
TS         Technical Secretariat
UFW        Unnacounted-for Water
UWSSP      Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Project




        Vice President:     Christiaan J. Poortman
      Country Director      Mahmood A. Ayub
       Sector Manager       Françoise Clottes
     Task Team Leader       Lizmara Kirchner

                                      REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                    SANA'A WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
    6. Sustainability                                                                11
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
    9. Partner Comments                                                              15
    10. Additional Information                                                       15
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             19
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28
    Annex 8. Borrower's ICR                                                          29

Map No. IBRD 29711

Project ID: P005907                                                  Project Name: RY SANA'A WS/SANITATION
Team Leader: Lizmara Kirchner                                        TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 30, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: RY SANA'A WS/SANITATION                                  L/C/TF Number: IDA-32090; PPFI-P9270;
                                                                                                     PPFI-P9271
   Country/Department: REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                  Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (55%); Sewerage (33%); Central government
                            administration (6%); Sub-national government administration (6%)
                  Theme: Other urban development (P); Pollution management and
                            environmental health (P); Other financial and private sector
                            development (P); Municipal governance and institution building (P);
                            State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/01/1997                                     Effective: 08/01/1999                06/30/1999
     Appraisal: 02/10/1999                                         MTR:                             07/01/2001
      Approval: 05/13/1999                                      Closing: 09/30/2002                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN/Ministry of Water and Environment
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Mahmood A. Ayub                                Inder Sud
Sector Director:                Emmanuel Forestier                             Jean-Claude Villiard
Team Leader at ICR:             Somin Mukherji                                 Amir Al-Khafaji
ICR Primary Author:             Lizmara Kirchner


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1.    The project development objectives were to (a) address emergency sewer installation and water network
rehabilitation needs in Sana'a; (b) increase the availability of urgently needed potable water in the city; (c) improve
the efficiency of water and wastewater services in the city in a physically and financially sustainable manner; and
(d) prepare the sector for significant private sector participation.

3.1.2.    The objectives and design of the project need to be assessed in the context of (i) Yemen's extreme scarce
water resources (only 2 percent of the world average); (ii) increasing water shortages, especially in the upland
regions due to the rapid rate of groundwater depletion; (iii) low managerial and technical capacity of its
institutions, and (iv) the insufficient cash flow in the sector to service debt or provide adequate funding needed for
new investments.

3.1.3.    Given these challenges, the project objectives were responsive and relevant, and reflected the high priority
the Government of Yemen (GOY) placed in the water and sanitation sector. The project supported the
implementation of the GOY's sector strategy approved by the Cabinet in 1997.                   The strategy adopted a
decentralized approach to resolving the sector's managerial and financial issues, and envisaged the establishment
of autonomous and financially self-sufficient regional water and wastewater corporations.

3.1.4.    The project's objectives were consistent with the 1996 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goals of
supporting sustainable water resource development, through the efficient use of water resources and the building of
institutional capacity. The objectives are also relevant to the current CAS (of August 2002), which has as one of its
main objectives to ensure environmental sustainability, particularly with regards to the efficient and equitable
management of water resources. With the benefit of hindsight, the project's objectives could have placed more of
an emphasis on linkages with efficient management of water resources, in addition to the focus placed on
efficiency of use and increasing the bulk water supply available.

3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1.    The original objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1.    The project was designed to meet the above objectives through five components:

3.3.2.    Water Supply and Distribution (cost: US$4.9 million). This component contributes to the achievement
of objectives (a) and (c), as it planned to finance the rehabilitation of the water distribution network in the Hasabah
neighborhood, an area considered to have high water losses. It included the supply and installation of pipelines (27
km), increasing the number of house connections by 12,500 and carrying out an assessment of the network aimed
at leak detection and repair.

3.3.3.    Sewerage (cost: US$7.7 million). This component also contributes to the achievement of objectives (a)
and (c), as it planned to finance the construction of a sewerage network in the Akama neighborhood, and a sewer
trunk main that would connect it to a new wastewater treatment plant under construction (financed by the Arab
Fund). The additional sewerage network included 30 km of pipelines installed, 1,060 sewerage house connections
and the demolition of up to 3,100 cesspools along the sewer routes. In addition, this component was to finance the
preservation of the site of the existing wastewater treatment plant for future expansion of wastewater treatment
facilities, and a study on sludge and wastewater re-use.

3.3.4     Water Resources (cost: US$7.6 million). This component is directly related to objective (b), since it
aimed at increasing the quantity of urgently needed potable water, mainly through: (i) drilling and equipping new
boreholes (up to six) at the Al-Sabeen neighborhood and rehabilitating existing boreholes; (ii) establishing a water
development program, which entailed the surveying of existing wells and their yields, as well as conducting a field
survey to identify promising areas for the development of new resources for water supply in the Sana'a Basin; and



                                                          - 2 -

(iii) providing the technical assistance needed to prepare detailed engineering designs for the mobilization of the
development areas proposed by the field survey. Activities (ii) and (iii) were to be implemented by the National
Water Resources Authority (NWRA), and were intended to be complemented by the Sana'a Basin Water
Management Program, also under preparation at the time this project was being prepared.

3.3.5.    Technical Assistance and Institutional Capacity Building (cost: US$5.3 million). This component was
to finance technical assistance to GOY during the project's preparation and implementation phases, as well as the
operating costs of the Project Management Unit (PMU) and the Executive Board of the Sana'a Branch; therefore,
contributing to the achievement of objective (c). At the preparation stage, technical assistance was provided,
through a project preparation facility (PPF), in (i) the preparation of a water and wastewater master plan for
Sana'a, (ii) the preparation of the environmental assessment and mitigation plan for the civil works to be
implemented by the project, and (iii) the preparation of the initial development plans, feasibility studies, detailed
designs and bidding documents for the water and sewerage works to be implemented under the project.

3.3.6.    During implementation, this component planned to finance technical assistance and capacity building
activities, including: (i) supervision of the water and sewerage works to be implemented; (ii) studies on tariff,
regulation and public awareness; (iii) the implementation of the environmental mitigation plan, including hiring
an environmental safety officer (ESO) to monitor its implementation; (iv) training of the Sana'a Branch staff; (v)
computer equipment for the Sana'a Branch and the Ministry of Energy and Water (MEW); and (vi) audit of
project accounts, as well as of the accounts of the Sana'a utility.

3.3.7.    Preparation of Follow-up Operation (cost: US$2.5 million). This component was directly related to the
achievement of objectives (c) and (d), as it financed assistance to GOY in carrying out the preparatory work to
facilitate private sector participation in the operation and management of the Sana'a utility. It included: (i) a study
on private sector participation options; (ii) preparation of bidding documents for the private sector option selected
by GOY, (iii) a study on streamlining the staff structure of the Sana'a Branch, and (iv) preparation of initial
development plans, feasibility studies, detailed design and bidding documents and environmental impact
assessments for planned investments to be undertaken by the follow-up project, the Urban Water Supply and
Sanitation Adaptable Program Credit (UWSSP).

3.3.8.    The project components were relevant to achieving the objectives outlined above, given their focus on
increasing the bulk water supply, improving sanitary conditions in target areas within Sana'a, and enhancing
operational and financial efficiency of the Sana'a Branch through technical assistance and net increase in the bulk
water supply. The project design had a transitional nature and a deliberate focus on issues that would be further
complemented by other parts of the planned sector program, such as the UWSSP, the Sana'a Basin Water
Management Program and the private sector. The design of the components could have benefited from addressing
more comprehensively issues that were critical to the sustainability of the sector, such as integrated water resources
management or improvements in the sector's management, operational and financial efficiencies.

3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1.    The project components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1.    The project was not reviewed by QAG.            Overall, the quality at entry is considered to have been
satisfactory. The PAD presented a thorough discussion of project alternatives considered, a solid rationale for the
proposed project, and a clearly stated strategy for the overall IDA involvement in the sector. In addition, it took
into account the lessons learned from previous water projects implemented in Yemen. This project was an effective
vehicle to show IDA's support to GOY's sector strategy, while signaling expectations on an advanced sector reform
agenda before considering a long-term commitment approach to the sector.

3.5.2.    Although the project performance indicators were generally appropriate, a better description of the project
components would have supported a more comprehensive and better-aligned set of output and outcome
performance indicators. As an example, while the cost-benefit analysis highlights the need for tariff increases,




                                                          - 3 -

these are not included in the set of output performance indicators to be monitored, which would eventually have an
impact on the achievement of the cost-recovery outcome indicator. The description of the water network to be
rehabilitated differs significantly in the cost-benefit analysis, the project description (Annex 2) and the output
indicators highlighted in project design summary (Annex 1).

3.5.3.   The potential risks identified for the project fell into two categories: (a) shortfall in counterpart funding,
and (b) government's commitment to move ahead with reform. The project design incorporated actions to
minimize the impact of these risks. In terms of counterpart funds, the project was limited in size, leading to
modest requirements, and a special account for counterpart funds was established under the control of the Project
Management Unit (PMU).          With regards to GOY's commitment to implement the sector reform, up-front
government action was required in ensuring that: (i) the initial tariff increases were implemented, and (ii) the
Sana'a Branch was established as a financially and operationally autonomous utility, with the understanding and
GOY's commitment that the Sana'a Branch would eventually be incorporated as a legally autonomous entity.
IDA's support for subsequent projects was linked to meeting key sector reform milestones, such as achieving sound
financial results and significant progress towards the award of an affermage, concession or management contract
for the Sana'a utility.

3.5.4.   In addition, substantial progress was made on implementation readiness, and by the time the project
became effective, three out of the four major civil works contracts (for a total of US$11 million) had been awarded
in compliance with World Bank procurement guidelines.

3.5.5.   With regards to implementation arrangements, most of the project implementation was to be carried out
by the PMU created within NWSA (reporting to the Executive Board of the Sana'a Branch), with the exception of:
(i) activities related to the design and implementation of the sector reform, which were to be carried out by a
Technical Secretariat (TS) that existed within the Ministry of Energy and Water (MEW); and (ii) activities related
to the establishment of the water development program for the Sana'a Basin, which were to be carried out by
NWRA. Although they could have adversely affected the degree of ownership felt by the TS and NWRA, the
implementation arrangements could have been simplified through the centralization of procurement processing at
the PMU level, given the limited capacity and implementation experience of the TS and NWRA. Under these
arrangements, the PMU would have been in charge of procurement processing, while actively collaborating with
and seeking input from the TS and NWRA, which would be in charge of supervising and ensuring satisfactory
implementation of these activities. In practice, this is what happened to the activities implemented by the TS.
However, the same was not the case for NWRA, since there was some resistance to the idea of having the PMU
carry out the procurement process. As a result, implementation of the activities under their responsibility suffered
major delays.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1.   Overall, the outcome of the project is marginally satisfactory with regards to achievement of its
development objectives. Most of the physical outcomes' initial targets have either been met or exceeded, and the
project played a critical role in the restructuring of the sector's institutional framework. However, long-term
financial sustainability of the Sana'a Local Water Supply and Sanitation Services Corporation (SLWSSC) did not
materialize.

4.1.2.   Objective (a): Address emergency sewer installation and water network rehabilitation needs in Sana'a.
Achieved. The urgent needs for sewer installation and network rehabilitation were addressed, with an additional
7,500 and 5,000 households being connected to the sewer and water systems respectively.                   Prior to the
implementation of the Akama sewer component, streets in the project area were damaged and flooded with raw
sewage that was environmentally hazardous. Today, the streets in this area are asphalted with sewage flowing
through underground sewer lines, providing for a much safer and healthier environment.

4.1.3.   Objective (b): Increase the availability of urgently needed potable water in the city of Sana'a. Partially
Achieved. Provision of water supply and wastewater services has somewhat improved, with water consumption



                                                         - 4 -

increasing by 13 percent. Project areas that used to get water once every week are now assured to have water once
every four days. Although there has been a 33 percent increase in water production as a result of the wells drilled
under this component, other wells in the network had to be shut down, due to either collapse or need for major
maintenance and/or rehabilitation work. Therefore, the increase in net water consumption has been lower than
expected. In addition, the implementation of the planned activities related to water resources management suffered
major delays. The study on the establishment of the water development program was completed only in May 2003,
and the project as well as the other sector operations that were under preparation at the time of implementation did
not benefit from incorporating the input of such an important strategic activity to the sector.

4.1.4.   Objective (c): Improve the efficiency of water and wastewater services in the city in a physically and
financially sustainable manner.      Not Achieved.      The additional quantity of water consumed, coupled with
compounded tariff increases of 182 percent between 1999 and 2001, have enabled SLWSSC to improve its
financial standing. However, the company was not able to comply with the project's revenue covenant, which was
to cover its current operating and maintenance expenses before depreciation, as well as to self-finance 5 percent of
investments flows.     The nonachievement of this target highlights the serious management, operational and
financial efficiency issues that prevail in the sector.

4.1.5.   Objective (d): Prepare the sector for significant private sector participation. Achieved. The Sana'a
branch of NWSA was converted into a fully autonomous corporation, the SLWSSC, in April 2000. To date,
another 12 branches of NWSA have been made autonomous and grouped under six local corporations. In addition,
the government took serious steps, through the implementation of an action plan, to prepare the sector for private
participation in the management of the SLWSSC, which included carrying out a transparent bidding process for
the award of a lease contract. Unfortunately, in spite of two extensions of the bid submission date, none of the
pre-qualified bidders submitted an offer. GOY is currently pursuing a management contract as an alternative to
bringing in private sector participation in the management of SLWSSC. The management contract is expected to
be in place by late 2004.

4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1    Water Supply and Distribution (actual cost: US$3.7 million). The implementation of this component is
marginally satisfactory. By the closing date, 30 km of water pipes were installed (compared to the estimate of 27
km at appraisal), with over 21,500 water meters installed or replaced in Hasabah and other neighborhoods in
Sana'a (compared to the estimate of 12,000 at appraisal) by the SLWSSC. In addition, 8,500 meters are available
to SLWSSC for future needs. However, the number of households added to the system stands at only 5,000
(13,000 short of the appraisal estimate), mainly due to the fact that adding households to the system was to be
implemented by SLWSSC, as opposed to the private contractor that performed the rehabilitation of the network.
Given SLWSSC's limited capacity, only a small fraction of the planned households were actually connected to the
system.

4.2.2.   Although reduction in unaccounted for water (UFW) in the project areas is listed as a monitoring
indicator, it was not possible to single out the project area and measure a baseline UFW for comparison, especially
given the fact that many of the boreholes operated by SLWSSC had faulty meters, if any. In addition, given the
ongoing efforts to bring a private operator to operate the SLWSSC, GOY and IDA agreed that the network
assessment aimed at leak detection and repair should be carried out by the private partner to come on board and not
by SLWSSC. At the time of preparation, the overall UFW was estimated to be about 50 percent for NWSA as a
whole. If one looks at the 1999 figures of the gap between water consumption and water production, the estimate
UFW for the Sana'a Branch stood at 32 percent. Given these estimates, the network rehabilitation by itself did not
have an impact in the reduction of UFW, since in 2002 it was estimated to be at 36 percent in Sana'a (using the
same methodology for calculation of UFW). The fact that there has been an increase in UFW after the project's
implementation could be indicative of the fact that initial levels of UFW may have been under estimated, or that
other portions of the network are deteriorating at a fast pace and need urgent attention. The latter is in part
evidenced by the experience with the implementation of water resources component, whose impact was affected by
SLWSSC's need to shut down a number of wells that either collapsed or are in need of major maintenance work
(see details below). In addition, it is likely that this issue needs to be approached in a wholistic manner, with a




                                                          - 5 -

major region/country-wide effort placed towards reducing leakages, eliminating illegal connections, and fostering
community awareness of the negative impacts these losses bring to all stakeholders.

4.2.3.   Sewerage (actual cost: US$8.0 million). The implementation of this component is satisfactory. In
Akama, 35 km of sewer pipes were installed (5 km above target) connecting around 7,500 households, representing
a 33 percent increase in overall sanitation coverage (10 percent above the estimated target). In addition 3,000
cesspools were demolished (against an appraisal estimate of 3,100), and a fence was placed around the property of
the old wastewater treatment plant, as a way to preserve it for future expansion needs. The increase in wastewater
amounts that reach the new wastewater treatment plant from the implementation of this component is estimated to
be around 800,000 cubic meters per year (2,192 cubic meters per day on average). All of the environmental issues
and potential negative impacts related to the implementation of the works were dealt with in a satisfactory manner.


4.2.4.   However, these important improvements were not complemented by the projected improvements in the
quality of effluent of the wastewater treatment plant being financed by the Arab Fund. The new wastewater
treatment plant, financed by the Arab Fund and completed in mid-2000, is experiencing technical and capacity
problems, due to the fact that it was designed for a raw sewage concentration (i.e., BOD) of 500 mg/l, which is
almost three times lower than the average of incoming sewage in Sana'a, BOD of 1,363 mg/l. The plant's design
and implementation was carried out by a reputable leading firm in this field. The project preparation team
adequately checked that the plant's planned capacity would be able to process the additional sewage generated by
the implementation of the Akama sewage network and included a study on wastewater re-use and sludge
management as an activity to be financed under the project, when the inexistence of a plan to deal with these issues
became evident during preparation.

4.2.5.   The plant is currently operating near its treatment capacity (35,000 cubic meters per day), with an average
estimated incoming flow rate of 26,900 cubic meters per day in 2001. Recognizing the potential impact of this
issue on the long-term sustainability of the investments already made, GOY requested IDA's assistance in
reviewing the operational efficiency of the newly constructed wastewater treatment plant. Therefore, the scope of
the planned study on wastewater re-use and sludge management was expanded and proposed modifications to deal
with the higher sewage concentration in the medium-term, and bring the wastewater treatment plant's capacity up
to the planned 50,000 cubic meters per day.        These modifications are expected to be implemented before the
incoming waste overloads the treatment plant's current capacity, and will be financed by the Arab Fund and GOY.
A covenant relating to the implementation of these modifications has been added to the recently approved Sana'a
Basin Water Management Program, as a way to ensure that they are carried out.

4.2.6.   Water Resources (actual cost: US$5.8 million).           The implementation of this component is rated
unsatisfactory. Implementation of the water resource development program suffered significant procurement and
implementation delays, given NWRA's limited capacity and lack of implementation experience, and was completed
only in May 2003. Delays in implementation were due to the difficulty encountered in recording the 13,000 wells
in the Sana'a Basin, whose locations for the most part were not known in advance. This portion of the component
was extremely important in terms of moving forward an agenda of integrated management of water resources, and
the study outcomes could have been valuable not only in providing input to the preparation of the Sana'a Basin
Water Management Program, but also in bringing to the fore and highlighting for government follow up issues
related to the efficient management of water resources.

4.2.7.   As a result of the delay in the completion of the study, very limited time was available for the preparation
of the engineering and resource mobilization of the proposed development plans. Follow up activities will be
implemented under the recently approved Sana'a Basin Water Management Program, which has as an objective to
increase the quantity and the useful life of available water resources within the Sana'a Basin.

4.2.8.   In terms of increasing the quantity of water supplied, one borehole was rehabilitated and fourteen new
boreholes have been drilled and equipped (6 in Al-Sabeen and 8 in other areas of Sana'a) compared to the six that
had originally been planned. In addition, bulk meters were purchased and installed in all of the 70 boreholes




                                                         - 6 -

operated by SLWSSC. The total production yield from the boreholes financed by the project is 200 liters per
second (l/s), which corresponds to a 33 percent increase in production (the increase in production goes up to 300
l/s or 50 percent if one assumes these wells will be operating 24 hours a day, which is not the case mainly due to
electricity shortages). However, the increase in water consumption amounted to only 50 l/s over the project
implementation period, since SLWSSC had to shut down other wells in the Sana'a area due to the fact that they
have either collapsed or are in need of major maintenance or rehabilitation works, and a few of the new wells only
supply local networks.

4.2.9.    Technical Assistance and Institutional Capacity Building (cost: US$4.50 million). Implementation of
this component is rated satisfactory. A PPF was used to provide GOY with technical assistance during the project
preparation period and ensured implementation readiness. During implementation, the following studies and
activities aimed at providing GOY with technical assistance and building institutional capacity were completed: (i)
technical assistance was provided for the supervision of the construction of the water and sewerage works
implemented under the project; (ii) at an early stage in implementation, it was agreed that a comprehensive public
awareness campaign should be carried out by the private operator expected to come on board; however, a public
awareness campaign on sector reform was carried out through mass media advertisements; (iii) a tariff study was
carried out and updated over time to estimate appropriate tariff levels to allow for the recovery of operating
expenses. Over the project implementation period, the government increased tariffs by a compounded average of
182 percent (30 percent in 1999, 30 percent in 2000 and 67 percent in 2001), a remarkable achievement.

4.2.10. During the project's preparation, GOY agreed to establish the Sana'a Branch as a financially and
operationally autonomous utility with a separate set of financial accounts. During implementation the project
financed the legal work required to convert the Sana'a Branch into a legally autonomous entity (the SLWSSC).
The successful corporatization of the Sana'a utility had a powerful demonstration effect and served as a catalyst to
the formation of the additional six local corporations, from 12 other branches of NWSA that were made
autonomous. In addition, given that the sector policy adopted by GOY envisaged the transformation of NWSA into
a regulator, a study to explore this transition was carried out. The study concluded that NWSA, in its current
set-up and mandate, should not become the regulator for the water sector, since it has limited capacity and is still
running the day-to-day operations of a number of branches that are still to be transformed into local corporations.
Subsequent dialogue on this issue resulted on an agreement to expand the study's scope and look into the possibility
and merits of forming a multi-utility regulator for both power and water sectors. The study is to be financed by the
UWSSP, and its implementation has suffered delays due to recent Cabinet changes and the establishment of a new
Ministry of Water and Environment.

4.2.12. The project financed some of the costs of the Executive Board of the Sana'a Branch until it was
incorporated in April 2000, as well as the PMU operating costs throughout project implementation. The PMU was
staffed with a project manager, an executive secretary, a project engineer and a financial manager. An assessment
of computer systems and office equipment for the MEW and SLWSSC was carried out, and the necessary
equipment and training was delivered to these institutions. Additional equipment was purchased following a
cabinet reshuffle, in which a separate Ministry of Water and Environment was established. This additional
purchase represented about 12 percent of the original contract for equipment.

4.2.13. An ESO was recruited by the PMU to supervise the implementation of the environment mitigation plan at
the project's onset; however, the ESO's performance was less than satisfactory. The recruitment of a replacement
ESO experienced delays due to the scarcity of local expertise in this area, and the PMU had to ensure that the
environmental mitigation plan was adhered to until a replacement ESO came on board. The environmental
mitigation plan was generally adhered to, and by the project closing date, all the environmental monitoring reports
were submitted to and reviewed by the Bank and found to be satisfactory.

4.2.14. Preparation of Follow-up Operation (cost: US$2.6 million). This component's implementation is rated
satisfactory. A study on privatization options was carried out, and as a result, the government decided to accelerate
the decentralization program and prepared an action plan, implemented as a way to prepare the sector for the
introduction of private sector participation in the management of SLWSSC through a lease contract.           A legal




                                                         - 7 -

expert firm (Black & Cassels, Canada) was hired to help GOY draft the request for qualifications, request for
proposals and contract documents for a lease contract for the operation of SLWSSC. Following a transparent
process in accordance with IDA guidelines, interested bidders declined to submit offers by the December 22, 2002
deadline. This lack of interest is mainly attributed to unfavorable trends in private participation in infrastructure in
recent years, as well as the perceived high risk associated with investments in the region mainly due to security
concerns. The failed transaction has led to a re-thinking of the approach to private participation in the sector, and
the introduction of a management contract is now being pursued under the UWSSP. The management contract is
expected to be in place by late 2004.

4.2.15. Although additional technical assistance was provided to SLWSSC to support the preparation of the
privatization process, its impact in terms of making substantial improvements to the actual management and
operation of the utility, as a way to make it more attractive to the private sector, was negligible. A baseline study
was carried out, and included a comprehensive survey of physical administrative and organizational infrastructure
of the SLWSSC. A workshop to present the study's outcome was held on May 2002. In addition, a training course
for using the database adopted following the study recommendations was organized for SLWSSC staff in May
2002. This database is being updated on a regular basis and is being used as a model for other local corporations.

4.2.16. A staff streamlining and training needs assessment was also carried out for SLWSSC, the study results
were disseminated in a workshop held in June 2002, and a budget of US$500,000 was earmarked to finance the
implementation of the study's recommendations. Due to delays on the implementation of the civil service reform
and modernization project, which would provide the overall framework on how public service redundancies were
to be handled by SLWSSC, the staff streamlining issue was delayed. In May 2003, SLWSSC submitted a proposal
for the compensation and discharge of 67 employees for a total amount of US$252,000, for which IDA could not
give its no objection, since it did not adhere to the recommendations of the streamlining study. The streamlining
of SLWSSC is being pursued by the UWSSP in conjunction with the anticipated award of the management
contract.

4.2.17. In addition, this component financed the preparation of an initial development plan, feasibility studies,
detailed design and bidding documents and environmental impact assessments for investments to be implemented
under the UWSSP in four major cities, namely Al-Mukalla, Al-Hodeidah, Sana'a and Taiz. All of these activities
have been completed, except for the tender documents, which are currently being finalized by GOY based on the
comments provided by the Bank.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1.   Calculations were performed using data provided by the Project Management Unit (PMU), and the
assumptions used in this ex-post analysis are the same as the ones stated in the PAD, except where noted below.
The economic net present values (NPV) of Hasabah Water Network Rehabilitation, Sabeen Wellfield Development
and Akama Sewer Network are all positive. They are higher than the appraisal estimates in the case of Hasabah
and Sabeen Wellfield Development but lower in the case of Akama Sewer Network. The economic rates of return
are significant and all positive, therefore confirming the appraisal assessment. The following table shows the
results obtained.

                             Economic        Economic      Economic      Economic
                               NPV at      NPV at ICR        IRR at        IRR at
                              appraisal        (US$)       appraisal        ICR
                               (US$)                          (%)           (%)
             Hasabah         1,556,000       3,395,000         23            32
             Sabeen          3,432,000       3,103,000         20            27
             Akama           2,319,000       1,204,000         33            25

4.3.2.   The discount rate used in the calculations of NPVs (financial and economic) is 12 percent, which is the
rate currently used to assess infrastructure projects in Yemen and differs from the 10 percent rate used at appraisal.
The main difference between the economic and financial flows for the Hasabah Water Network Rehabilitation and



                                                         - 8 -

Sabeen Wellfield Development are the savings obtained by switching from a high cost supply source (i.e., tankers)
to a lower cost of supply (i.e., the project). The data provided by the PMU show that these savings are significant
in the case of Hasabah and Sabeen. In the case of the Akama Sewer Network, the difference is the significant
increase in the value of properties associated with the improvement in sanitary disposal of waste water. Since a
property survey was not carried out, the appraisal estimates, which were judged likely, were retained in the
analysis.


4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1    The financial NPVs and the financial rates of return are given below:

                             Financial        Financial    Financial    Financial
                              NPV at        NPV at ICR       IRR at       IRR at
                             appraisal          (US$)      appraisal       ICR
                               (US$)                          (%)          (%)
             Hasabah         1,421,000        3,124,000        21           23
             Sabeen          3,395,000        770,000          20           16
             Akama          (2,778,000)     (2,664,000)       -8%          -3%


4.4.2.   The financial rate of return of the Hasabah Water Network Rehabilitation is about the same as the one
forecasted at appraisal. The slight difference observed is due to higher quantities of water sold and higher water
tariffs. In the case of Sabeen, the water delivered was higher than the appraisal forecast; however, the expected
tariff increases estimated at appraisal were too optimistic, and investment and operation and maintenance costs
were much higher than the appraisal forecast. The dampened financial rate of return still remains satisfactory. It
is very rare that a self-standing sewerage project is financially viable, and the Akama sewerage scheme is no
exception. The ex-post calculation of the financial rate of return confirms the appraisal assessment that the project
carries a negative financial rate of return. Sewerage tariffs are too low and the quantity of effluent transported by
the system in its early years is lower than what was forecasted at appraisal. Generally, the justification of sewerage
schemes does not rest on their financial returns, but on the positive externalities generated by the provision of the
safe disposal of sewage, such as the prevention of major diseases, lost days of work avoided, improved health and
environment, etc.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1.   The overall institutional development impact of the project is modest. Institutional capacity has been
strengthened at the project management unit level, and the overall financial and control systems of the PMU have
improved. However, the capacity building impact at SLWSSC has been limited to the supply and training on use
of new equipment and software.         Targeted strengthening of management practices and of system efficiency
improvements would have greatly benefited SLWSSC, but did not materialize.              During implementation, the
activities that would have had an impact in terms of efficiency improvements and strengthening of management
practices at SLWSSC, such as the leak detection and repair study, were deferred to be implemented by the private
partner to come on board. Transfer of knowledge to local counterparts seems to have been limited. Most of the
studies have been done by international consulting firms, and although in general the recommendations from these
studies have been adopted, capacity at the local level has shown some weaknesses in terms of appropriately making
active use of the analysis performed by the consultants before adopting the recommendations (i.e., the staff
streamlining study).

4.5.2.   A substantial change brought by the project is the formation of SLWSSC as an autonomous utility, which
served as a pilot for implementing GOY's institutional reform through decentralization. As a result of SLWSSC's
corporatization and the on-going dialogue between IDA and GOY, to date, 12 additional branches of NWSA have
been made autonomous and grouped under six local corporations. However, it is crucial that GOY place a high
priority on improvements in the management and operations of these corporations as a way to ensure their
sustainability.




                                                         - 9 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1.   In spite of the transparent process conducted by the government to bring private sector participation in the
operation and management of SLWSSC, none of the pre-qualified bidders put forth a bid for the award of a lease
contract for the utility. The lack of interest is mainly attributed to unfavorable trends in private participation in
infrastructure in recent years, as well as the perceived high risk recently associated with investments in the region
mainly due to security concerns. Weak financial, managerial and operational performance of the utility may also
have played a role in the lack of interest from the private sector.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1.   GOY has demonstrated a continued commitment to reforming and testing private participation in the
water sector. The tariff levels of SLWSSC increased significantly during the project implementation period (by a
compounded average of 182 percent), although the implementation of the 2001 tariff increase was delayed.

5.2.2.   However, GOY failed to pursue discipline in terms of enforcing SLWSSC's compliance with better
financial management and audit reporting. As a result of the late submission of SLWSSC's audit reports, and the
fact that they had a number of qualifications, the project received an unsatisfactory financial management rating
and was flagged for being in risky status. This issue of lack of transparency and accountability in financial
management is not specific to the water sector. Public sector governance has been identified as a core constraint to
progress in many sectors in Yemen, and improved governance is one of the main objectives of the current CAS. It
is important to note that the audits related to the project accounts were submitted by the PMU on time.

5.2.3.   In addition, the issue of technical and capacity problems experienced at the new wastewater treatment
plant could have been avoided, had GOY been more diligent in the review of the plant's design criteria and
construction to ensure that they conformed to specific country circumstances.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1.   Given the limitations in country implementation capacity, the PMU faced a number of issues related to
staff performance in the early stages of implementation, namely related to financial management and
environmental monitoring. Therefore, the PMU's initial financial performance was weak; however, after the PMU
recruited and trained a better qualified accountant, its financial performance improved substantially.

5.3.2.   The PMU's inability to find a qualified ESO during the project's initial phases led to overburdening of its
staff with this additional responsibility, and irregular monitoring and compliance with the environmental
monitoring plan, until a qualified consultant was identified at a later stage with the assistance from the Bank's
supervision team. Albeit delayed, all of the environmental monitoring reports were finalized and concluded that
overall, environmental issues were dealt with in a satisfactory manner. The reports were submitted to the Bank for
review by the project's closing date and found to be satisfactory.

5.4 Costs and financing:
5.4.1.   Total project cost is currently estimated at US$24.6 million, as opposed to the PAD estimate of US$28
million. As of October 31, 2003, a total of approximately US$22.67 million (94 percent) have been disbursed from
the IDA credit, and about US$1.93 million represented GOY's counterpart contribution.

5.4.2.   Savings were realized as a result of systematic utilization of international competitive bidding for major
contracts, and were in part off-set by unfavorable exchange rates. A portion was used to finance the drilling and
equipping of 8 additional exploratory boreholes, and to finance spare parts, pumping stations and bulk meters for
SLWSSC not envisaged during appraisal.

5.4.3.   The total cancelled balanced was of about US$1.7 million Although surplus funds were identified about
18 months before the closing date, GOY did not submit adequate proposals to spend these resources before project's
closing date.




                                                          - 10 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1.      The sustainability of project achievements is unlikely. Although there has been improvement in the
sector's overall framework and GOY is committed to continuing with reforms in the water sector, the management
and financial weaknesses of the sector institutions pose a serious risk to the long-term sustainability of project
achievements. In addition, current water resources management practices in Yemen are unsustainable, with
groundwater being pumped at an average rate approximately one and a half times that of natural recharge, also
posing a serious risk to the sustainability of project interventions.

6.1.2.      Given the transitional nature of the project, and considering that its explicit objective was to lay the
groundwork for the subsequent operation to take over, the sustainability of project achievements is highly
dependent upon the success of the follow-up operation (the UWSSP). The success of the activities planned under
the UWSSP will improve the project's sustainability prospects, by assuring that a private operator can be brought in
to manage SLWSSC, and that this private partner will have the necessary means to tackle the important issues
related to management, operational and financial efficiency of the corporation.              However, given the current
uncertainties with regards to finding an interested private partner, it is too early to make an assessment in this
regard.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1.      All of the physical assets built under the project are in the process of being transferred to SLWSSC. The
UWSSP currently under implementation is providing continuity in dialogue on sector reform. Given the lack of
interest on the part of the private sector for a lease contract to operate SLWSSC, a management contract alternative
is being pursued by the government and, if successful, might increase sustainability prospects of the project's
achievements.

6.2.2.      Below is a snapshot of the calculations used to track SLWSSC's compliance with the cost recovery
indicator. The line item denominated O&M Targets includes production costs (such as electricity, fuel oil and
chemicals, staff, maintenance), as well as overhead administrative costs. Depreciation expenses are not included,
and the investments made under this project were on grant terms. In spite of the tariff increases adopted by the
government, the cost recovery target was not achieved, and the financial situation of the SLWSSC continues to be
weak. Further tariff increases, as well as improvement in management practices and operational efficiencies are
needed in order to achieve sustainable cost recovery.

6.2.3.      In addition, it is important to note that the preparation team of the follow-up operation has found that the
maintenance currently being carried out by SLWSSC is inadequate and insufficient. Therefore, in phase I of the
UWSSP, US$10 million have been allocated to finance maintenance-related works of water and sanitation systems
in the Sana'a service area, once the private operator comes on board with the appropriate capacity to adequately
carry out these maintenance works.

Covenant target (YRL)                                     1999              2000                2001               2002
O & M Targets                                      (785,322,121)     (576,853,327)     (1,559,726,999)    (2,068,194,838)
Debt service from 2001
5 % of investments                                                                        (45,552,000)       (80,363,052)
Target =                                           (785,322,121)     (576,853,327)     (1,605,278,999)    (2,148,557,890)
Cash revenues                                       485,203,000       404,468,448        617,631,870       1,286,678,894
(Deficit) / Surplus IDA covenant                   (300,119,121)     (172,384,879)      (987,647,129)      (861,878,996)


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1.      The Bank's performance during project preparation was satisfactory. The project design was consistent
with the government's priorities and with the CAS.              The project preparation team showed flexibility and
responsiveness, by including the financing of the Akama sewer installation, which had a negative financial NPV



                                                             - 11 -

and IRR.     The team acknowledged the significant cross-subsidy that would be taking place (based on the
projections) within the utility to support this system, and that less expensive solutions may have been preferred.
The decision to finance this activity was based on the strong customer preference for a piped sewer network
expressed through household surveys and public consultation events. GOY also expressed a strong desire to have
built-up areas of the capital served only by a piped sewer system.

7.1.2.   With regards to the issue related to the wastewater treatment plant (financed by the Arab Fund), the
preparation team verified that the plant's design would be able to process the increased volume of sewerage
resulting from the installation of the Akama network, and included the financing of a study on wastewater and
sludge re-use policies when it became aware of the inexistence of a plan or policy to deal with this issue. With the
benefit of hindsight, one could say that the team misjudged the capacity of the firm contracted to build the plant,
and could have strongly advised the government to do a thorough check of the plant's detailed designs. This could
have either avoided or addressed at an earlier stage the technical and capacity problems currently being
experienced. In reality, given the fact that the plant was financed by the Arab Fund and implementation was
already under way during the project's preparation, it would have been unlikely for the team to get involved at the
level of detail that would have elicited the faulty design specifications.

7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1.   The Bank's performance during project implementation was satisfactory. Early in the implementation
phase, the project's task management was transferred to the country office until August 2001 (when the task
manager returned to Washington). While the remainder of the supervision team was based in Washington, having
the task manager in the field allowed for continuous and close supervision of activities to be carried out. Given the
close proximity and continuous monitoring done by the task manager, an average of one official supervision
mission per year was carried out. Periodic reporting on project implementation progress was carried out through
the regular updating of project status reports.

7.2.2.   The team was quick in identifying the technical and capacity issues with the new wastewater treatment
plant and in ensuring that the government would satisfactorily address this issue by expanding the scope of the
sludge and wastewater re-use study. In addition, the team provided prompt advice and assistance in resolving
procurement issues that came up during implementation, and actively assisted the PMU on key issues, such as the
recruitment of a qualified ESO. The team visited project sites frequently, and paid special attention to the adequate
implementation of the environmental mitigation measures.

7.2.3.   The incorporation of the Sana'a Branch into SLWSSC prompted changes in the implementation
arrangements. The PMU reporting lines shifted and it became a unit under the then Ministry of Electricity and
Water (now Ministry of Water and Environment). The supervision team ensured that the appropriate amendments
to the legal agreements were made, and that an "assumption agreement" was signed between SLWSSC and
NWSA, in which SLWSSC assumed the legal responsibilities that it had originally as a division of NWSA, namely
audit reporting and covenant compliance.

7.2.4.   With the benefit of hindsight, a more strategic approach to implementation, as opposed to mainly focusing
on the implementation of the civil works and restructuring the framework of the sector, could have yielded more
sustainable results. Under such an approach the focus would have been placed on the importance of an integrated
approach to the management of sector resources, as well as improvements in management, financial and
operational efficiencies of the corporation, and the physical works and sector restructuring would have been treated
as means to achieving these important outputs.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
7.3.1.   Based on the information provided above, the Bank's overall performance is considered satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1.   The Borrower's performance during preparation was satisfactory. After a year of concerted awareness
efforts by the donor community and several local stakeholders, the water issue finally rose to the top of the



                                                         - 12 -

government's agenda during the second half of 1997. There was close cooperation at the time of preparation
between the GOY and the Bank, and the government was keen to ensure the start of implementation activities
related to its approved water sector policy.       GOY demonstrated its commitment through the adoption and
implementation of a number of measures aimed at starting the sector reform, including tariff increases,
establishing a financially and operationally autonomous water and wastewater utility for Sana'a, defining its
geographical service territory and establishing its separate executive board.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1.    The government's implementation performance was satisfactory. GOY has implemented nearly all of the
policy measures it agreed to during project preparation, including the corporatization of SLWSSC and tariff
increases (30 percent in 1999, 30 percent in 2000 and 67 percent in 2001). However, it has not appropriately
enforced transparency in financial management and auditing rules, in terms of ensuring that SLWSSC accounts
are audited in a timely manner and free of qualifications.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1.    Overall the performance of the implementing agencies was satisfactory. Their staff had very limited
exposure to manage and implement Bank-financed projects. Their willingness to learn played a key role in
capacity building that ensured the satisfactory and timely completion of all physical components. However, limited
capacity caused delays in the procurement and implementation of technical assistance activities, which ultimately
delayed the overall project implementation, and resulted in the need for an extension of the project's closing date by
9 months.

7.6.2.    Although there has been significant delays in the submission of audit reports for the SLWSSC, audit
reports for the project accounts were delivered in a timely manner. In addition, with the exception of the covenant
related to the cost recovery target for SLWSSC, all of the other legal covenants were complied with.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1.    Based on the information above, overall borrower performance is considered satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Project Rationale and Design

l    A limited scope and a short implementation span are ideal to approach transitional situations, such as that
     encountered in Yemen at the onset of this project, in which the government had been reluctant to focus on
     policy and reform aspects of the sector as a whole in the past. The project demonstrated the Bank's support to
     the government's overall sector strategy and plans for reform, while reducing the investment risk and
     providing for an exit strategy in case GOY's commitment to reform weakened over time.

l    When acute scarcity is the main sector issue, it is best to avoid fragmentation of instruments and to address
     issues of long-term sustainability of water resource management together with issues of urban supply of water
     and sanitation.

Project Implementation

l    Thinking strategically throughout project implementation is critical to secure better outcomes. In this case, the
     earlier implementation of the strategic study included in the water resources component could have provided
     valuable insights for the preparation of the UWSSP and the Sana'a Basin Water Resources Management
     Project. Also, carrying out the leak and detection repair study early on - instead of leaving the task to the
     future private operator - could have highlighted some quick actions to be taken that could have had a more
     substantial impact overall in terms of increase in water consumption and reduction of UFW.

l    When planning a private transaction in a risky country, establishing at the onset an adequate fall-back option
     might prove critical to the overall success of the approach. Given the inherent difficulty of attracting private



                                                        - 13 -

   sector participation in Yemen's constrained institutional, political and security environment, it would have
   been useful to explore in advance possible alternative arrangements to improve the sector's operational and
   managerial efficiencies even in the absence of the private sector operator.

l  Contracting out the establishment of house connections to the private sector is, generally speaking, a good idea
   and should be encouraged in most situations.           Given SLWSSC's limited capacity, contracting out was
   particularly advisable in the case of Yemen, and in all likelihood, this measure would have sped up
   implementation of this activity and resulted in a higher number of households being connected to the system.

l  Supervision from the field is helpful when institutional capacity is scarce. Having the task management in the
   field during supervision was helpful in the early identification of implementation issues, such as the design
   problems with the wastewater treatment plant, and monitoring of the implementation of the environment
   mitigation plan.

Performance Indicators

l  It is important to set realistic objectives, especially in areas - such as cost recovery and reduction of losses -
   which are known for requiring major managerial change before results can improve. In this case, given the
   limited duration of the intervention (3 years) and the weak institutional capacity of the borrower, objectives
   and targets should have been set at lower levels.

l  In order to better guide design and supervision decisions, outcome indicators should be defined as closely as
   possible to direct measures of impact on beneficiaries, e.g., consistency of water supply and increase on the
   overall population served, rather than mileage of network rehabilitated. A good outcome matrix greatly
   facilitates the estimation of benefits; and, as a result, project-related arbitrages are made under a well-informed
   framework that takes into account the overall impact to the beneficiaries.

l  Outcome indicators and monitoring and evaluation efforts are useless without a solid initial baseline. Levels
   of UFW constitute a standard and quite acceptable indicator in water operations. In this case, however, the
   limited scope of the intervention, coupled with the absence of a credible baseline, meant that the indicator
   would remain marginally significative. It would have been best to recognize the challenge and avoid using
   this indicator as a performance measure.




                                                        - 14 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information

None.



                                             - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Outcome/Impact Indicators
              Indicator                  Baseline          Projected in PAD         Actual/Latest Estimate
Address emergency sewer installation and water network needs in Sana'a
    ·    Increase in sewerage              22,500          23 percent increase        33 percent increase
         coverage                        customers
    ·    One of the city's worst water      Na.                 One network             One network
         networks rehabilitated                                 rehabilitated           rehabilitated
Increase availability of potable water
    ·    Increase in raw water supply      600 l/s         20 percent increase       33 percent increase
    ·    Reduce unaccounted-for          32 percent           By 9 percent           4 percent increase to
         water                                                                       36 percent
Improve efficiency of water and wastewater services in the city
    ·    Sana'a branch to be             Not viable     Cover operating              Cost recovery target
         financially viable                             expenses, debt service       not achieved.
                                                        and 5% of investment
Output Indicators
              Indicator                  Baseline               Projected           Actual/Latest Estimate
Increase sewerage network in Sana'a
·   Additional sewer pipes installed        Na.                  30 km                      35 km
·   Completion of sewer trunk main          Na.            Sewer trunk main          Sewer trunk main
                                                           completed                 completed
·   Annual amount of wastewater            12,000              Additional                 Additional
    treated                                m3/day            500,000m3/year             800,000m3/year
                                                              (1,370m3/day)             (2,192m3/day)
Rehabilitation of water supply network
·   Water pipes rehabilitated               Na.                  27 km                      30 km
·   New customers added to the             65,000        18,000 new customers        5,000 new customers
    system                               customers
·   Old house connection meters             Na.                  12,500                     21,500
    replaced
Sana'a Branch ­ Private participation
·   PSP implementation plan approved by Cabinet            Cabinet approved PSP implementation plan
·   PSP contract is awarded                                No bids were submitted for a proposed lease
                                                           contract, PSP option is now being pursued
                                                           through a management contract.




                                                        - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     Appraisal        Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                      Estimate          Estimate             Appraisal
                         Component                                  US$ million        US$ million
1. Water Resources                                                       7.60                 5.80                   76
2. Water Supply and Distribution                                         4.90                 3.70                   76
3. Sewerage                                                              7.70                 8.00                  104
4. Technical Assistance and Capacity Building                            5.30                 4.50                   81
5. Preparation of Possible Future APL                                    2.50                 2.60                  100

Total Baseline Cost                                                     28.00               24.60
                            Total Project Costs                         28.00               24.60
                    Total Financing Required                            28.00               24.60


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.          Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                               15.95               1.70               0.00             0.00              17.65
                                      (14.20)             (1.51)             (0.00)           (0.00)            (15.71)
2. Goods                               0.00                1.05               0.15             0.00               1.20
                                       (0.00)             (1.03)             (0.13)           (0.00)             (1.16)
3. Services                            0.00                0.00               9.15             0.00               9.15
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)             (8.13)           (0.00)             (8.13)
   Total                               15.95               2.75               9.30             0.00              28.00
                                      (14.20)             (2.54)             (8.26)           (0.00)            (25.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                               14.12               0.07               0.27            0.00              14.46
                                      (12.37)             (0.06)            (0.24)            (0.00)           (12.67)
2. Goods                               2.26                0.30               0.18            0.00              2.74
                                       (2.26)             (0.27)            (0.17)            (0.00)           (2.70)
3. Services                            0.00                0.00               7.40            0.00              7.40
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (7.30)            (0.00)           (7.30)
   Total                               16.38               0.37               7.85            0.00              24.60
                                      (14.63)             (0.33)            (7.71)            (0.00)           (22.67)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
   managing the project.



                                                      - 17 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                     Percentage of Appraisal
       Component               Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                             IDA     Govt.       CoF.     IDA       Govt.       CoF.  IDA    Govt.   CoF.
1. Water Resources          7.00     0.60        0.00     5.07       0.73             72.4   121.7    0.0
2. Water Supply and         4.40     0.50        0.00     3.41       0.28             77.5    56.0    0.0
Distribution
3. Sewerage                 6.80     0.90        0.00     7.20       0.80             105.9   88.9    0.0
4. Technical Assistance and 4.30     1.00        0.00     4.39       0.11             102.1   11.0    0.0
Capacity Building
5. Preparation of Possible  2.50     0.00        0.00     2.59       0.01             103.6   0.0     0.0
Future APL




                                                  - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits



Sana'a ICR Ex-post Analysis.xls




                                      - 19 -

- 20 -

- 21 -

- 22 -

- 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              March 1995                1    Team Leader
              November 1995             1    Team Leader
              July 1996                 2    Team Leader, Fin. Analyst.
              October 1996              5    Sector Manager, Team Leader,
                                             Res. Rep., Fin. Analyst, Sanitary
                                             Eng.
              February 1997             4    Res. Rep., Team Leader, Fin.
                                             Analyst, Sanitary Eng., Impl.
                                             Spec.
              March 1998                3    Res. Rep., Sr. Economist, Impl.
                                             Spec.
              June 1998                 2    Sr. Economist, Water Spec.
              August 1998               3    Sr. Economist, Sanitary Eng.,
                                             Fin. Analyst
              October 1998              5    Lead Op. Spec, Sr. Economist,
                                             Sanitary Eng., Water &
                                             Sanitation Spec, Fin. Analyst.
              December 1998             2    Sr. Economist, Sr. Counsel.

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              February 1999             5    Lead Op. Spec., Sr.
                                             Economist, Sanitary Eng.,
                                             Financial Mngmt Spec., Fin.
                                             Analyst.
              March 1999                6    Sector Manager, Lead Op. Spec.,
                                             Sr. Counsel, Fin. Analyst,
                                             Disbursement Officer.

 Supervision
              July 1999                 5    Lead Op. Spec., Sector                 S               S
                                             Manager, Water Spec., Sr.
                                             Economist, Sanitary Eng.
              June 2000                 4    Sr. Fin. Analyst; Sanitary Eng.;       S               S
                                             Financial Mngmt Spec.; Env.
                                             Spec.
              July 2001                 4    Sr. Fin. Analyst; Sanitary Eng.;       S               S
                                             Sr. Economist; Impl. Spec.
              June 2002                 2    Sr. Fin. Analyst; Impl. Spec.          S               S
              November 2002             3    Sr. Fin. Analyst; Impl. Spec.; Fin     S               S
                                             Analyst.
              May 2003                  3    Sr. Fin. Analyst; Economist;           S               S
                                             Fin Mngmt Spec.




                                              - 24 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                              No. Staff weeks                     US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                              96                            336
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                   33                            115
  Supervision                                           113                             397
  Total                                                 242                             848
Bank budget, direct costs only. Excludes TF for LEN ($85,000) and SPN ($3,000)
No. of Staff weeks calculated based on an average cost of $3,500 per staff week.




                                                            - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

The following documents are available in the project files:

1. Project Appraisal Document
2. Back to office reports (preparation and supervision)
3. Audited Financial Statements
4. Economic and Financial Analysis Spreadsheets (electronic version).




                                                       - 28 -

Annex 8. Borrower's ICR




                           - 29 -

           Republic of Yemen
   Ministry of Water and Environment


Sana'a Water Supply and Sanitation Project
                (Cr. 3209-YEM)




   Implementation Completion Report




     By the Project Management Unit




             December 2003




                     - 30 -

A.       Introduction

Background and overall objectives:


1.       Sana'a, the capital of the Republic of Yemen is located in the central high lands, at an average altitude of
2,300m above main sea level (a.m.s.1), and has a semi-arid climate. Until mid 1960s, Sana'a was a largely
traditional urban center that had developed an urban ecology, which was largely in balance, with a population
around 50,000. Since the mid 1960s, a massive growth of population has occurred due to several factors associated
with economic and social change that followed. Today Sana'a has a population of more than 1.5 million.

2.       Existing water condition: Ground Water Development in Sana'a area has been directed towards satisfying
the demands without due consideration for scarcity of this natural resource. Ground water resources are being over
exploited largely as a result of the uncontrolled drilling and pumping from private wells used for irrigation. The
city of Sana'a has a limited area covered with domestic water supply systems. The water supply network was
constructed in two phases. Phase one 1976 - 1980, and phase two 1978- 1982. Since, some extensions were
constructed by the Sanaa Branch of NWSA now Sana'a Water and Sanitation Local Corporation, about 60% of the
city is covered. Due to scarcity of water, the city was divided into four zones and Water now is supplied to each
zone once every four days (as opposed to seven days before the implementation of this project).

3.       Existing sewerage condition: before the completion of the project, the area covered by sanitation in the
city of Sana'a was 9.5 percent of the total currently inhabited areas. The existing sewage network was constructed
in 1986 and during the 90's it covered only 30% of the population. The areas not covered disposed of their sewage
by the use of natural depressions, man made low points and percolation pits, which can be seen throughout the city.
The Akamah area was one of the worst areas without sanitation network. The streets were flooded with sewage,
posing a serious health and environmental hazard. This situation was mitigated by the successful completion of
the sewer systems by the project.

4.       The Government of Yemen and the International Development Association agreed to finance the Sana'a
Water Supply and Sanitation Project. An IDA Credit of SDR18.4 million (US$ 25.0 million equivalent) was
approved on May 13, 1999 and declared effective on June 30,1999. The overall objective of the Project was to help
the government start implementation of its water supply and sanitation strategy for the city of Sana'a. Specific
Objectives included: - (a) address emergency sewer installation and water network rehabilitation needs of Sana'a,
(b) increase the availability of urgently needed potable water in the city, (c) improve the efficiency of water and
waste water services in the city in a physically and financially sustainable manner, (d) prepare the sector for
significant private sector participation.

Project Description:

5.       The Project had the following main components: (a) construction of a sewer network in the Akamah
neighborhood and construction of the needed sewer trunk line; (b) rehabilitation of the water network in the
Hasabah neighborhood; (c) network improvements through leak detection, reduction of unaccounted for water and
rehabilitation of tertiary networks and house connections in Sana'a; (d) rehabilitation of current production
boreholes; (e) mobilization of new water resources through the drilling of new boreholes; (f) preparation of lease
contract bidding document; (g) preparation of an Adaptable Program Credit (APC) for urban centers including
Sana'a, Hodeidah, Taiz and Mukalla; and (h) other studies as appropriate. Below are the estimated costs by
Category:




                                                        - 31 -

                  Category                                   SDR                         % of Expenditures
 1- Works under Parts A.1,B and C.1 of
 the project                                             10,400,000                              90%

 2- Consultants' services and training                                             100% of foreign expenditures
 under Parts A.2, C.2, D.2, E.2 and E.3                   4,200,000                and 85% of the Local
 of the Project                                                                    Expenditures.
                                                                                   100% of foreign
                                                                                   expenditures, 100% of Local

 3- Goods                                                 1,960,800                Expenditures (ex-factory
                                                                                   cost), and 85% of local
                                                                                   expenditures of other items
                                                                                   procured locally
 4- Incremental Operating Expenditures                                             90% until June 30,2000,85%
                                                           315,000                 from July 1,2000,until June
                                                                                   2001and 80% thereafter

 5- Refunding of project Preparation                                               The PPF advance has been
 Advance                                                  1,384,900                refunded
 6 - Unallocated                                           139,300
 Total
                                                         18,400,000


B.       Summary of Project Performance

Achievement of Development Objective:

6.       Achievement of the Development Objectives was satisfactory. The urgent needs of sewer installation and
network rehabilitation have been addressed satisfactorily. Under the Project, implementation of 35,000m of sewer
pipes connecting around 7500 households and demolishing 3000 cesspools has been completed. Implementation of
these activities is expected to increase wastewater amounts that will reach the recently completed Wastewater
Treatment Plant (WWTP) by approximately 800,000 m3/year. In addition 5,000 households have been connected
through installation of about 30,000 meters of water pipes and installation or replacement of 21,500 water-meters.
Finally, about 300 lps (from fifteen successful wells drilled so far) of new raw water, resulting in an increase of
more than 50% of pre-project production is being made available to the SLWSSC for treatment and delivery to its
customers.

7.       In terms of improving the efficiency of water and wastewater services to the city, the Sana'a Branch of
NWSA was converted to a fully autonomous corporation on April 1, 2000. The additional quantity of water, which
was made available to the consumers and the facilities of processing the sewerage/wastewater through the WWTP
has enhanced the water supply and wastewater services and increased the sustainability for the SLWSSC. With the
completion of all physical works the quality of water supply and wastewater services has improved substantially.
Project areas that used to get water once every week are now served once every four days. Prior to implementation
of the Akama sewer component, streets in the project area were damaged, flooded with raw sewage and
environmentally hazardous. Today, the streets of the project area are asphalted and with sewage flowing through
underground sewer lines, resulting in a much cleaner environment.

8.       Finally, in order to prepare the sector for private sector participation, significant accomplishments have
been made so far. As a result of the on-going dialogue between IDA and GOY, reform in the sector was initiated
whereby the role of NWSA is now expected to concentrate on providing technical assistance, management of
NWSA branches, establishment of sector standards, organizing and implementing training programs,
establishment of data base for all Local Corporations and branches, and until the establishment of the Regulator,
monitor performance as delegated by the MWE. So far, 13 branches of NWSA have been made autonomous and



                                                       - 32 -

grouped under seven local corporations (LCs).          These branches are Sana'a, Aden, Ibb, Taiz, Al-Mukha,
Al-Hodeida, Zabid, Bejel, Beit Al-Feqih, Al-Mausumiah, Hadramawt, Tarim and Mukalla and have been
assimilated into the following seven LCs: Sana'a, Aden, Taiz, Hodeidah, Ibb, Hadramawt-Coastal and
Hadramawt-Wadi. As a part of preparation for the recently approved Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Project
(UWSSP), the SLWSSC is the first entity where Public-Private-Partnership will be tested through the introduction
of a private sector operator.

Achievement of Implementation Performance:

9.        All physical components were now completed and formally handed over to the SLWSSC. The following
is a brief summary of all components completed under the Project:

10.       Water and Sewerage Networks: This component was implemented through three major civil works
contracts. The details are: (a) Akamah Sewer Network Installation - completed by Al-Rehab, Yemen, at a total
cost of US$6,484,831; (b) Akamah Sewer Trunk Main Line Installation - completed by the China Roads and
Bridges Co, China, at a total cost of US$1,646,031; and (c) Hasabah Water Network - completed by China Roads
and Bridges Co. Ltd., China, at a total cost of US$2,777,129. The above amounts include costs of variation orders
wherever applicable.


  Description of Contract    Contract Value        Estimated Contribution        Actual Cost in US$
                                                 From IDA      From GOY       From IDA       From GOY
 Akamah Sewer Network
 Installation                  6,484,831.45     5,836,348.31   648,483.15    5,793,574.13    643,730.46

 Akamah Sewer Trunk
 Main Line Installation        1,646,031.41     1,481,428.27   164,603.14    1,408,637.04    156,536.60

 Hasabah Water Network         2,777,129.24     2,499,416.32   277,712.92    2,499,416.32    277,712.92



11.       Water Resources Development: This component aims at: i) exploratory borehole drilling in Al-Sabeen; ii)
establishment of a water resources development program; and iii) water resource engineering for mobilization of
new water resources to secure the long-term needs of Sana'a.           While the PMU was responsible for the
implementation of (i), NWRA was entrusted with activities (ii) and (iii). Implementation status of these is as
follows: IDA financed the preparation of Sana'a Development Program.          Dar Al-Handasah, the Consultant,
confirmed the finding of SWASS Project, financed by the Netherlands, concerning the future water resources for
Sana'a. These resources are: Shibam Basin, Sabeen Basin, Sana'a South, Mareb reservoir, Surdood springs,
Al-Khared dam and Desalinization from Hodeidah. Under the Project, it was decided that Al-Sabeen Basin was
the most feasible source of water.

12.       Exploratory borehole drilling in Al-Sabeen, well rehabilitation and deepening in the East and West
well-fields: Under this component 15 boreholes have been drilled by the China Roads and Bridges Co. Ltd, China,
at a total cost of US$3,409,709. While pumping tests indicated an aggregate availability of 340 to 400 lps, total
production from these 15 boreholes is about 300 lps.

 Description of                                  Estimated Contribution          Actual Cost in US$
 Contract                  Contract Value
                                               From IDA       From GOY        From IDA       From GOY
 Exploratory borehole
 drilling in Al-Sabeen,
 well rehabilitation and     3,409,709.61    2,727,740.72     681,968.89    2,663,472.72     665904.11

 deepening
 Connection to
 borehole (TP1 , TP1)         66,876.77         60,189.09      6,687.68       60,189.09       6,687.68




                                                       - 33 -

13.       Establishment of a water resource development program: In order to carry out well inventory, data
collection/updating, field survey to identify promising areas to develop new resources for water supply. A contract
was carried out and completed by the Sana'a University Water and Environmental Center WEC in September 2001
for a total amount of US$164,000. After some initial delays, the study has been completed. The delays were
caused by lack of capacity at NWRA and the difficulty encountered in recording every single one of the 13,000
wells in Sana'a Basin. These boreholes are scattered all over the basin and their locations were not known before
the survey.


     Description of Contract           Contract        Estimated Contribution        Actual Cost in US$
                                         Value        From IDA       From GOY     From IDA       From GOY
 Develop Water Resource
 Development Action Plan                164,000       139,400.00      24,600.00   139,400.00     24,600.00



14.       Water resource engineering for mobilization of new Water resources: Because of extensive delays in
completing the well inventory study and because of limited time available before Credit Closure, this amount has
been reallocated to finance other urgently needed components. As such, the Credit did not longer finance the study
and it is expected that related studies could be picked up by future IDA operations. Under the Credit, NWRA has
procured Metrological Equipment through a contract with M/S Gaith Aqua Tech, Yemen, for a total amount of
US$80,109.14.

15.       This equipment is utilized by NWRA to enhance its capability in recording the amount of rain in the
Sana'a basin area. The data gathered from these stations will allow accurate estimation of the total amount of rain
fallen on the basin and the quantity of rain contributed to the basin recharge.


  Description of Contract       Contract Value        Estimated Contribution        Actual Cost in US$
                                                    From IDA        From GOY     From IDA       From GOY
 Supply of Hudro-
 Metorological Instrument          80,109.14        78,521.39        1,587.75    78,521.39        1,587.75


Other contracts:

16.       Replacement and installation of new house connections: Under contract SWSSP-8, 35,000 water meters
ranging from 15-40 mm were procured at a total cost of US$ 912,200. So far, 21,543 water-meters have been
installed and 8,500 water meters are available in SLWSSC stocks for future maintenance/replacement needs.

                                                       Estimated Contribution        Actual Cost in US$
   Description of Contract        Contract Value      From IDA       From GOY      From IDA         From
                                                                                                    GOY
 12,500Hse.Cnnct.: Akama
 & Hasbah                            912200           912,200.00          0       912,200.00          0


17.       Electricity connection for boreholes:     The PMU signed an agreement with the Public Electricity
Corporation for a lump sum amount of US$270,000 for electrification of all 15 boreholes (under the Project) on a
turnkey basis.    Electrification works of all 15 boreholes have been completed and the electrified boreholes
transferred to the SLWSSC.


  Description of Contract      Contract Value       Estimated Contribution          Actual Cost in US$
                                                   From IDA       From GOY       From IDA       From GOY
 Electricity Connection
 to 15 Borehole                    270000          243,000.00      27,000.00     243,000.00      27,000.00




                                                        - 34 -

C.        Consultancy Services

18.       A consultancy contract for US$3.684 million was finalized with DAR Al-Handasah, Lebanon, (DAR).
The contract consisted of two main components: (i) preparation of a development program that includes the design
and the preparation of tender documents, and (ii) construction supervision of the four civil works contracts under
the Project. With satisfactory completion of both the components, the contract is over and the consultants have
demobilized.


      Description of                                Estimated Contribution          Actual Cost in US$

         Contract            Contract Value        From IDA         From          From IDA           From
                                                                    GOY                              GOY

                                  3,684,751.00     3,683,751.00        0         3,630,830.44           0



19.       Needs assessment of computer systems, office equipment for MEW and the SLWSSC: Based on a Needs
Assessment Report for the MEW and SLWSSC, a contract for computer hardware and software was finalized with
Alpha Yemen The total cost of this component US$ 355,714.27. All hardware was delivered and installation of
software along with provision of necessary training has been completed. Following announcement of the new
Government, a separate Ministry of Water and Environment has been established and there is a need for the newly
formed Ministry to have some initial support in terms of having necessary IT equipment.

     Description of                                Estimated Contribution           Actual Cost in US$
        Contract            Contract Value
                                                 From IDA       From GOY        From IDA         From GOY
 Office equipment for
 MEW and the                                    235,495.90      233,226.52      235,495.90       233,226.52
 SLWSSC                      468,722.42



20.       Staff Streamlining and training needs assessment of the SLWSSC: As part of IDA's efforts to assist the
GOY in its civil service reforms, a study on streamlining of the SLWSSC was contracted to Arcadis at a total cost
of US$99,660. Following dissemination of the study's results through a workshop, the study was finalized in June
2002. The Study found that most of the SLWSSC staff are unqualified, with only 10 percent of them having more
than a high school diploma. Also the SLWSSC is overstaffed with about 15 persons per 1,000 connections. The
study recommended a plan for streamlining with extensive training for the remaining staff. The Arab Fund
allocated around US$1.5 million a for training program, which has been started at SLWSSC. A budget of
US$500,000 was earmarked to finance the implementation of the recommendations of the streamlining study.
After delays of the civil services reform project, which was supposed to outline the overall streamlining framework
for civil servants, the SLWSSC finally submitted a proposal for compensating the discharge of 67 employees for a
total cost of YER 45,555,324 (eq. US$252,000). However, the detailed calculations of compensation amounts and
the basis of calculation were not clearly explained. Also, the proposal did not substantiate the criteria of selecting
the candidates that qualified for the compensation; this should have been in accordance with the Staff Streamlining
Study.

                                                       Estimated Contribution        Actual Cost in US$
  Description of Contract        Contract Value       From IDA     From GOY        From IDA          From
                                                                                                     GOY
                                     99,660             99,660          0            99,660            0



21.       Network Assessment, Leak Detection and Leak Repair: Since the process of bringing in a private operator
to operate the SLWSSC was progressing well, it was decided not to finance this activity from the Credit proceeds.



                                                        - 35 -

However, with the recent developments this has to be considered under the proposed management contract option.

22.      PSP implementation and preparation of Contract documentation for selected Private sector Option: The
GOY awarded the contract to Black and Castle law firm. The contract was signed on July 2001.The lawyer helped
GOY to prepare the RFQ and RFP's for Sana'a Water Supply and Sanitation Local Corporation SLWSSC. The
GOY and IDA had agreed on a work plan and a Road Map to implement the Lease Contract. To prepare for the
Lease contract two studies were initiated: (i) Streamlining and training need assessment, and (ii) baseline Study to
gather all technical and administrative information regarding Sana'a Local corporation. The two studies were
available to the qualified bidders for the Lease contract. The Bank approved the evaluation report. Accordingly
three firms were pre-qualified, as follows:

a-       Generale des Eaux joint venture with Dar Al-Handash consultant
b-       Hamburg Wasserwerke Gmbh/Consulaqua Hamburg Gmbh
c-       Wier Engineering Services

On January 14, no one submitted a bid. Accordingly the Bank and the GoY agreed to encourage the future private
sector participation through promoting a management contract. Currently, the introduction of a management
contract is under consideration and it seems likely that this will be accomplished under the UWSSP.


     Description of                                  Estimated Contribution          Actual Cost in US$

         Contract              Contract Value       From IDA        From GOY       From IDA          From
                                                                                                     GOY
 Legal services for the
 lease contract                  231,210.00         231,210.00           0         192,810.00          0


23.      Baseline study: A detailed baseline study was satisfactorily carried out for SLWSSC.             The study
established the baseline data for SLWSSC operations, which was not available. These data was made available to
the pre-qualified bidders of the lease contract, and will eventually be utilized by the private partner to assess the
overall condition of the SLWSSC. Based on the final report a workshop to present the outcomes of study was held
on May 12, 2002, and was attended by 54 participants, including the Mayor of Sana'a and Deputy Minister of
Water and Electricity. In addition, a training course for using the database developed and adopted by the study was
also organized for SLWSSC staff between May 12-15, 2002.

                                                     Estimated Contribution          Actual Cost in US$
 Description of Contract       Contract Value        From IDA       From GOY       From IDA          From
                                                                                                     GOY
 Baseline Study                   110,587.00        110,587.00           0         110,587.00          0


24.      Role of NWSA as a Regulator: A consultancy study concluded that NWSA in its current set-up and
mandate could not assume the responsibility of a water sector regulator. Based on subsequent discussions between
IDA and GOY it was agreed that the scope of the study would be enhanced to include the formation of a
multi-utility regulator for both the Power and Water sectors. Based on a revised proposal for a revised study, IDA
had provided its no objection to proceed with finalization of the contract. Due to delays encountered in finalization
of the contract and subsequent travel restrictions to Yemen the contract was not finalized. With the advent of a
new government and a new Ministry for Water and Environment, this component could not be initiated under the
Project. Accordingly, it was agreed that the possibility of financing the study could be considered under the
UWSSP.




                                                        - 36 -

                                                   Estimated Contribution         Actual Cost in US$
 Description of Contract      Contract Value      From IDA       From GOY       From IDA         From
                                                                                                 GOY
 NWAS as a Regulator             79,280.00        79,280.00           0         54,952.00          0



D.      Environmental Assessment, Monitoring Program, and Mitigation Plan (EMP)

25.     Submission of semi-annual environmental reports and monitoring of EMP: All reports have been
submitted. Most of the projects in Yemen were implemented without having an environmental safety officer
monitoring the implementation until recently. This was mainly due to the fact that there were not many qualified
personnel in Yemen that could carry the assignment in accordance to the IDA requirements. Accordingly, the
PMU director carried out this assignment temporarily until a qualified ESO was hired.

     Description of                               Estimated Contribution          Actual Cost in US$
        Contract             Contract Value
                                                From IDA        From GOY       From IDA       From GOY
 Safety officer contract
 1                              3,000.00         3,000.00           0.00        3,000.00         0.00

 Safety officer contract
 2                            11,200.00          9,520.00        1,680.00       9,520.00       1,680.00

 Social Study                 16,000.00         13,600.00        2,400.00      13,600.00       2,400.00

 Water Samples                10,639.24          9,646.39          992.85       9,646.39        992.85


E.      Project Cost estimates and unused balance

26.      All contracts related to implementation of physical works have been completed. Revised Project cost
estimate based on the original scope is about US$24.5 million, this compares well with US$28.0 million as
estimated during appraisal. GoY's contribution amounted to a total of US$ 1.924 million.

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                         Component                                    Appraisal        Actual/Latest
                                                                       Estimate          Estimate
                                                                    US$ Thousand      US$ Thousand
 RFP                                                                    2,000            1,795.25
 Water Resources Development                                            7,650            5,784.22
 Water Supply Civil Works                                               4,300            3,689.33
 Wastewater Collection Civil Works                                      7,150            8,014.97
 Environmental Mitigation Study                                          350              302.94
 Supervision Monitoring                                                 1,500            1,839.44
 TA, Office Equipment and Training                                       950              456.18
 Prepare Urban Water Sector Program Loan                                3,000            2,502.93
 Physical Contingencies                                                 1,100
 Total Project Costs                                                    28,000          24,385.26




                                                     - 37 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ACTUAL) (US$ thousand equivalent)
   Expenditure Category                   ICB              NCB            Other          N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                               14,107.45          66.88             270                      14,444.33
Portion of works financed by           1,742.35            6.69              27                      1,776.04
GOY
Portion of works financed by           12,365.10          60.19             243             0        12,668.29
IDA
 2. Goods                              2,256.59           297.96          185.46                      2,740.01
 Portion of works financed by               0             34.27            14.52                       48.79
 GOY
 Portion of goods financed by          2,256.59           263.69          170.94            0         2,691.22
 IDA
 3. Services                                                              7,200.92                    7,200.92
 Portion of works financed by                                              99.19                       99.17
 GOY
 Portion of services financed by                                          7,101.73          0         7,101.73
 IDA
    Total                              16,364.04          364.84          7,646.38                   24,385.26
 Portion of total financed by GOY      1,742.35           40.96           140.71                      1,924.02
Portion of total financed by IDA       14,621.69          323.88          7,515.67          0        22,461.24



F.       Performance Evaluation

 IDA Performance

27.      The effectiveness of the IDA supervision team and supervision input in relation to the review of
implementation of the Project and the performance of the Project Management Units is discussed below. Overall
review of Implementation of the Sana'a Water Supply and Sanitation Project can be considered satisfactory. This
development was achieved due to appreciable efforts paid by IDA's supervision team. Responsiveness and closed
supervision of IDA staff involved in the project have led to achieve a highly satisfactory project. The project
management unit was fortunate to have an IDA team in Washington and in the Country Office. This diversity
enabled the project to perform satisfactorily. The PMU and IDA team completed the preparation of the APL
project for four Major cities Sana'a, Taiz, Al-Mukalla and Al-Hodeidah.

28.      IDA's Input to Water Sector Reform: PMU would like to express its sincere gratitude for all IDA
counter part team working in this project for the active role and significant input to the project. It is worth to
mention that the direct involvement of IDA has saved Reform Program from possible failure. An example of such
involvement is insisting on the Public Private Participation and Tariff increase for financial sustainability
according to credit agreement. It is the IDA mission who triggered the establishments of the Local Corporations in
the Water sector. The IDA counterpart team has shown high standard of performance in its input. This fact can
be seen from the consistence, high responsiveness and valuable advice and comments issued by IDA Staff. As an
evidence of this opinion is the number of contract prepared jointly, reviewed, cleared and implemented.

 Project Management Unit

29.      The PMU was established in November 1997 and has actively implemented its function since its
establishment. Taking into consideration the NWSA's limited implementation capacity, we believe that the PMU
has done a good job in following up site activities and reporting defects. The PMU has always participated in site
meetings, during which the contractor was always tackled to fulfill his contractual obligation. The PMU was also




                                                       - 38 -

actively involved in procurement issues related to preparation and revision of tender documents (with the
assistance of IDA's staff), tender evaluation and contract award was done in accordance with IDA's guidelines for
procurement of works, goods and services, which are applicable to procurements under the credit. All components
of the projects were committed.

30.      NWRA Performance NWRA performance was not satisfactory concerning this project, due to the delay
in implementing the engineering study for mobilizing new resources, which can mainly be attributed to its limited
capacity.

31.      Technical Secretariat (TS) Performance The TS was instructed to oversee the sector reform agenda and
provide policy advice necessary to enhance the process. TS supervised the following Studies: Preparation of Local
corporations Laws; Preparation of the streamlining study; Preparation of the study of NWSA as regulator;
Preparation of Lease contract.

32.       SLWSSC Sana'a Water and Sanitation Local Corporation After establishment of SLWSSC, the
services with the investment taking place for areas of water network, Water resources and sanitation network with
the help of the new management and IDA support. The SLWSSC is poised for rapid improvement in the near
future. The Minister's and the Chairman of the Board's full support enabled the SLWSSC to carry out its
responsibility. However, the financial viability is still weak and needs improvement.

G.       Lessons Learned

a. The Environmental Safety officer shall be on board before the start of the construction of the Project. This
    action will ensure a close evaluation of the Environmental Monitoring and Implementation Plan in a monthly
    basis.
b. Carefully assess the capability of the institutions to carry out the relevant component in the credit, i.e., NWRA.
    Such action will eliminate the delay of implementation of many components of the project since there is only
    one authority responsible for the implementation or at least qualified institutions.
c. Avoid including components, which depends on the other sector successful implementation like the
    streamlining of staff, which depended on the Civil Services Reforms.            The Idea was to implement the
    streamlining in accordance to the service reform guidelines. Sana'a was to be a pilot case of implementing the
    guidelines of the civil service reform. Since the reform was not completed this delay cause the delay of
    implementing the streamlining of staff in Sana'a.
d. The drilling of boreholes shall be acompanied with construction of electricity grid, pumps, pump houses and
    water transmission lines in order to avoid any delay in utilizing the successful boreholes and consumers shall
    benefit immediately from the additional water quantities.




                                                          - 39 -

- 40 -

