Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3209-YEM
Development Credit Agreement
(Sana'a Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 3, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3209-YEM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 3, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the Sana’a branch of the National 
Water and Sanitation Authority (NWSA) with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the Credit as provided for 
under Article II of this Agreement available to NWSA as set forth in this Agreement; 
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Association and NWSA 
(the Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Page  2
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Environmental Management Plan” means NWSA’s plan, as set forth in the 
environmental assessment dated March 27, 1999, as such plan may be updated from time 
to time by agreement between NWSA and the Association, for the implementation of the 
Project in accordance with appropriate environmental standards and guidelines, and 
said plan shall include an environmental mitigation plan, environmental monitoring 
plan and certain institutional strengthening measures;
(b)
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing January 1 
and ending December 31;
(c)
“MEW” means the Ministry of Electricity and Water of the Borrower;
(d)
“NWRA” means National Water Resources Authority, established and 
operating under the Borrower’s Decree No. 154 of 1995, as the same may be amended from 
time to time;
(e)
“NWSA” means National Water and Sanitation Authority, established and 
operating under the Borrower's Law No. 13 of 1973, as the same may be amended from 
time to time;
(f)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit to be maintained pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(g)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and NWSA 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(h)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement;
(i)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters between 
the Association and the Borrower dated May 25, 1995, and June 4, 1995, as amended by a 
further exchange of letters dated December 2, 1998, and December 12, 1998;
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
Page  3
(k)
"Statutes" means Law No. 13 of 1973 of the Borrower pertaining to the 
establishment and operations of NWSA, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(l)
"Subsidiary Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and NWSA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time; and
(m)
“Technical Secretariat” means the Technical Secretariat for Water Supply 
and Sanitation Sector Reform within MEW.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to eighteen million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR18,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2002, or such later date 
as the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30, immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
Page  4
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each June 15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 2009, and ending December 15, 2038.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2018, shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause NWSA to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement 
all the obligations of NWSA therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable NWSA to perform such obligations, and shall not 
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to NWSA on a 
grant basis under a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and NWSA under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
Page  5
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
shall be carried out by NWSA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
(1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the Fiscal 
Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each Fiscal Year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each Fiscal Year 
the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested, including a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of 
expenditures submitted during such Fiscal Year, 
together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 31, 2001, take all 
measures necessary on its part to complete the conversion of the Sana’a branch of NWSA 
referred to under Part D.2 of the Project; (b) not later than March 31, 2002, and 
subject to the prior approval of the Borrower’s Council of Ministers and the 
Association, take all measures necessary on its part to award the contract referred to 
under Part E.3 of the Project taking into consideration the impact of the arrangement 
provided for under said contract on the welfare of consumers; and (c) take all 
measures necessary on its part to enable NWSA to carry out those obligations of NWSA 
and NWSA’s Sana’a branch provided for under Sections 2.03 (b) and 4.03 of, and 
paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 2 to, the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
Page  6
following additional events are specified:
(a)
NWSA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that NWSA will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or financial condition 
of NWSA or its ability to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of NWSA or for the suspension of 
its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
the Borrower and NWSA.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by NWSA, 
and is legally binding upon NWSA in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and NWSA and is legally binding upon the Borrower and NWSA in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Development of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Development
P. O. Box 175
Sana’a
Page  7
Republic of Yemen
Cable address: 
Telex:
2266 CENPLAN YE
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By /s/ Abdulwahab Al-Hajjri 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Inder K. Sud 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works under Parts
  11,030,000
90%
A.1, B and C.1 of
the Project
(2)
Consultants' services
   4,120,000
100% of foreign
and training under
expenditures and 85%
Parts A.2, C.2, D.2,
of local 
expenditures
E.2 and E.3 of the
Project
(3)
Goods
     740,000
100% of foreign
Page  8
expenditures; 100%
of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory cost);
and 85% of local
expenditures for 
other items pro-
cured locally
(4)
Incremental
     300,000
90% until June 30, 
2000,
Operating
85% from July 1, 
2000,
Expenditures
under June 30, 2001, 
and
80% thereafter
(5)
Refunding of
   1,470,000
Amounts due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
of this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
     740,000
TOTAL
  18,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Incremental Operating Expenditures” means expenditures incurred 
by PMU and the Executive Board of the Sana’a branch of NWSA on account of utility 
charges, maintenance of vehicles, fuel, office supplies, banking charges, 
communication services, audit costs, labor costs and other consumables.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) expenditures for goods under contracts 
costing less than $500,000 equivalent; (b) expenditures for works under contracts 
costing less than $1,000,000 equivalent; (c) expenditures for training; and (d) 
expenditures for Incremental Operating Expenditures, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the efficiency of water and 
wastewater services, meet urgent needs for wastewater collection, increase the 
availability of potable water in the city of Sana’a and lay the foundation for the 
private sector operation and management of the Sana’a branch of NWSA.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Water Resources
1.
Carrying out a program in the Al-Sabeen area to drill about six (6) new 
boreholes and an additional borehole on an exploratory basis, and to rehabilitate 
about forty (40) existing boreholes.
Page  9
2.
Preparation of a water resource development action plan, together with 
engineering designs for the future construction of bulk water supply systems.
Part B:
Water Supply and Distribution
Carrying out a program to increase the supply of water to consumers in the 
Hasabah area through, inter alia, the rehabilitation of the water distribution 
network, the carrying out of a network assessment, together with leak detection and 
repair works, and the rehabilitation of about twelve thousand five hundred (12,500) 
connections in the Hasabah and Akama areas.
Part C:
Sewerage Network
1.
Carrying out a program to extend sewerage services in the Akama area through, 
inter alia, the supply and installation of pipelines and manholes, the construction of 
a sewer trunk main, the demolition of cesspools, and the removal and disposal of 
sludge emanating therefrom.
2.
Carrying out a study to identify an environmentally suitable policy to dispose 
of, or re-use, wastewater sludge and treated wastewater.
Part D:
Institutional Capacity Building
1.
Support to PMU and the Sana’a branch of  NWSA, consisting of the provision of 
expert services and equipment, training of personnel and the preparation of studies, 
to ensure effective management of the Project and supervision of its implementation.
2.
Support to NWSA and to the Sana’a branch of NWSA, consisting of the provision of 
expert services and equipment, training of personnel and the preparation of studies, 
to enable the former to act as the water and wastewater sector’s independent 
regulatory body and to convert the latter into an autonomous legal entity.
Part E:
Follow-On Projects and Activities
1.
Preparation of feasibility studies, engineering designs and bidding and other 
documents for follow-on projects in the water and wastewater sector.
2.
Carrying out assessments and studies to select a suitable arrangement, from 
among a performance-based management contract, a lease or a concession, for the 
operation of the Sana’a branch of NWSA.
3.
Preparation of all technical, legal, financial, economic and bidding documents 
required to award the contract relating to the arrangement selected pursuant to Part 
E.2 of the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the 
Page  10
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR5,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
Page  11
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
