Report No. PID5870
Project Name                     Yemen-Sana'a Water Supply & Sanitation (@+)
Project
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Urban Water Supply and Sewerage
Project ID                       RYPE5907
Borrower                         The Government of Yemen
Implementing Agency              National Water & Sanitation Authority
Project Management Unit (PMU)
Sana'a, Yemen
Eng. Isam Makki, Project Director
Phone: (967-1) 216-680
Fax     (967-1) 203-240
Environmental Category           B
Date PID Prepared                February 24, 1999
Appraisal Date                   February 1999
Projected Board Date             May 1999
1.      Sector Background.   Yemen is the most water stressed country in the
Middle East and North Africa (MENA). Available water resources are estimated
at only 176 m3 per capita per year, or about only 14 percent of the 1250 m3
MENA average. Virtually all surface water sources are harnessed and
completely exploited, and current estimates of groundwater mining are over 700
million cubic meters per year.
2.      In Yemen's urban areas, access to a piped water supply is thought to be
about 88 percent nationwide. However, the supply is often inadequate and some
areas can go up to two months without water from the piped system. In some
large cities, such as Sana'a and Taiz, private piped networks are common,
often serving over 20 percent of the population. For example, an estimated
two thirds of all water consumed in Sana'a is provided by the private sector,
either through small piped networks or from vendors. About 90 percent of
urban residents are estimated to have access to adequate wastewater
facilities. However, of these only 47 percent are connected to a public sewer
network; the remainder having a closed pit system.
3.      Project Objectives.   The Project development objectives are to: (i)
improve the delivery of water and wastewater services in the city of Sana'a;
and (ii) establish an autonomous water and wastewater authority in the city
with substantial private sector participation in the management of the
facilities.
4.      Project Description.   The proposed Project would consist of the following
components: Water Resources: Surveys and exploratory well drilling. Limited
rehabilitation of existing wellfields. Water Distribution: rehabilitation of
existing primary, secondary and tertiary networks. Sewerage: Rehabilitation
of main interceptors and extension of the sewer network. Technical Assistance
& Institutional Capacity Building: Establishment of an autonomous Sana'a



Branch Office, support to the Project's PMU, construction supervision,
engineering design for follow-on projects, environmental management plan, TA
and studies to lay the groundwork for the preparation of an Adaptable Program
Lending for other major cities, including Al-Mukalla, Taiz and Al-Hodeidah.
5.      Project Cost and Financing.   The total project cost is currently
estimated at around US$27 million. Financing would consist of an IDA Credit
of about US$25 million equivalent. The remaining portion would be financed by
the Government.
6.      Project Implementation.   The Borrower would be the Government of Yemen.
The National Water & Sanitation Authority (NWSA) has established a Project
Management Unit (PMU) to implement the Project. The PMU is headed by a
director, who is assisted by a financial officer, technical staff, and
consultants. Monitoring indicators to evaluate project development objectives,
implementation progress and project's impact would be developed during
appraisal. In addition, baseline surveys would be conducted prior to project
start-up. Through monitoring by PMU and periodic surveys, progress towards the
achievement of project objectives would be assessed. A midterm review would
be conducted in the second year of implementation to measure the achievement
of critical milestones, including those under the environmental management
plan. If the review so indicates, the Project will be adjusted to changing
conditions.
7.      Project Sustainability.   The sustainability of the Project will be
enhanced by addressing three key issues. First, and in order to improve
efficiency of service delivery, an autonomous water and wastewater
company/utility for the city, with substantial private sector participation,
will be established under the proposed Project. Second, the financial
viability to this company will be ensured. Third, the water resources
component will identify and increase the city's sustainable raw water supply.
8.      Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement in the Country/Sector. The
implementation of the Al-Mukalla and Tarim Water Supply Projects and the Taiz
Water Supply Pilot Project has highlighted the need, above all, for
decentralized management of, and local participation in, water supply and
distribution and sanitation services in Yemen. This is reflected in both the
Project design and the pre-requisite for the initial steps in regulatory
reform to be taken prior to appraisal and before any new investments are made
in the sector by IDA.
9.      Poverty Category.   The Project is not part of a core poverty program, but
most households that will benefit from the provision of essential municipal
infrastructure are considered to be low income.
10.     Environmental Aspects.   The Project has been placed in environmental
screening Category "B" consistent with Operational Directive 4.01 (see
attached Annex).
11.     Project Risks.   There are two major project risks.   First, although the
government has already established an autonomous branch, developing it into a
financially viable and commercially oriented entity will require intensive
effort. Second, private sector participation in O&M might take time.
12.     Project Benefits.   The Project is expected to produce social, economic,
-2 -



and financial benefits with regard to:
(a)     Improving the health and living conditions of people in the target
communities through the provision of sewer connections, the elimination of
cesspools and soaking pits and more reliable piped water supply;
(b)     Saved water and increased revenues as a result of leakage repairs, and
repairing or replacing meters; and
(c)     Improving the urban water sector's financial sustainability through the
provision for adequate tariffs and the operational autonomy of individual
Branches of NWSA.
13.     Program Objective Category.    Environmentally sustainable development.
Contact Point                     The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Task Team Leader: Amir Al-Khafaji
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-2817
Fax: (202) 477-0348
Note:   This is information on an evolving project.     The contents of this
document are     subject to change and the components described may not necessary
be included in   the final project.
-3-



Annex
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
Summary. The Project would contribute to improving the environment, through
expansion and/or rehabilitation of water and sewerage systems. It does not
include any component with a major environmental impact. There are no known
Project components whose implementation would require land acquisition or
result in involuntary resettlement. No known archaeological or historical
sites would be affected, nor does the Project raise any international water
issues. The activities to be supported comprise small and medium projects for
the rehabilitation, upgrading and extension of water and wastewater services,
and the drilling of one exploratory groundwater wells and the possible
provision of four production boreholes. The Project will not fund expansion
or rehabilitation of existing wastewater treatment facilities (funding is
already being provided by the Arab and OPEC Funds under a separate project).
Environmental Management Plan, Environmental Components. An draft
Environmental Management Plan has been prepared and all major environmental
issues are satisfactorily addressed.    The Plan ensures that sewage will be
treated to acceptable levels and sludge disposed of in an approved manner, as
per the applicable environmental guidelines. Tertiary water distribution
systems will be rehabilitated to reduce leakage. About 35 kms of main sewer
interceptors will be rehabilitated, plus sewer networks will be installed in
target areas of the city. Studies will be performed to help the Government
formulate policies on sludge disposal and wastewater re-use.
Implementation & Reporting. The draft Environmental Management Plan includes
an implementation strategy. The final Environmental Management Plan will be
ready by end February 1998 and placed in the World Bank Public Information
Center and the Project Office in Sana'a. Supervision reports will include
progress on implementation of the Environmental Management Plan.
- 4 -



