Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9558-BO
1Vo    I)   1 i.   1'4tv   ,§  ,',1;   ) I
STAFF APPRATSAL REPORT
BOLIVIA
SECOND PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OPERATION
JUNE 4, 1991
Public Sector Management Division
Technical Department
Latin America and Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Boliviano (Bs)
US$1   $b 3.45
(February 1991)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha = 10,000 square meters (m2) = 2.47 acres (a)
1 kilogram (kg) = 2.205 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton) = 1,000 kg
ABBREVIATIONS
BAB       - Banco Agricola de Bolivia
BCB       - Banco Central de Bolivia
BANEST    - Banco del Estado
BAMIN     - Banco Minero de Bolivia
CGR       - Contraloria General de la RepGblica
COMIBOL   - Corporaci6n Minera de Bolivia
CONSAFCO  - Consejo del Sistema de Administracion Financiera y Control
EMSO      - Economic Management Strengthening Operation (1977-BO)
ENDE      - Empresa Nacional de Electricidad
ENFE      - Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles
ENTEL     - Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones
ENTA      - Empresa Nacional de Transporte Automotor
FDR       - Fondo de Desarrollo Regional
FONEM     - Fondo Nacional de Exploracion Mineral
GAO       - General Accounting Office
GOB       - Government of Bolivia
IMF       - International Monetary Fund
INE       - Instituto Nacional de Estadistica
IDB       - Inter-American Development Bank
LAB       - Lloyd Aereo Boliviano
MACA      - Ministerio de Asuntos Campesinos y Agricultura
MF        - Ministerio de Finanzas
MPC       - Ministerio de Planeaci6n y Coordinaci6n
PE        - Public Enterprises
PFMO      - Public Financial Management Operation (Cr.1809-BO)
RDC       - Regional Development Corporation
SAFCO     - Sistema de Administracion Financiera y Control
SAFCOLaw  - Law on Financial Administration and Control Systems
SAC       - Proposed Structural Adjustment Credit
TGN       - Tesoreria General de la Naci6n
UNDP      - United Nations Development Program
USAID     - United States Agency for International Development
YPFB      - Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOLIVIA
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OPERATION II
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PROJECT SUMMARY ............................................ i-iii
I . THE PUBLIC SECTOR .......................                    1
A. Economic Context            . ....................................... 1
B. Structure of the Public Sec'tor           . . .    3
C. Reform Measures .      ....................................... 5
D. Remaining Constraints          .     .      .8............. 
E. Donor Assistance and Coordination          . . .   11
F. Rationale for IDA Involvement            . . .    12
cI. THE PROJECT ................................................ 14
A. Project Objectives        ...................... 14
B. Project Description .........................,         14
C. Project Costs         ........................ 26
D. Financing Plan         ........................ 27
E. Procurement         ........................ 28
F. Project Implementation       .................... 29
III. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ........................            31
A. Project Benefits ........................               31
B. Project Risks         ........................ 32
IV. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED       . .       .................... 33
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of Alain
Tobelem (LATPS) Task Manager, Eduardo Talero (ITFUS), Luisa Ardila (LA3C1), Sara
Hoffman (LEGLA), and John Davison (USAID), which visited Bolivia in February
1991. Jim Wesberry from USAID is the author of the Government Auditing Component
Annex. Peer Reviewers are Donald Winkler (LATPS) and James Hicks (LATIE). The
responsible managers are: Shahid Chaudhry, Division Chief (LATPS); Marie Garcia-
Zamor, Projects Advisor (LA3DR) and Ping-Cheung Loh, Director (LA3DR).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
1.   Project Implementation Schedule, Inputs and Costs
per Component, per Year
2.   Project Detailed Inputs and Costs
3.   Summary Account by Project Component
4.   Summary Disbursement Schedule
5.   Consultants Requirements
6.   Ministry of Finance Organization Chart
7.   Interinstitutional Relationships Chart
8.   Performance Indicators
9.   Integrated Information System Program
10. Administration and Control Systems Chart
11. Training Component and Costs
12. Government Auditing Component
13. Accounting Component
14. The SAFCO Law
15. The Elimination of Subtreasuries
16. Lessons Learned PFMO I: Objectives, Performance, and Shortcomings
MAP: IBRD No.16591



FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SECOND PUBLIC FINANCIAL MUNMGEINT OPERATION
Credit and Proiect SummarX
80Kr2row rRepublic of Bolivia
BUenL^gfcart  Ministry of Finance
Comptroller General's Office
Amountt        SDR 8.5 million (US$11.3 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard IDA terms
Proiect
Obiectives and
D2aarit.Lon:   Building on progress made under the First Public Financial
Management Operation, the broad objectives of a second operation
in Public Financial Management are to: (a) institutionalize
budgeting, accounting, cash management, and auditing procedures
at various levels of government; (b) enhance the institutional
capacity both at the central and regional government levels to
implement the new procedures; (c) provide GOB with ex post
control functions vital to the enforcement of accountability for
results in the public sector; and (d) develop skilled manpower
to sustain the new procedures. The project would consist of: (a)
financial management and control component to create and/or
modernize budgeting, accounting, cash management and government
auditing norms and procedures at the central administratioi level
and disseminate them at other public sector levels; (b) the
development of standards and regulations, to review and/or draft
regulations called for by the SAFCO Law in operations-
programming, personnel management, procurement and administration
of goods and services, and the rationalization of the non-
financial public sector; and (c) training of existing and future
financial management specialists and their managers.
Benefitat      The main benefit of the project is that it will assist the
Government to institutionalize the public financial management
system throughout the public sector to: (a) improve the budget
formulation process; (b) establish coherent uniform public
accounting and control systems; (c) provide instruments to
integrate the overall financial status of the public sector; (d)
enhance the capacity to hold public servants accountable for
their decisions and actions through ex-post audit controls; and
(e) develop a cadre of skilled financial and audit experts to
operate the system.   Overall, the proposed pro,ect would be
consistent with IDA' a strategy to increase GOB' s capacity to



-iL-
make use of, and account for the large volume of donor
commitments of external resources, thus contributing to the
longer-term instLtutional development effort.
Proiect Riokes Three major project riske ares (a) high turn over of staff; (b)
ad hoc changes in the financial management procedures; and (c)
lack of consistant applicatlon of information generated by the
SAFCO system to the Gover.ment's decision-making process. The
staff turn over, caused mainly by low salaries and high private
sector demand for skillod manpower (e.g., accountants, auditors),
iœ being addressed through the establishment of the Public Sector
Management Scheme, where civil service conditions of pay and
employw.,nt are being adjusted to compete with the prlvate sector.
In regard to the ad hor changes in procedures, it was agreed with
the Government during negotiations that all institutional and
procedural changes regarding the SAFCO system would be made after
consultation with  IDA.    While  the  largely  political  risk
regarding the Government's possible disregard of SAFCO-generated
information in its decliion-making process cannot be entirely
miLtgated, specific actions would be taken to reduce this
possibility.   It was agreed at negotiations that: (a) annual
reports would be submitted to Congress on the progress of
implementing the SAFCO Law, thus ensuring that Government policy-
makers would be aware of the available information; and (b)
satisfactory review of project implementation and following-year
work program o. an annual basis would be a condition of continued
project 'inancing by IDA.



-iii-
BOLIVIX
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OPERATION II
Estimated Costa and Financinia Plan
Estimated Costs: a/
Local Foreign Total
---- US$ million----
Financial Management                                3.8    5.4    9.2
Standards and Regulations                           0.2    0.8    1.0
Training                                            2.0    1.4    3.4
Line rositions                                      3.0     --    3.0
Project Management                                  0.3    0.7    1.0
Management Fee (4% of IDA)                           --    0.4    0.4
PPF Refinancing                                            1.5    1.5
Base Costs                                          9.3   10.2   19.5
Physical Contingencies                              0.3    0.3    0.6
Price Contingencies                                 1.4    0.8    2.2
Total Project Costs                                11.0   11.3   22.3
Financing Plan:
Local Foreign Total
----US$ million----
Government                                         11.0   ----   11.0  b/
IDA                                                 _     11.3   11.3
Total                                              11.0   11.3   22.3
a/ The project is exempted from taxes and duties
b/ Counterpart funds generated from USAID economic support funds.
Note: Due to rounding totals may not always add.



SECOND PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OPERATION
I. THE PUBLIC SECTOR
A. Economic Context
1.1       Background.  Bolivia faces a particularly difficult set of development
challenges.   Its difficult terrain and landlocked position result in high
transport costs and higher costs for its goods, both internally and externally.
Endemic political instability has made Bolivia virtually incapable of sustaining
development policies and strategies for long. Annual population growth rates of
3.8% have been too high and economic growth too low for eustained improvements
in living standards. As a result, Bolivia is one of the poorest countries in
Latin America; its 6.3 million inhabitants are poorly educated (functionally
illiteracy at 50%); its health indicators are among the worst on the continent
(infant mortality at 117 per 1000); a large proportion of its population faces
poverty (80% of the population earns less than 70% of the income required to
cover a basic needs basket); and it has extremely poor infrastructure and social
services (e.g., only 30% of the urban population is connected to a sewerage
system and only 15% has latrines). About one-half of the economically active
population is employed in agriculture, particularly in the highlands of the
altiplano where subsistence farming predominates. The investment climate, while
improving, remains highly uncertain particularly due to the continued, dominance
ce  the state in the mineral, hydrocarbon, and energy sectors.   The economy
continues to rely heavily on a few export commodities in hydrocarbon and mining
sectors for growth, making it vulnerable to external market fluctuations.
1.2       Bolivia, however, has important a.sets and advantages that offer hope
for its future growth and development. It has abundant supplies of hydrocarbons,
primarily gas; minerals such as tin, silver, gold, and tungsten; and extensive
forests and fertile land for agriculture and livestock production in the eastern
lowlands. These resources have not been fully explored or exploited. Bolivia
now has direct access to the sea via the Paraguay River, opening the possibility
of reducing transporz costs for its import and export goods. While human
resources are limited in terms of formal education, a small but well educated
cadre of managers, professionals, and technocrats in the public and private
sectors are well able to provide responsible and skilled leadership.   The
efficiency cf Bolivia's labor force and peasant farmers is constrained by
technological and other factors, which could be overcome by investment and good
management.
1.3       Structural Reform Program.   Following several years of declining
output, culminating in hyperinflation of over 24,000% in annual terms, the
Government of Bolivia (GOB) in late 1985 launched its New Economic Policy (NEP).
This program stopped hyperinflation and introduced a long-term adjustment program
to reduce the role of the state and rebuild a free market economy. The exchange
rate was freed and set through an auction system, which resulted in an immediate
devaluation of the official rate by 93%; strict budgetary controls were
introduced to keep expenditures to the levels of revenues; most price controls
were eliminated and specific prices and tariffs increased to bring them close to
international levels (for gasoline, electricity, and transport). Far-reaching
reform of the tax system reduced the basic tax categories from 400 to nine; trade



-2-
restrictions were drastically eased, including elimination of most quantitative
trade restrictions and reduction of tariff rates; and steps were taken to
reorganize some pC lic enterprises and abolish or reduce others (COMIBOL - state
mining company - was reduced in svze by the termination of 23,000 workers).  The
financiRl system was liberalized, removing regulatory constraints on financial
transactions and freeing the determination of interest rates. An important start
was made tr, improve public sector administration by est&bliebing the Financial
Admtnistration and Control System (SAFCO) for monitoring public expsnditures and
better data systems for planning and monitoring public investment.   In early
1987, GOB launched an ambitious program to alleviate the impact of the economic
crisis on the poorest groups through the Emergency Social Fund, which supports
small projects to generate productive employment and social assistance efforts
(e.g., maternal health care and school feeding). GOB sustained the adjustment
program in the face of the collapse of the international tin price in 198M-1986
and difficulties caused by delays in payment by Argentina for Bolivian gas
shipments. The new policy stance succeeded quickly in restoring macroeconomic
stability.   Immediately following introduction of the NEP,  inflation fell
dramatically and has generally remained between 10% and 20%. However, resumption
of economic growth has been slow. GDP grew for zhe first time in six years in
1987. albeit at only 2.1% and by an average of 2.6% in :98P-89.
1.4       The Paz Zamora Government, inaugurated in 1989, has adhered to the
previous Government's commitment to economic stability and a market-oriented
structure of incentives; it has also made progress in crucial structural reforms
necessary  for growth.    For example,  the present  Government  has  removed
restrictions on the interest rate charged to final borrowers for development
credits and has retired some of its commercial bank debt as well as a portion of
its debt to Brazil. In addition, Bolivia received a highly concessional debt
rescheduling agreement from the Paris Club in October 1990. As a result of these
efforts, the Bolivian economy continues on the path of recovery, with annual
inflation of 18% in 1990, and the fiscal deficit falling from 5% of GDP in 1989
to slightly over 3% in 1990.
1.5       To summarize, GOB has maintained macroeconomic stability thriugh tight
control of expenditures, tax reform, realistic public sector goods and services
prices and a market determination of the exchange rate. At the same time, the
adjustment program has achieved a comprehensive liberalization of markets,
including rules governing trade, wages employment, interest rates, and capital
flow. Although these changes have brought about economic stability and provide
a solid framework from which growth is possible, further effort is required in
the areas ofs (i) creating a more attractive environment for private investment;
(ii) continued reduction of GOB involvement in the productive sectors; (iii)
continued reorientation of public sector involvement towards basic infrastructure
and social services; and (iv) increased effort in alleviating poverty.
1.6       In the medium-term (1990-92), GOB's strategy is targeted to achieve
a 4% GDP growth rate per year, reduce inflation to levels in industrialized
countries, decrease the overall deficit of the nonfinancial public sector to
around 3% of GDP, increaec public savings to 4% of GDP (from 1.1% in 1989), and
maintain a stable monetary and exchange rate policy to foster irternational
competitiveness. To resume an acceptable rate of economic growth, GOB fully
appreciates; the additional reforms that need to be undertaken.   First, as a



-3-
prerequisite to growth, macroeconomic stability must be maintained through a
flexible exchange rate policy, continued reduction in the fiscal deficit and
prudent external debt management. Second, to resume growth, further structural
reforms are required to increase investments in the productive sectors by fine-
tuning the incentive system for the private Bector, and reduction of the role of
the utate in the productive sectors through privatization. Third, to improve the
efficiency of GOB and to reorient the role of the state, furtier improvement is
required in public sector administration at a global level, and in sectoral
policy administration at the micro level. Fourth, to create the human capital
base for sustained long-term growth, attention muse be pdid to poverty
alleviation.    Within  this  context,  strong  public  sector  financial  and
administrative management continue to be at the heart of GOB's commitment to
sustain its macroeconomic policy objectives.
1.7       This is especially the case given GOB's program of further structural
reforms to increase investments in the productive sectors by fine-tuning the
incentive system for the private sector, and reducing the role of the state in
the productive sectors through privatization. Public enterprises currently
contribute 72% of total bud'-eted current resources (US$1,481 million in 1991, of
which 39% is hydrocarbons) and 49% to total public expenditures (US$817 million
out of a total of US$1,663 million current expenditures in 1991). GOB's intention
is to: shift the relative importance of key export sectors away from the
dominance of hydrocarbons and mining (hydrocarbons constitutes 31% of foreign
exchange earnings and 44% of Government revenues); to improve the performance of
the remaining public sector enterprises through performance contracts; and to
improve basic infrastructure services to complement the productive investments
of the private sector. In this respect, improving the efficiency of the state and
reorienting its role will require significant strengthening in public sector
administration at the global level, in sectoral policy administration at the
micro level, and in public sector involvement to create the human capital for
sustained long-term growth.
B. Structure of the Public Sector
1.8       Organization.   The       Government   is   subdivided   into   central
administration,   regional   governments,   and   local   governments.   Central
administration consists of the central government, universities, and the social
security system. It includes the executive, legislative, and judicial branches
of the central government. The executive branch comprises the presidency, the
vice-presidency, and the ministries. All policies emanate from the Office of the
President and the Ministerial Councils. There are 18 key ministries, with the
central administration comprising 26 institutions, which institutions represent
23% of total budget expenditures (US$613 million of US$2,697 million in 1991).
Some ministries oversee decentralized agencies (13 total), which are still
considered part of the central government. Of these, the only significant agency
is the National Road Service (SNC). The central administration and central
government account for about 80% and 60%, respectively, of the expenditures of
the General Government.
1.9       Local governments are municipalities in urban areas and similar local
governa.nt entities in rural areas (referred to as "municipios").   Regional



-4-
governments include regional development corporations (RDCs) and prefectures.
A prefecture is the regional arm of the executive branch of government and plays
a rather limited, almost purely ceremonial role. Recently, there has been much
discussion of the role of regional government entities, since some of the RDCs
have come to exert disproportionate influsnce over regional development relative
to their role as origina,ly envisaged in the 1974 Law of Regional Development
Corporations.
1.10      The state enterprises are numerous. By far the most important are the
stato petroleum company (YPFB) And the state mining company (COMIBOL). There are
13  other  state  enterprises.    In  addition,  the  Armed  Forces  control  11
enterprises, and there are 8 mixed enterprises (joint ventures with the private
sector among which is the national airline (LAB). As part of the Government's
economic program, many small state enterprises that previously belonged to a
National Development Corporation (CBF) were trarsferred to RDCs. xhus, the RDCs
are both Government entities and owners of public enterprises (50 in total: to
date,  no  reliable  data exist  for these enterprises).    Finally,  the  six
municipalities of the regional capitals oversee 24 enterprises, mainly in water
supply and electricity distribution.
1.11      Decentralized Public Institutions.  This category includes both wholly
owned and mixed enterprises.   They fall under the jurisdiction of sectoral
ministries; however, they have been set up as independent entities with legal and
administrative autonomy. The number of these entities grew rapidly between 1977
and 1936, public institutions from 89 to 103 and public enterprises from 48 to
70. The total number making budget submissions to the central government is now
135: 75 public institutions and 60 public enterprises.   There are also 157
nonfinancial public enterprises, many of which are quite small or are not
operational (even though legally established).
1.12.     The major public institutions include the Central Bank of Bolivia, the
Bolivian Social Security Institute (IBBS) (under which 25 independent social
security  funds operate),  the National  Institute of Statistics  (INE),  the
Emergency Social Fund (ESF), the Social Investment Fund (SIF), the Bolivian
institute for Agricultural Research (IU3TA), and the National Roads Service (SNC).
Mixed and wholly owned public enterprises are expected to provide productive
goods and services at a profit. The major wholly owned public enterprises are
the railways (ENFE), telecommunications (ENTEL), and mineral exploration (ENAF).
The Government controls 80% of the Hydrocarbon sector (YPFB), 70% of air
transport,  70% of electrical energy (ENDE), and 70% of the mining industry
(COMIBOL). It also owns three banks that together constitute 13% of total bank
assets totalling US$1,479 million and have caused a serious drain on the
Treasury. The Treasu 's subrogation of Banco Agricola Boliviano debt in 1989
equalled US$51 million and for Banco del Estado US$50 million.
1.13      Currently, all of Bolivia's nine regions (La Paz, Cochabamba, Santa
Cruz, Chuquisaca, Potosi, Oruro, Tarija, Beni and Pando) operate with
regional/departmental,  and local administrations.   Much of the political and
administrative  responsibilities  are  located  in  the  Regional  Development
Corporations (RDCs) in each region. The RDCs operate enterprises in the areas
of  agribusiness,  cement,  textile  and glass,  with  mixed  results.    Total



-5-
expenlitures attributable to the departmental governments accounted for only 6%
of the total consolidated budget in 1990. The Government is beginning a major
privatization effort that would inciude the liquldation or sale of tneoe
enterprises along with the above mentioned enterprises.
1.14      Inatitutional Canacity at the Municip  Levagel.  Although substantial
capacity differences exist among municipalities, they all share common
institutional shortcoimings, includings (a) poor admintstrative structures, with
considerable  overlap  of  functions  necessary  for  iAnplementing  routine
responsibilities called for in the Organic Law of Municipalities; (b)
inadequate tax administration procedures and poor information systems (or no
system at all) for revenue control; (c) outdated or no municipal property records
that could serve as the basis for determining and verifying payment of property
taxes, which io potentially the main source of local revenues: (d) inadequate or
no planning system, in part due to the short tenure of municipal officials (two
years); (e) low coverage and administration of servicee for which they are
responsible; (f) general deficiencies in financial and administrative systemo;
and (g) deficiencies or no personnel management system.
C. Reform Yeasures
1.15      Backaround.  Bolivia's economic crisis of mid-198S, was fueled by the
virtual nonexistence of a public financial management system, which permitted an
explosive growth of the fiscal deficit and spurious financing of expenditures.
The multiplicity of antiquated and conflicting legal provisions governing public
financial management resulted in an arbitrary budgetary process; a complete
vacuum of accounting systems in the absence of reliable financial data on the
expenditures and performance of public institutions; cash and debt management
based solely on the availability of cash; and the audit control function with in
external pre-controls in which auditors interfered with the entity's managerial
process. In parallel, with the adjustment process initiated in late 1985, GOB
began a reform process of public financial management to establish the financial
information, administration, and control systems critical to efficient management
and controlled use of public resources.
1.16      Despite  the  consolidation  of  public  functions  in La  Paz,  the
Government nas declined to exercise control over the division of responsibilities
among its myriad constituent entities.  With no strict administrative policy
framework, many government agencies havre freely undertaken activities at
departmental and local levels without conforming their efforts to national
objectives or coordinating within and aniong related sectors.  High operating
costs and inefficient outputs have been frequent outcomes. Also, some regional
agencies have become quite strong and influential, able to negotiate their own
investment programs (e.g.. Santa Cruz), while others lack basic administrative
capacity and cannot present viable investment projects (e.g., Pando and Beni).
1.17      The proposed decentralization process  considered by the current
administration includes administrative, financial, and institutional aspects.
A proposed law to reorganize the departmental governments has already been sent
to Congress, but its scope is limited to administrative structures, with no clear
division of responsibilities or new revenue-sharing schemes.   Although much
remains to be done to implement this reform program, the dissemination of the



-6-
SAFCO Law throughout the public administration at all levels should do much to
move the process forwn.d.
1.18      The SAFCO Law.   The SAFCO Law, passed by the Bolivian National
Congress on July 9, 1990, sets the normative framework for country-wide public
financial management. One of the major objectives of the first Public Financial
Management Operation (PFMO-Cr. 1809-80) was to replace the multiplicity of
antiquated and conflicting legal provisions that governed public financial
management with a single comprehensive statute. In the area of budgetina, PFMO
I assisted in the design of a budget process based on the modern participatory
approach.   Within the Ministry of Finance, a General Accounting Offica has been
established, which will be responsible for promulgation of accounting standards
throughout the public sector. A short-term Emergency Program (introduced with
PFMO asqistance) now provides aggregate statistics for the nonfinancial public
sector. This information has proved crucial for public expenditure planning and
control, and helped Bolivia to negotiate an Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility with the IMF.  An integrated accounting system has been created for
medijm- and long-term use (the text of the translated SAFCO Law is in Annex 14).
1.19      In the area of cash management, PFMO facilitated the transformation
of the Treasury from a mere check-writer to a full-fledged manager of budget
execution.   Resorting to ad hoc disbursements to influential or persistent
creditors has been replaced by a system of setting clear priorities for payment
with automation of payment requests. The SAFCO Law abolished the Comptroller
General's   ex ante functions, and thereby rids the system of its built-in
incentives for corruption.  The theoretical framework for a modern system of
external control has been established and internal audit guidelines have been
produced.
1.20      The SAFCO Law established the following interrelated systems:
Budget-Programming and Plannina Systems - RequiLed to delineate the inputs
and expected results of every public entity. These systems include:
operations programming; management of personnel to determine number and
quality of human resources needed to carry out these operations, as well
as procedures for hiring, promoting, and firing public servants; management
of goods and services, including their procurement; and budget formulation,
whereby every entity provides in financial terms the inputs determined by
the application of the preceding systems.
Cash Management System in Treasury - The Treasury (TGN) becomes the only
entity responsible for executing the financial plan of the national budget.
These systems provide the TGN with budget execution procedures so it can
maintain a balance between disbursements, the availability of funds, and
the governmental policy priorities, and at the same time minimize
subjectivity in actual disbursements.
Integrated Accounting Systems - Financial information will be recorded
through accounting systems separate from the producers of that information
and from the decision-making agents; thus, accounting information can
provide feedback into the decision-making process without compromising its
independence.



-7-
1.21      Applying the three systems of financial administration should bring
about an organizational equilibrium between operations programming and budgeting,
budget execution and Treasury disbursements, and the recording of financial
transactions and results. Accounting becomes the core of financial information
for the management information system of the public sector. Its role must be
independent  from  management  decisions.    Only  this  independence,  and  an
appropriate hierarchy within the established organization, can assure
transparency in the exercise of public functions by governmental authorities,
auditors, and society as a whole.
1.22      Structural Implications.   Two important institutional changes came
about as a result of the SAFCO Programs the reorganization of both the Ministry
of Finance and the Comptroller General's office.
1.23      (a) Ministry of Finance.   Suprew.ie Decree 22106, passed iL  1988,
reorganized the MF, creating the General Accounting Office (GAO) as a
subsecretariat.  This change is a major accomplishment of the SAFCO Program,
since it established the functional equilibrium required fur efficient management
of public funds. This change brought about the transformation of the TGN from
a cashier to the actual manager of public  funds.   It also allowed  for
improvements in the budgeting function by developing detailed methodologies for
budget formulation. In addition, the GAO began to produce, for the first time
in Bolivian history, financial statements, useful for managers of public
entities.
1.24       The Ministry of  Finance essentially was reorganized  into  five
subsecretaries: Treasury, Public Budgeting, Tax Collections, General Accounting
Office, and General Coordination. This reflects the separation of incompatible
functions in the management of public funds and was based on the following
notions: (a) external control should not interfere with the administration and
functioning of public entities, i.e., ex Post control should obtain, which should
then feed back into management as an element for corrective action; (b) external
post-control (auditing) is irrelevant if the administrative systems required to
plan and execute functions are not in place--since the lack of such
administrative systems endangers the efficiency of governmental policies, since
it calls into question the executing capacity of those public entities
responsible for implementing policies; and (c) the lack of administrative systems
that have characterized the Bolivian public sector must be corrected, especially
those relating to the management of public funds.
1.25      The SAFCO Law then legitimized this structure and identifies the MF
as responsible for the implementation of financial administration systems, with
the GAO responsible for the establishment of accounting systems government-wide.
The SAFCO Law gives the MF clear responsibility for implementation and review of
operations programming, organization of the public sector, budgeting, personnel
management, procurement of goods and services, Treasury and public credit, and
integrated accounting (Annex 13). The law also defines "public indebtedness,"
external and internal, and establishes the State (in practice the TGN) as
guarantor of all public sector indebtedness. Finally, the law separates fiscal
and monetary authorities, making the Central Bank an independq.nt monetary
authority, no longer dependent on MF.



-8-
1.26      Supreme Decree 22726, paosed on February 6, 1991, reestablished the
GAO as a subsecretariat in the MF. (A previous decree had proposed making GAO a
separate entity reporting simultaneously to the MF and the Presidency.) Thus,
the current organization of the MF includes four subsecretariats: Accounting,
Operations Programming/Budgeting, Treasury (which now includes Tax Collections),
and Financial Administration (formerly the Coordination Subsecretariat) (see
Annex 6).
1.27      (b) The CQomtrgller General. CGR is responsible for external control
and auditing functions, and for establishing norms and standards for internal
control systems in public entities. The Comptroller General is appointed by the
President for a 10-year term. The current Comptroller General has taken a lead
in preparing GOB's program to improve financial information, administration and
control in public sector entities.  During his administration, CGR staff was
reduced by 50% (from 1,186 to 592). Efforts to reorganize CGR and develop a core
of competent auditors continues. An important breakthrough of CGR was also the
removal of ex-ante control functions.
1.28      The SAFCO law outlines CGR's functions and calls for a change in the
organization and functions of the Comptroller's Office so that it can fulfill its
responsibilities as the standards issuing entity of the governmental control
system and as the  senior public auditing  institution.    Furthermore,  all
activities that are incompatible with its auditing function, including fiscal
claims proceedings, have been eliminated.
1.29      Substantial additional effort is now needed to develop this control
system by CGR. The implementation of the auditing component during the SAFiCO
program lagged significantly behind the other components, basically due to the
absence of adequate accounting systems which has delayed the auditing progran,
as there was no information available to audit. Yet, it is expected that with
the legal authority established by the SAFCO law, and a financial administration
system in place, CGR will be able to develop the control functions by producing
reliable audit reports and orienting public entities in their own development of
internal controls.
1.30      These  reforms,  though  constituting  only  the  first  phase  of
improvements to the system, have had measurable impact on public financial
management, including: (a) reduction of budget deficit from 7.5% of GDP in 1987
to 0.8% in 1988, and has been instrumental in attaining the agreed IMF targets
for 1989 and 19901 (b) production of budgets that reflect Government's priorities
in terms of expenditure ceilings and individual entity's operational goals; (iii)
public investment decisions being made based on financial analysis of requesting
entities; (iv) closer monitoring of wage bill increases by the Cabinet; and (iv)
the aggregate statistics for the non-financial public sector produced under the
Emergency Program have been crucial for public expenditure planning and control
and helped Bolivia to reach an agreement with the IMF.
D. Remaining Constraints
1.31      Imglementing the SAFCO Law. Given the narrow margin in managing its
public finances, the Government of Bolivia must be able to monitor expenditures



-9-
with greater precision.    To this end,  clear  financial  reporting on the
performance of governmental entities and enterprises must take place by making
them accountable for their performance. The SAFCO program has gone a long way
toward giving MF the oversight capacity it needs to monitor expenditures and
program its resources. It has also developed the framework for CGR to enforce
public accountability.   Yet, additional work is needed to:  (a) bring these
financial administration tools (budget formulation, integrated accounting, and
cash management) to every public entity; (b) strengthen basic financial and
operational audit capabilities of CGR; and (c) introduce similar administrative
systems and standards for non-financial systems--operations programming,
procurement of goods and services, personnel management, and organization of the
public sector.
1.32      The importance of extending the SAFCO reforms to the entity level is
based on the need for appropriate budget execution mechanisms, which involve the
supervision, review of operations, costs and requirements.   While it may be
easier to establish methods and devices for control of entity expenditures (as
has been done through the TGN's budget execution system at the central level),
than to develop entity's responsibility for effective participation of budget
execution, without such responsibility, budget execution will become a process
of reviewing transactions for compliance and considering requests for deviations
in account transfers, rather than an actual management and control of finances
by every entity. The danger with the latter is that all systems introduced run
the risk of becoming merely formalities rather than self-management tools for
public sector entities.
1.33      Cash management and public credit is probably the most poorly defined
function in the structure of the Bolivian public administration, since there are
so many entities and administrative units. There is a special Public Credit Unit
in the MF Treasury Secretariat but it is small and weak. In addition, MPC also
has a special unit to expedite external credit. The Banco Central de Bolivia
(BCB) has an external Credit Management Unit and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
also has a special unit for international agreements, specifically including
credit. The SAFCO Law determines how this should be reorganized for
simplification and efficiency. Public Credit should be a fully capable
Directorate under the MF Treasury Secretariat, able to formulate policies,
implement them, and manage the debt while not duplicating functions and systems
already in place.
1.34      Also, interinstitutional relationships governing the management of
public credit need to be implemented, as provided for in the SAFCO Law.  For
example, BCB performs functions such as debt management on behalf of MF, and more
generally acts as a financial agent for MF.   It performs these functions,
however, without systematically providing accounts reports or other information
to MF.   GOB is attempting to establish an information flow between the two
agencies and to ensure that all of BCB's efforts on behalf of MF are transparent
in the national budget.
1.35      New arrangements should also be installed between MF and MPC.  The
SAFCO law confers public investment responsibility on MPC. Since the Bolivian
public sector generates no savings, this means that MPC prepares a plan to be
negotiated with international donors. This plan, however, is formulated within



-10-
the public credit policy guidelines spelled out by MF. Whenever a project is
proposed, it should first undergo evaluation by the relevant sectoral ministry,
RDCs or other public sector entity, and then be presented to MPC for approval in
conformance with the public investment plan. Only after this review is performed
should the plan be negotiated with international donors, with the support of the
Ministry of ioreign Affairs. Currently, the system does not work like this, and
there is a duplication of functions and responsibilities.
1.36       The TGN, once a simple check-signer, now controls expenditures and
disbursements in accordance with budget quotas, availability of funds and within
macroeconomic ceilings but needs to concentrate on its accounting function. In
this regard, PFMO I helped: (a) prepare manuals describing how to formulate and
execute budgets; (b) design systems for monitoring quotas, actual disbursements,
simplifying payments and ultimately :educing substantially the past TGN
"subjectivity"; (c) design systems to he'p reconciliate Bank statements informing
rapidly on fund availability; (d) allovw for public pensions to be more regularly
paid and greatly simplified; (e) enable Public Credit to take stock of
outstanding debts as well as payment schedules for principal and interest due;
and (f) issue manual for the public credit function within TGN.
1.37      Current information systems are limited in coverage to the central
administration, and lack a module to consolidate and maintain a financial data
base suitable for frequent and high-level consultation.   While the existing
integrated system tracks budget execution, cash flow information, and budgetary
assignmenc in real time, much work is needed to integrate existing software and
improve processing time.   The provisional budget formulation and evaluation
systems are extremely slow to operate and difficult to modify. And no support
is provided for auditing and Treasury functions. CGR also lacks minimal audit
operations and resources control systems and computer equipment to speed audit
work in the field. Similarly, the Treasury lacks a basic cash management control
system. This is aggravated by a lack of integration between budgeting systems
and other GOB's systems, i.e., accounting and planning. Furthermore, systems
currently operating are not compatible reducing the benefit of the information
flows throughout the public administration.
1.38      Although the SAFCO Law has been successful  in defining how the
auditinc function should be linked to other functions of public sector financial
management, the original goals are far from being met. Indeed, the first training
course for auditors was just completed in early 1991. It will take a few years
for auditors to gain practical experience and develop professional judgment, and
even longer to develop into skilled audit managers. There is an urgent need to
perform financial and compliance audits throughout the public sector but CGR
cannot meet this challenge for lack of an appropriate organizational structure,
well established norms and procedures, and an adequate number and quality of
specialized staff. Internal auditing has been studied, but to date there is no
real internal audit function in the public sector, since those called internal
auditors perform other, often incompatible duties.
1.39      Moreover,  formal training courses have just begun to scratch the
surface of potential trainees who must learn basic principles of accountability
and control, not to xiention those needing specialized training. Thus far, less
than 5% of potential trainees have been reached. In this respect, PFMO I was



-11-
less successful in reaching its stated objectives. The CGR did develop basic
standards for governmental auditing and organization of internal auditing units
in public entities; however, the numerous revisions of these standards delayed
the training in governmental auditing.  In addition, the delay in performing
external post-control was due to lack of administrative systems required to plan
and execute functions in the public entities.   Furthermore,  CGR's recent
activities were concentrated on lobbying for the passage of the SAFCO Law, since
the law represents the essential legal basis for the enforcement of
accountability through CGR's audits.
1.40      Traditional civii service issues make it difficult to retain qualified
public servants and to modernize the public sector. Programs such as economic
recovery and social development are constrained in this regard. This also applies
to financial management and cont..ol functions.  However, GOB's dependence on
international donors requires that adequate salaries for key officials and needed
professionals   be   assured   and   harmonized   to   avoid  unnecessary   and
counterproductive competition for the limited human resources available in the
country. A Public Sector Management Program was originally discussed with GOB
and the donor community in mid-1988 to remedy this situation, with a concrete
proposal made by GOB to the July 1988 Consultative Group. This has recently made
progress and a pilot project in MF is at the implementation stage.
E. Donor Assistance and Coordination
1.41      IDA helped the Government initiate major changes in its fiscal and
financial systems as early as 1984, when it contributed to diagnose weaknesses
in public accounting and auditing. IDA intensified its efforts as part of its
commitment to support GOB's New Economic Policy by working alongside CGR in
designing a program to improve financial management and control of public sector
entities. This program resulted in Public Financial Management Operation (PFMO
I) (US$ 11.5 Million, SDR 9 Million), which became effective in December 1987,
and was fully disbursed in March 1991. PFMO I provided financial information,
administration and controls, and build related staff's know-how in the most
important central and decentralized public entities and built an efficient tax
administration system to enable implementation of the 1986 tax reform. PFMO I has
been highly successful in achieving its objectives, particularly in improving the
availability and quality of financial information required to exert financial
control and discipline. Annex 16 provides a tabular presentation of PFMO I' s
performance, shortcomings and resulting further actions required.
1.42      Indeed, the most notable improvements financed by PFMO I have been the
significant advances in tax administration, with statistical and audit functions
for the Internal Revenue Department and institutional support for the
subsecretariat of Tax Collection in MF, as well as its predecessor the Ministry
of Tax Collections.   A comprehensive tax collection system through the banks
became the centerpiece of the new tax administration effort. Technical assistance
in this area was instrumental to an increase in tax revenues of 480% in the first
year of implementation as a result of reduced tax evasion and corruption.
1.43      USAID has also a long tradition of supporting Bolivia' s financial
management. In the late 1969's and in the 1970's it provided technical assistance



-12-
for financial management and it financed the CGR building. A new accounting
system was set up under responsibility of MF and a professional approach to
auditing was introduced in CGR through an intensive nine month training program
offered over several years for the audit staff. New decree-legislation set forth
modern accounting principles and standards, a new structure for CGR and a
"National System of Control".
1.44      Additionally, an IDB project, recently approved by its Board, includes
a substantial institutional development component (US$5.5 million) to help
strengthen the municipal capacity of at least 9 Department capitals and El Alto
and 22 more regional entities participating in its urban development program
through technical assistance, training, information systems and equipment. This
effort will be channelled through the Regional Development Fund (FRD).
Coordination in preparing the new financial management systems under PFMO II, has
been ensured and is expected to continue during implementation. The proposed
PFMO II, described below, will support efforts in financial management
capabilities for other municipalities, so that SAFCO law principles, norms, and
regulations can be implemented and institutionalized.
F. Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.45      IDA's broad country strategy is based on an effort to assist GOB in
implementing its medium-term economic program for achieving growth and
investment. Bolivia faces severe constraints on its resources which allow it
little room for deviation from the current macrostabilization program, making
public financial management essential in maintaining control over public
expenditures. Supporting these financial management reforms through broad-based
institutional efforts is at the core of the country strategy. An IDA proposed SAC
would address these issues supporting the following: (a) maintenance of a
coherent macroeconomic policy aimed at continued stability; (b) financial sector
reform to strengthen banking supervision, privatize or close and liquidate loss-
making public banks, improve the allocation of donor-financed credit, establish
a mechanism for handling bank crises and improve the laws and regulations
governing pensions, insurance, and securities markets; (c) signature of
performance contracts and improvements in operation of the major state
enterprises; (d) a comprehensive privatization program with the medium-term goal
of divesting all state enterprises in productive sectors (with the exception of
mining and hydrocarbons due to Constitutional restrictions); (e) streamlining of
trade and registration procedures, including customs reform, a duty drawback
system, simplification of export approvals and simplification of firm
registration and control mechanisms; (f) cooperation with the Bank in improving
public sector investment project selection; and (g) increase in the share of
current expenditures devoted to primary health care and primary education. It
is important to complement such a reform program with modern financial management
procedures and standards to achieve a higher level of efficiency in the public
sector, in harmony with this trend in the PEs. This goal is a feature of the
public sector financial management reforms throughout the centralized and
decentralized public sector agencies as called for by the SAFCO law.
1.46      IDA  has  actively  supported  GOB's  efforts  to  consolidate  its
stabilization  reforms.    In addition to an operation  in public  financial



-13-
management, IDA has taken a lead role in assisting GOB in investment planning,
statistics, and regional planning through an IDA-financed Economic Management
Strengthening Operation (EMSO). EMSO is also supporting GOB's critical problem
of low salaries and little continuity of middle level public servants
(complicated further by its ad hoc payment and recruitment arrangements) through
the rationalization of the salary structure in the short term (through the Public
Sector Management Scheme) and the establishment of a sound management and
personnel system in the long run. In the financial sector, IDA has contributed
to the establishment of a sound framework for financial intermediation through
the previous Financial Sector Adjustment Credit.   These basic reforms are
prerequisites to building coherent financial and economic decision-making. GOB
has now requested that the Association support expansion of public financial
management reforms introduced throughout the central government with the
assistance of the Public Financial Management Operation (PFMO I) Cr.1809-BO.
1.47 The proposed Public Finar.ial Management Operation II (PFMO II) aims at
enhancing GOB's financial management capabilities, critical for policy execution,
implementing uniform and compatible guidelines and procedures for public
financial management government-wide so as to ensure a more efficient use of its
scarce resources. This would be achieved through: (a) expanding comprehensive
accounting reforms to representative decentralized institutions; (b) broadening
the scope of existing financie.l administration and control systems to local
governments and decentralized institutions; (c) including other nonfinancial
systems needed for efficient allocation of resources; and (d) training. The main
objective of this effort is to create financial management and control
capabilities at the entity level, not only at the integrated central ministries,
to extend financial discipline throughout the public sector. Furthermore, the
proposed project would strengthen the capacity of the Comptroller General of the
Republic to enforce accountability for results in the exercise of its public
responsibilities.
1.48      If successful,  this  second  IDA-assisted operation would greatly
strengthen GOB's capacity to manage efficiently its scarce resources and at the
same time increase accountability for cost-efficient results in the public
sector.  Additionally, it would contribute to a leaner, more efficient state
apparatus better able to facilitate and stimulate private sector development.
However, public financial management is not a function that can be improved
permanently by any given technical assistance. The dynamic of the sector will
require continued attention and enforcement on the part of future Bolivian
governments before the current administrative culture can progressively absorb
accountability principles and procedures on a sustained basis. It is expected
that other international donors (USAID and IDB and other bilateral assistance)
would also help GOB progress further in this regard. IDA continues to have a
longer-term commitment to the improvement of public financial management of
Bolivia as embodied in the proposed project.



-14-
II. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives
2.1         The Government of Bolivia continues to confront a broad array of
constraints in its attempt to redress the dire economic environment and
administrative chaos of the Bolivia public sector in the early 1980s. Efforts to
develop the legal framework for financial control and auditing of public entities
began with the formulation of the SAFCO Law, approved by special session of
Congress in July 1990. Under PFMO I, success was achieved in developing an
integrated financial administration and control system at the central level of
government. The Government of Bolivia has now requested a follow-up operation to
strengthen financial administration and control norms and procedures introduced
under PMFO I. The objective is to create financial management capability in the
decentralized institutions to facilitate implementation of the SAFCO Law and
enforce public sector accountability.
2.2         The proposed PFMO II would complemelt EMSO's efforts to diagnose the
financial and organizational capacity of t: .-centralized levels of government
and administration.   Whereas PFMO I developed initial financial management,
control, and oversight capacity of MF and CGR, PFMO II would concentrate on the
othar public sector entities at tne national and local levels, completing the
effort to provide the Government with management information systems critical to
execute policy and take appropriate corrective measures. Also, PFMO II would
also focus on helping the CGR implement accountability measures so vital to the
transparent management of public funds. Ultimately, the project would contribute
to the long-term institutional building process and in particular, to the
enhancement of the absorptive capacity through enabling GOB to take more
efficient advantage from the community of donors' assistance in general.
B. Proiect DescriPtion
2.3         The proposed project comprises four main components: I. Financial
Management and Control; II. Regulatory and Legal fi.mework; III. Training; and
IV. Institutional Support. The specific objectives under each component are
described below.
I.    Financial Manaaement and Control:
(i)   budgeting capacity at the public entity level, transferring
the responsibility for budget formulation from MF to every
entity based on planned activities and investments, and
improving the Budget Subsecretariat's ability to evaluate
budgets;
(ii)  cash management, strengthening the Treasury's functions, fine-
tuning the disbursement and quota mechanisms for budget
execution, rationalizing TGN payments by eliminating
subtreasuries, replacing them by payment through the banking



-15-
system, as well as rationalizing commissions charged for
public services;
(iii) developing comprehensive accounting systems consistent with
guidelines already developed under p%evious operations but
specific to 14 representative entities, for replication in
other decentralized entities and local governments, thus
ensuring uniformity of procedures and classifications not
limited to the reporting of cash flows; and
(iv)  government   auditing,   to  enable   CGR  to   assume   the
responsibilities outlined in the SAFCO Law, specifically to
enforce public accountability in a coherent and harmonized
manner.
2.4         Budgeting.   This element is intended to generate program-based
budgets for the major public entities at all administrative levels, as well as
providing these entities with evaluation information to progressively improve
their own budgeting practice.   Under this component:  (i) use of the newly
developed manuals and standards will be disseminated to line ministries, in the
first instance, and subsequently disseminated to major decentralized entities
under these ministries;   (ii) evaluation methodologies will be developed to
assist the ministries and decentralized entities to improve their budgeting
techniques;   and   (iii) further fine-tuning of the budgeting manuals and
standards will be made by the MP Budget Subsecretariat to incorporate more
detailed techniques on operational programming (physical targets), procurement
procedures and personnel management standards developed under a separate
component (para. 2.11). In this regard, it was agreed at Negotiations, that the
program-based budgets would be fully operational at central government ministries
and at major public enterprises by the end of 1992, and Regional Development
Corporations and major municipalities by the end of 1993. In addition, the
component will assist the MF budget Subsecretariat to improve its capacity to
evaluate the implementation of approved budget submissions and to generate
macroeconomic indicators and national accounting statistics on public investments
being undertaken. In this regard, existing computer software will be improved
to make it compatible with the newly established accounting and budgeting
procedures.
2.5         Budaetina Comiponent Inputs and Activities  (US$O.6m)
i.    complete the budget  formulation methodology developed by
introducing     procedures  and  standards  for  operations
programming, personnel management and administration of goods
and services, as well as adjusting the budget formats and
classification to reflect new organizational patterns
introduced (US$64,000);
ii.   transfer budget formulation responsibilities from MF's Budget
Subsecretariat to the public entities (US$74,000);
iii.  provide periodic reviews of budget formulation and evaluation
procedures (US$103,000);



-16-
iv.   strengthen the Budget Subsecretariat's  ability to adjust
individual   and   consolidated   budget   submissions   to
macroeconomic targets (USS 94,000);
v.    develop budget execution evaluation procedures at central and
entity levels (US$94,000);
vi.   make compatible budget formulation and evaluation software
with that developed for accounting and treasury disbursements
(US$112,000); and
vii. expand the computer equipment of the Budget Subsecretariat for
a greater coverage of institutions and information (US$50,000)
2.6         Financing of 43m/m of foreign and 152m/m of local specialists would
be required to guide the process of reviewing norms and procedures, prepare the
corresponding guidelines and manuals. Local specialists would carry out
dissemination efforts and support local and decentralized entities to implement
the new systems. Periodic reviews of the budgeting system would take place the
first four years of project implementation. Annex 5 provides a description of
consultants' proposed terms of reference.
2.7         Cash Manacement and Public Credit. The proposed project would assist
GOB in:   (i) operationalizing the legal framework for consolidating a cash
management system under Treasury by drafting procedures and regulations and
i.ndertaking the necessary organizational changes in the Central Bank, the
Ministry of Planning, and the Treasury;  (ii) improving the efficiency of payment
system of Treasury by eliminating the use of subtressuries and replacing them by
the commercial banking network;   (iii) improving cash management of public
entities through provision of new procedural guidelines and standards;   (iv)
rationalization of commissions charged for public services under "valores
fiscales";  and  (v) improving the Treasury' s income and payment projection
capacity through provision of a computer-based system to track tax revenue
information, cash disbursement, and public debt payment schedules.   In this
regard, it was agreed at negotiations that (a) organizational changes for cash
management in Treasury would be achieved by the end of 1992; (b) the private
commercial banking network for cash transfers would be used starting no later
than June 1992;  and (c)  a timetable, acceptable to IDA, for elimination of
subtreasuries would be submitted by the end of 1991 and actual implementation of
the agreed timetable achieved by the end of 1992. Annex 15 provides details on
the elimination of the subtreasuries.
2.8         Cash Management Component Inputs and Activities (US$0.6m)
i.    design and implement systems for public cLedit,  defining
institutional responsibilities (between the Central Bank, the
Planning Ministry, and the TGN) as outlined in the SAFCO law,
translating it into clear regulations and procedures to be
enforced (US$273,000);
ii.   substitution  of  payments  made  through  subtreasuries  by
payments  directly  through  the  banking  network,  thereby



-17-
eliminating oubtreasuries1. MF has had a favorable experience
of using the banking network for tax collections (for an
analysis   of   advantages/disadvantages   of   eliminating
subtreasuries see annex 15) (US$77,000);
iii.  disseminate new treasury/cash management regulationo to the
decentralized levels of governments and review of the
application of these standards once the entities have
formulated and begun to apply them (US$172,000);
iv.   rationalize  the  issuance  of  public  service  commissions,
including an inventory of exiating fiscal paper as well as the
establishment of clear rules for the provision of public
services (US$64,000); and
v.    provide computer equipment to support above-defined upgraded
functions, track cash payments and record public credit
transactions (US$25,000).
2.9         Provision of 44m/m of foreign financial management specialists would
be needed to help review current systems, fintlize the definition of new norms
and procedures at the center, namely in the MF the TGN Public Credit Directorate.
They would also help launch a dissemination program to be carried out by 186m/m
of local financial management specialists, financed by the proposed project, to
ensure adequate enforcement of the system throughout the public administration
at all levels.  Annex 5 provides a description of the consultants ' proposed
terms of reference.
2.10        Accounting  System.  The  objective  is to  develop  comprehensive
accounting systems throughout the public sector, consistent with the accounting
guidelines already developed by PPMO I, to ensure uniformity of accounting
procedures and classification.   It would help entities recognize accounting
requirements and their basic relationship to budgeting. This would be done by:
(a) the development of accounting systems in 14 representative decentralized
institutions, with dissemination of these models to 116 decentralized
institutions; (b) the adaptation of the existing generalized "Manual for
Decentralized Institutions" to 58 decentralized institutions not part of the
representative sample; and (c) adoption of existing "Guidelines for Public
Enterprises" to 50 enterprises that cannot finance the development of their own
accounting systems; and (d) the development and implementation of simplified
versions of accounting, budgeting, and cash management systems to 90
representative smaller local institutions (provinces, hospitals, educational
centers, airports). In this regard, it was agreed at negotiations that GOB would
complete the development of accounting system and implement it for each group of
entities as follows:  (i)  by the end of June 1993 for the 14 representative
decentralized institutions and by June 1994 for the dissemination of the
corresponding models to 116 decentralized institutions; (ii) by the end of 1994
It is important to note that 56% of the TGN's current staff is located in
the sub-treasuries.



-18-
for the adaptation of the existing generalized Manual for Decentralized
Institutions to 58 decentralized institutions not part of the representative
sample; (iii) by the end of June 1994 for the adoption of existing Guidelines
for Public Enterprises by 50 enterprises of a smaller size; and (iv) by the
end of 1994 for the development and implementation of simplified versions of
accounting, budgeting, and cash management systems to 90 representative smaller
local institutions (provinces, hospitals, educational centers and airportw.
Annax 13 provides a description of the strategy to be adopted for reaching such
outputs.
2.11        The GAO will take on the responsibilitl for consolidating fiisancial
statements of the public sector, including cash flow information, which LS
currently handled by the "Emergency Program" of the SAFCO program. Assistance
would be given to GAO to: (a) develop the capacity to incorporate balances from
the public entities into its integrated governmental accounting balance; and (b)
review existing accounting systems and the proposed modified systems, especially
in those not directly financed by the project such as public enterprises. In this
regard, it would be at negotiations that the Emergency Program staff would be
absorbed by the end of June 1992.
2.12        Accounting  Component Inputs and Activities (USS 3.8m)
i.    develop auxiliary detailed accounts and supplementary accounts
of the central administration, completing the financial
information the ministries currently provide GAO by broadening
the detail of accounts, and disaggregating the accounting
classification they currently use for their own financial
management.     This  also  includes  the  development  of
institution-specific   modules  to  feed  data   into  the
computerized financial information system. (US$234,000);
ii.   install integrated accounting systems to the 14 decentralized
entities, including: one Prefectura, two Regional Development
Corporations, two Pension Funds, the National Road Service,
two Hospitals, one university, two municipalities, and three
other decentralized institutions that carry out various
communal services (see Annex 13 for selection criteria,
implementation schedule, etc. ). This activity includes the
development and implementation of a transportable version of
the computerized information system, as well as the
integration of budgeting and treasury functions into the
system (US$1.5 million);
iii.  adopt accounting procedures and classification by adjusting
and applying: a. the accounting "Manual for Decentralized
Institutions" to 58 institutions not covered in point ii, and
b. the "Accounting Guide for Public Enterprises" to those 50
enterprises that cannot finance their own accounting systems
(see  Annex  13  for  the  list  of  these  instituJtions)
(US$483,000);
iv.   implement simplified procedures and standards for budgeting,



-19-
treasury/public credit, and accounting to 90 representative
smaller entities in the decentralized government by nelecting
in each Department. two non-capital municipalities, two
hospital, two educational units, two agencies repreoenting
MACA, and two sports centers (US$309,000);
v.    implement the Public Sector Financial Data Base2 . As the use
of the new accounting, budgeting, treasury/public credit
procedures iB extended to the entire public sector, it ls
possible to consolidate all financial, budgetary, and cash
transaction information country-wide. X national data base
will be created for this purpose, as well as a sophisticated
query and reporting capability for government-wide financial
management.   This data base would gradually replace the
existing "Emergency Program" operation (US$223,000);
vi.   acquire computer hardware/software for the GAO's Information
Systems Unit to expand coverage of the information system
described in point iii above. Larger configuration of the
minicomputer and operation of open version of system
(US$300,000). Annex 9 provides a description of the proposed
office technology for GAO; and
vii.  maintain the "Emergency Program" functioning and providing
statistical data on cash flows from the major public entities
until the accounting systems and information are in place
(US$600,000).
2.13        Financing would be provided for short-term, local (88 man/month) and
foreign (16 m/m) accounting specialists to develop auxiliary accounts at the
Central Administration (activity i); short-term local (96 man/months) and foreign
(46 m/m) to adapt the integrated accounting procedures and system to 108
decentralized entities (activity iii); short-term local (12 m/m) and foreign (6
m/m) systems specialist to transform the computer system into an transportable
open version (part of activity ii);  short-term local (78 m/m) and foreign (24
m/m) accounting specialist to implement the simplified systems to the smaller
entities (activity iv); local (42 m/m) and foreign (20 m/m) system specialists
for creating the necessary data base and information flows already described
(activity v); and local (600 m/m) to maintain the "Emergency Program" for three
years (activity vii). In addition, the development and implementation of the 14
representative financial systems would be subject to international competitive
bidding.   An approximate cost of US$44,000 for 12 of these entities was
calculated, taking into consideration economies of scale and bidding out groups
of entities. The remaining two entities (the pension funds) are more complex and
would require an estimated cost of US$140,000 each (see Annex 13). Since the
reporting function, i.e., accounting, is the core of the financial administration
information system, this component includes information systems recuirements and
2 Note that information systems is included in the "accounting" sub-
component because the General Accounting Office is responsible for "Information
Systems"



-20-
integration of accounting data with budoeting and treasury/public credit
functions.  Annex 5 provides a description of the sonsultants ' proposed terms
of reference.
2.14        Audit'na.   Assistance would be provided to gradually expand CGR's
intervention in public financial control through enhancing the audit scope
towards generating recommendations for the improvement of government efficiency.
In addition, an annual audit plan would be defined and implemented reducing
audits upon request from 70% to about 30% of those performed and reducing CGR's
Offices from eight to three with a consequent upgrading of staff.
2.15        Foreign and local specialist assistance would be provided to review
and/or prepare specific regulations called for by Article 5 of the SAFCO law
relating to reports and audits of those entrusted with, or receiving public
funds. This would expand the audit universe beyond the entities which compose
the public sector to ensure accountability over public resources handled by
others including the private sector.  A new Technical and Programming Office
would be established to become responsible for the issuance of all standards and
guidance and follow up of compliance.   This unit would carry out training
activities (see below) as well, since it would produce many of the materials on
which training would be based. It would also prepare and monitor the annual audit
implementation plan and provide guidance for the internal audit function.
2.16        The most important task facing CGR is the establishment of a cadre
of professional auditors and the performance of audits, which contribute
significantly to establishing GOB's credibility and making it able to enforce
accountability. As a result of this assistance, professional audits would be
performed in a timely fashion in accordance with the annual audit plan so as to
provide cyclical coverage of major resource flows. Also internal control support
units would be creattd in CGR.  Due to limited supply of trained managers and
management consultants available to GOB, these units would assist public entities
in establishing the .nternal control systems prescribed by the new law and
monitor progress the:effter routinely.  The CGR would be assisted to set up the
office of the Depvi'; Comptroller for Legal Affairs,  replacing its former
administrative court .':nction.  CGR's judicial functions have been transferred
to the Judicial Erancl, of GOB by the new law. Once accomplished, the legal
function still at CGR would provide counsel to the Comptroller General and his
staff regarding aspect-s of legal compliance auditing and assuring that legal
processes are efficier. y carried out. A new administrative judgment process
would thus be developer. n the judicial branch and CGR would provide the legal
services necessary for -he audit process on a timely basis as audits are
performed. A draft law X_auld be prepared with PFMO II's support, to set up the
new Administrative Law C( ut t. In this regard, it was agreed at negotiations that
(a) the Contraloria Genexal de la Republica would have established the Technical
Programming Office, the Legal Affairs Office and the office of the Deputy
Comptroller and carried out other organizational adjustments by the end of 1994;
(b) an annual audit plan to carry out external audits of a representative sample
of public sector entities would be made available to IDA and USAID in the POAs
and in the opportunity of reviewing draft contracts with audit firms selected
through bidding processes; by the end of 1993, CGR would undertake or require
that external audits be completed for at least 100 entities and would expand this
coverage over the following two years so as to have achieved external audits on



-21-
90% of public expenditures; emphasis would be on developing government auditing
quality as staff skills would be enhanced; (c) the Contraloria General de la
Republica will inform IDA of the key results of the "special examinations" along
with the response that the Government intends to give to the corresponding
findings; and (d)  the Deputy Comptroller would have extensive training and
international experience in the application of general accounting principles,
auditing standards and management and the General State Accountant would have a
strong background in management systems especially accounting and government
financial management. Annex 12 provides more details on past achievements and
a description of the proposed program and implementation strategy.
2.17        Government Auditina Component Innuts and Activities (US$S.5m)
i.    develop manuals and guidelines for: contracting of independent
auditors by CGR and internal auditing units of public
entities, regulations concerning the internal organization of
the CGR; regulations outlining reporting requirements of all
entrusted with public fund or receiving public funds;
personnel evaluation systems, tracking systems for audits,
results, training and legal proceedings (US$802,000);
ii.   reorganize the CGR (see description Annex 12) s0 that it can
carry  out   the  SAFCO  articles,   namely:   a.   improve
administrative information and internal control systems in the
public sector entities; b. audit information systems,
especially accounting statements; c. assess the efficiency and
effectiveness of public services, holding those responsible
for results accountable (including the performance of ten
special examinations on major projects and enterprises -
US$2.25m); d. facilitate the identification of corrupt
practices  and bringing  forward those responsible.    This
includes the development of the Office of the Deputy
Comptroller for audits to enable it supervise the execution of
ten special examinations and develop the capacity to perform
operational audits through the process(for more detail on the
activities to be financed see annex 12)(US$3.2 m);
iii.  create and develop CGR's capacity to manage legal affairs
related to its responsibilities and work program as outlined
and required in the SAFCO law. This includes drafting of the
Supreme Decree regulating the exercise of public function and
corresponding responsibilities, as well as disseminating this
Decree by holding a seminar.   In addition, it includes the
drafting of the law creating judicial fiscal tribunals and a
data base of administrative law cases (US$821,000); and
iv.   upgrade the CGP's computer processing capacity by providing
additional    equipment,    including   minicomputers    and
microcomputers, and printers (US$427,000). Annex 9 provides
a description of the proposed office technology for CGR.



-22-
2.18        The project would finance:  (a) 64 m/m of international public
accountants with information systems skills assisted by 132 m/m of local
consultants; (b) 162 m/m international public accountants of which 102 m/m are
international evaluation specialist (experts in particular disciplines) assisted
by 261 m/m of local consultants;  and (c)  43 m/m of international governmental
control lawyers assisted by 261 m/m of local consultants.  The project would also
provide financing to perform the ten special examinations referred to above
(para. 67) and to acquire computing eqvipment related to the overall activities.
Annex 5 provides a description of consultants' proposed terms of reference.
II.   Regulatory and Legal Framework:
2.19        After reviewing existing legislation and in light of the SAFCO Law
regulations need to be defined in the following areas:
(i)   operations  programming to ensure common understanding of
procedures to program individual agency's physical inputs,
to be reflected financially in their budgets;
(ii)  public personnel management,  including  standards  for the
selection criteria and compensation packages of public
servants paid by the TGN, in close connection with the EMSO
operation under implementation;
(iii) procurement norms and procedures as well as standards for
theadministration of goods and services essential to enforce
accountability as defined in the new law;
(iv)  organization, to help redefine interinstitutional sharing of
functions and relationships in the public sector, eliminate
redundancies, and establish oreanizational patterns within
public entities; and
(v)   Treasury.. cash management, and public credit standards and
procedures for decentralized institutions.
2.20        Many regulations in the areas of financial management and control
were passed as Supreme Decrees (i.e. the removal of ex-ante internal control by
CGR) and rnow require harmonization with the SAFCO law. This was not done for
lack of a comprehensive administrative systems, namely operations programming,
procurement and management of goods and services, management of personnel, and
organizational structures for public entities. In addition, the need for
rationalizing public sector agencies according to functional responsibilities
leads to a duplication of functions among different entities. This limits the
central administration's ability to exert financial discipline throughout the
public sector. This component would: (a) formulate procedures for the physical
programming of inputs; (b) regulate the management of inputs (personnel and goods
and services) by drafting standards for each; (c) develop standards for internal
organizational patterns, separating incompatible functions; (d) develop standards
for cash management and public credit (leverage); and (e) at the central level,
imp'.ement a rationalized organization of the public sector, redefining number of
entities and at the decentralized level, implement the internal organizational



-23-
patterns at the entity level, incorporating operations programming standards
developed.
2.21        The new public financial management procedures as they result from
the implementation of the SAFCO law, would make it necessary to redefine GOB
interinstitutional sharing of responsibilities and relationships. The project
would help restructure central and decentralized administrations and redefine
their respective roles and jurisdiction, which is essential to reduce the budget
deficit. MF would (a) reestablish the Undersecretariat for tax collection; (b)
eliminate the Undersecretariat of financial administration since this is a new
function of the Treasury; and (c) issue regulations to ensure independence of the
General Accountant Office. It was also agreed at negotiations, that neither CGR
or GAO would cease to be independent throughout the duration of the project and
that any modification to the agreed structures of MF and CGR would be made in
consultation with IDA. Among other important efforts, the removal of redundant
functions and entities offers an enormous savings potential. Annexes 6, 7 and
10 provide organization charts of MF and of the new interinstitutional
relationships network as it would result from the enforcement of the SAFCO Law.
CGR's proposed organization is in Attachment 1 of Annex 12.
2.22        GOB's recent efforts to reduce the size of the public sector by
reducing the number of subsecretariats in each ministry to three demonstrates the
urgency of rationalizing the public sector. As a :esult of this measure, an
important change within MF is the incorporation of the Tax Collections
ubsecretariat into the TGN. This change bring to the Treasury both the
management of revenue collections and the disbursement of expenditures.   The
proposed project would support the on-going efforts for reorganization.
2.23        Reaulatory and Lecal Framework Component Inputs and Activities
(US$l.0m)
i.    revise and adjust existing standards and regulations to that
spelled out in the SAFCO law in the following areas:
organization of MF, budgeting, and integrated accounting.
This activity would also include the revision of the standards
and rGgulations to be drafted (US$256,000);
ii.   draft standards and regulations for: a. operations programming
(US$125,000); b. personnel management (US$94,000); c.
procurement and adminLstration of goods and services,
including their inventory and control (US$42,000); d.
organizational structures (US$42,000); and e) treasury and
public credit (US$93,000).   It is worth noting that the
standards to be developed for personnel management will take
stock of existing Laws ("Carrera Administrativa"), review the
existing selection and compensation rules used in the
management of public servants paid by the TGN (not donor
financed), and develop basic rules and requirements for
attaining stability of public labor (US$394,000);
iii. disseminate standards for operations programming, personnel
management, and procurement and administration of goods and



-24-
services, and review of these once the entities have
implemented their systems (US$178,000); and
iv.   implement organizational structuress at the central level by
restructuring the central administration and decentralized
institutions, redefining number of entities, responsibilities
and scope of each; and at the decentralized level by
disseminating organizational standards according to the type
of entity (US$200,000)
2.24        Financing of 32 m/m of foreign specialists is required to review
existing and new standards;  37 m/m of foreign specialists to draft new
regulations outlined in ii above, with 82 m/m of local consultants to analyze
existing rules and prepare technical documents; 15 m/m of foreign specialist and
48 m/m of local consultants (the ones that drafted standards) to disseminate new
standards and procedures; and 14 m/m of foreign consultants and 72 m/m of local
consultants to implement organizational structures and procedures as well as
restructure the public  sec.sor.   Annex  5 provides  a description of the
consultants' proposed terms of reference.
III. Training in Financial Management and Control Systems:
2.25        Training in basic administration  and control  systems to help
facilitate a flow of competent public sector professionals at the mid- and
higher-level required to operate and continue the systems created as defined in
the SAFCO law.
2.26        Training activities designed to explain and disseminate SAFOO
principles need to be reviewed and curricula redesigned to reflect recent
developments as a result of the actual implementation of the law. The project
would help finance Bolivian instructors who would be trained in teaching
techniques so that all foreign instructors would be completely eliminated on
project conclusion. Building a core of competent public servants is critical
given the traditional weakness of the educational system in producing capable
professionals to work as accountants rather than bookkeepers, and auditors. The
objective of the university-level curricula is to help establish a permanent
vehicle for future training at the post-graduate level in public sector financial
management.
2.27        Trainina Comoonent Inouts and Activities (USS3.48 m)
i.    SAFCO Law Principles and Procedures and Training Program
Management (US$0.97 m). A basic course cycle would be made
available using programmed instruction to prepare Bolivian
financial managers for service in government.  Eight basic
courses would be offered to financial and non-financial
professionals (e.g., lawyers, administrators, managers). A
total of about 1,000 fully trained public servants plus an
additional 700 non-public servants in various stages of the
basic training process would become available by the end of
project implementation. A substantial portion of them would be



-25-
attracted by public service positions if the personnel policy
upgrade defined above is successful. The program will require
careful monitoring and development. Thus, direction of the
training effort will also be financed by the project.
ii.   Financial Management Training (US$1.44 m).  Two-hundred top
performers from basic courses would also be trained to acquire
highly specialized skills and would be offered key positions
in the various Ministry of Finance and the CGR offices defined
above in the two components.
iii.  University-Level Curricula (US$0.7 m).  The project would
assist in designing a master's degree program in Public Sector
Financial Management to meet the medium- and long-term
requirements of financial management professionals. Foreign
university instructors would help design the corresponding
curricula and train Bolivian professors and other specialists,
who would sustain the program by project end. It is expected
that 140 students would be enrolled in 1993/94.
iv.   Training  Center  Infrastructure  and  Equipment  Upgrading
(US$0.4 m).  This component would provide four additional
classrooms in La Paz and  establish a specialized library
furnished with at least 3,000 technical books to maximize
training efficiency and effectiveness.   Furthermore,  four
classrooms would be improved and equipped in two important
regions (south and center south) where courses would also be
delivered. Lastly, a day-care center would be established.
Annex 11 provides a description of the strategy for
implementing the training component.
IV.   Institutionsl Support:
2.28 Institutional support would be provided through USAID-financed line
positions that would be progressively phased out as the project-supported
training program achieves its objective of create the flow of competent public
sector professionals required to operate the systems created as a result of the
SAFCO Law enforcement.
2.29        Institutional Sup w2rt Component Inputs and Activities (US$4.6 m)
i.    Financing of Line Positions in MF and CGR (US$3.0 m).  Line
positions would be financed by USAID and this program would be
progressively phased out during the life of the project and
key corresponding staff absorbed by MF and CGR as training
activities progress.
ii.   Project Management  (US$1.6 m).   See Project Description,
section F, below.



-26-
C. Project Co0ts
2.30        Total project costs are estimated at US$22.3 million with a foreign
exchange component of US$11.3 million or 51% of total costs. Details by project
component are provided below.  More detailed costs, including implementation
timetable and schedule of disbursements are in Annexes 1-4.
ESTIMATED COSTS
Components                            Local   Foreign   Total    %For.Exc.
…------ (USs '000)  …
A. Financial Management                3820     5930      9750        61
A.1 Budgeting                        250      250       500       50
A.2 Treasury/Public Credit           260      300       560       54
A.3 Accounting                      1410     1720      3130       55
A.4 Government Auditing             1900     3130      5030       62
B. Standards and Regulations            250      760      1010       76
3.1 Revision of Standards             -       230       230      100
B.2 Drafting of New Standards        100      ?v0       400       75
B.3 Dissemination/Implem. Std.        60      120       180       67
B.4 Reorgan./Implem. org. Struc.    90        110       200       57
C. Training                            1980     1400      3380       41
C.1 Principles, Course Imp, Manag. 420        450       870       52
C.2 Financial Management Trng.    1440         -       1440        -
C.3 Curriculum Develop. (Master)   120        590       710       83
C.4 Training Center Upgrading         -       360       360      100
D. Line Positions                      2990      -        2990         -
D.1 Ministry of Finance             2070      -        2070        -
D.2 Comptroller General's Office   920        -         920        -
E. Project Management
E.1 Project Unit                     290      720      1010       71
E.2 Management Fee (4% of IDA)                440       440      100
F. Refinancing of PPF                           1500      1500      100
Total Base Costs                       9320    10170    19490         52
Physical Contingencies (3%)             280      300       580       52
Price Contingencies (12%)              1400      810      2210       37
Total Project Costs                   11000    11280    22280         51



-27-
2.31        To ensure the sustainability of the reforms introduced, GOB would
provide financing for 85 line positions in the MF and other related ministries.
Their financing would be progressively reduced and absorbed by the TGN as skilled
staff are made available as a result of implermentation of the training
component. The total cost of these positions is US$2.1 million. The mission
agreed with GOB that these positions are an integral part of the proposed
project. Assurance of their financing would be a legal covenant of the proposed
project document. In addition, 23 high level professionals would be required for
the management of CGR, at a total cost of US$0.92 million. Financing for these
line positions would be provided by USAID generated funds from economic support
funds.
2.32        Base cost estimates are in early-1991 prices. Costs of local and
foreign consultants and those of training were estimated in accordance with
prevailing costs of services and materials. Estimated man-month costs are
US$8,000 for foreign consultants, US$1,200 for local professionals and US$1,500
for local computer progra.nmers/analysts. Pihysical contingencies amounting to 3%
zc, base costs are included. Price contingencies have been estimated at 12% of
base costs. Detailed information and a breakdown of training costs are in Annex
11. Annual rates of inflation used are those projected in the August 30, 1990
Bolivia Updating Economic Memorandum. Local inflation would be about 8% in 1992,
and 5 to 6% thereafter. A 3.3% foreign inflation rate has been used from 1992
onwards.
D. Financing Plan
2.33        The proposed IDA credit of US$11.3 million equivalent would finance
approximately 51% of total project costs net of duties and taxes; this would
cover 100% of foreign costs. A PPF in the amount of US$1.5 million (approved in
March 1991 and May 1991) has supported (i) design of basic formats for accounting
systems of decentralized institutions and public enterprises, (ii) computer
equipment for GAO, and (iii) regulations on the responsibility of public function
by CGR.
2.34        IDA will finance foreign costs up to US$11.3 million.   GOB will
finance the remaining US$11.0 million with locally generated funds from USAID's
economic support funds. GOB should show evidence of budgetary allocation for
every operational operative plan (POA). Formal agreements between GOB and USAID
were reached and fully described at negotiations. The financing plan is set out
below:
Proposed Proiect Financing
IDA   (%IDA)     GOB      Total
--------USS million)----------
Foreign Consultants             5.9      100      -        5.9
Local Consultants                 -         0    3.6      3.6
Training                        1.4       41    2.0       3.4
Equipment                        .3       43      .4      0.7
Incremental Salaries              -        0    3.0       3.0
Project Administration            7        72     .3      130



-28-
PPF Refinancing                1.5      100     -        1.5
Proiect Total (Base Costs)   10.2        52    9.3      19.5
E. Procurement
2.35        As there are no civil works envisioned under the Credit, procurement
would be limited to the purchase of goods and employment of consultants. A plan
for hiring consultants would be submitted to IDA for review and approval as part
of the annual operational program (POA) before the consultants can be hired. The
project contemplates major contracts: a contract for project management covering
consultants assigned to the executive Secretariat, contracts for the development
and implementation of the accounting systems and contrac:s for "specialized
examinations". Consultants would be selected and employed irn accordance with the
World Bank: "Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World bank as Executing Agency". However, for consultancy contracts valued below
US$20,000 equivalent, IDA would review the first three such contracts every year
at all stages of the process. If satisfactory, then further contracts would be
reviewed during field supervision on an ex-post basis. Consultancy contracts
valued above US$20,000 would be subject to normal IDA review procedures, that is
prior IDA review of short lists, evaluation reports, terms of reference, and
contracts.   The same UNDP/OPS contract format for consultants used during
implementation of PFMO I would apply under PFMO II.  Personnel computers and
software would be grouped in contracts above US$100,000 and procured through ICB.
Procurement of miscellaneous items valued below US$100,000 but above USS 20,000
and not exceeding 500,000 in aggregate, would be procured through LCB in
accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.
2.36        The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
above-referred World Bank "Guidelines" will apply to each contract awarded.
Where payments for such contracts are to be made cut of the special account, such
procedures will be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of th-
contract required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) wil.
be furnished to IDA prior to the making of the first payment out of the special
account in respect of such contract. With respect to each contract not governed
by the above, procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines will apply. Where payments for such contracts are to be made out of
the special account, said procedures will be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies together with the other information required to be furnished to
IDA pursuant to said paragraph 3 will be furnished to IDA as part of the evidence
to be firnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 of the Credit Agreement.
This provision will not apply to contracts on account of which IDA has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditures. Local manufacturers are
granted a 15% margin of preference   for coods contracts awarded under ICB
procedures. Finally, any contract for the purchase of computer equipment should
include related maintenance services for at least five years.
2.37        Using PPF funds, GOB is acquiring directly a computer WANG VS-8000
for upgrading GAO computing capacity for a total cost of about US$250,000. After
obtaining full technical justification from GOB and quoted prices for similar
equipment, IDA authorized such direct acquisition recognizing that there would
be no economic advantage in procuring this equipment through ICB given that WANG



-29-
had offered to take back the existing VS-5000 computer and credit US$40,000
towards the cost of the new unit. Moreover, it wao clear that it would not have
been possible to convert the presently PACE-based data management system into an
open software system in less than a year, which would constitute an unacceptable
delay in the implementation of the proposed project.
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
Project Element                 Procurement Methods       Total Costs
ICB      LCB    Others
…(USS million)-------------
Consultants Services                                 9.3         9.3
(less than US$20,000)                           (7.1)a/      (7.1)
Consultants Services                                 2.6         2.6
(more than US$20,000)
Training                                             3.0         3.0
(1.5)       (1.5)
Equipment                     0.4        0.5        0.3          1.2
(0.4)     (0.5)       (0.3)       (1.2)
Line Positions                                       3.0         3.0
Procurement Agent                                   0.4          0.4
(0.4)       (0.4)
Total                0.4       0.5        18.6         19.5
(0.4)     (0.5)       (9.3)      (10.2)
a/ IDA financing is in parentheses
Disbursements
2.38        The disbursement schedule reflects a phasing of activities, based on
the need to build institutional capacity related to the financial management
functions.   The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed against: 100% of
foreign consultants; 100% for imported equipment and materials; 100% of fixed-
term personnel costs of the Executive Secretariat; and repayment of the PPF
advance. GOB is committed in the longer term to absorb project benefits through
its financing of activities such as normal line positions responsible to carry
on the implementation of the SAFCO law; the continuation of the project
management in the form of a public financial management function integrated in
GAO; about one additional "special examination" per year after 1993; and training
activities. GOB expects that most of the IDA Credit would be disbursed at the end
of the third year of implementation.   Disbursement would be made against
statements of expenditures (SOEs) except for contracts for goods and services
valued at about US$20,000 or more and the first three contracts for services
every project year. The project management unit would retain documentation for
expenditures and make it available for the independent auditors and for review
by IDA during supervision missions.



-30-
Accounts andg iudit
2.39        The Project Executive Secretariat would maintain separate accounts
including a special account for all expendituren funded under the Credit.
Project accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory
to IDA, including audit of the MSA contract. The audit reports, of such scope
and in such detail as IDA shall reasonably request, would be submitted no later
than six months following the end of GOB's fiscal year.
F. Proiect Imolementation
Proiect Management
2.40        The proposed PFMO II would be organized in three separate subprojects
with complementary objectives but independent implementing arrangements and
budgets: MF wo%'ld be responsible for budgeting (paras. 2.4-2.6), cash management
(paras. 2.7-2.9), accounting (paras. 2.10-2.13) and standards and regulations
(paras. 2.19-2.24); and CGR would be responsible for government auditing and
control (paras. 2.14-2.18) and training (paras. 2.25-2.27). The interministerial
council, CONSAFCO, established for ensuring the policy-making and other overall
supervisory functions, would be continued with the same membership which consists
of:   the Ministers of planning and coordination,  finance,  the Comptroller
General, the Central Bank Prenident, the State Accountant General, the
Undersecretary for public investment and international cooperation and the
Assistant Comptroller for training. GOB has agreed that it will maintain the
current composition of CONSAFCO and the Project Management Unit, including the
project director and his staff, and their successors would be satisfactory to
IDA.
2.41         Management of the project would be the responsibility of a Project
Management Unit (PMU) which would report directly to a CONSA&PCO designated
member. This unit would include, in addition to the project manager (42 months)
the head of the emergency program (national, for 12 months ) as this staff and
their functions would be completly integrated into the GAO by the end of 1992.
(The organizational structructure and relationship with implementing agencies
appear in Annex 7).   In this regard,it was agreed during negotiations that
appointment by GOB of CONSAFCO members others than the officers described above
and of PMU's staff (Project Manager, administrative staff and supervising
consultants) would not be modified without prior consultation with IDA. Also, it
was agreed at negotiations that the SAFCO law would not be waived, abrogated or
suspended by any of the parties for the duration of the project.
2.42        Unlike PFMO I, which was implemented through a UNDP/OPS management
services agreement, PFMO II' s funds would be administered directly by the
existirtg Project Management Unit, which would also) serve as a procurement agent,
contracting and paying consultants on behalf of (wOB. IDA and USAID would retain
all routine technical supervision functions.   It is expected that this would
contribute further to the institutional development process, which is at the core
of this project.



-31-
Annmal Work Prorgam and Reporting
2.43        The project would be implemented on the basis of an annual work
program called "Programa Operativo Anual" (POA). The format has been agreed at
appraisal. A first POA for the remaining months of 1991 has been agreed during
negotiations, based on what had been achieved to date in each of the proposed
program items. Subsequently, the POA would be submitted to IDA by November 15
of every year for an exchange of views on what is programmed as compared to what
was achieved. POAs would include the following;
Part 1:     Evaluation of the previous POA to September 30. The first POA
has been submitted at negotiations: it describes what would be
achieved by the end of 1991 using PPF funds; and
Part 2:     Annual   objectives   for   each   implementing   entity   or
administrative unit. The  Accounting Office, for instance,
should have its own POA, as well as the Undersecretariat of
Budgeting, etc. Resources available to achieve t!is annual
objectives would be identified for every component including
financing sources. Taske would describe who will do what
within the particular entity to acquire (procurement tasks),
use (operational, practical tasks), and sustain (maintenance,
counterpart work tasks) the benefits of goods or services
corresponding to the use of available resources. Component
objectives and tasks would include monitorable, tangible,
expected outputs and related timetables (relevant categories
of targets, and specific key output targets were agreed at
negotiations).
2.44        POAs would then be implemented separately by the different entities
in charge but under the supervision of the Project Management Unit Director, who
would have to approve and consolidate POAs before sending them to IDA for comment
and approval. The consolidated POA also would include a project-wide budget and
procurement plan. (A proposed implementation schedule is included in Annex 1).
The information included in the biannual reports would be reported to Congress
once a year in an integrated fashion, before it reviews the yearly budget, along
with a progress report on implementation of the SAFCO Law. Tripartite reviews by
GOB, IDA and USAID and including among others, a certified public accountant with
experience in management systems agreable to all three parties, would be carried
out once a year in November as a basis for reaching agreement, on the following
year POA.  The first such review would be carried out in November 1991.  The
second review (November 1992) will be more in-depth, in the form of a mid-term
review to analyze achievements against the measurable performance indicators
included in Annex 8, and modify design if deemed necessary to improve
implementation and outputs. If implementation thus far is satisfactory to all
parties, IDA and GOB would start preparation of a possible third public financial
management operation to address in priority topics of importance such as the
delivery of the master degree in accounting and management, additional key
special examinations, and further dissemination of the integrated accounting
syqtems, all topics which have been dropped from the original project design
until the steps included in the proposed project are achieved successfully.



-32-
2.45        The Project Director would be responsible for preparing semiannual
progress reports for submission to IDA as well ao for preparing the project
completion report, to be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the
Credit closing date. The sams format would be used as for the POAs, but adding
comments  on  achievements  or  shortcomings  and  formulating  corrective
recommendations to GOB and IDA. Every implementing agency would be responsible
for providing the necessary documentation to enable the Director to prepare the
progress and completion report. CONSAFCO, and the Project Management Unit's
Director and staff were already in place at the time of negotiations.
III. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Proiect Benefits.
3.1     The project is a fundamental part of GOB's strategy to successfully
implement and sustain the momentum for economic change achieved thus far under
the new economic policy in general, and the first PFMO I project in particular.
This project would be central in helping GOU achieve more efficient use of scarce
public resources. More specifically, the proposed operation is expected to yield
the following benefits:
(1)   sound decision-making process through the broadening of financial
information systems throughout the government;
(2)   tighter control of carrent expenditures through the improvement of
budget formulation administration-wide, coherent, uniform public
accounting and control systems in the State-owned enterprises and
through improvements in the integrated accounting system designed
thus far with the strengthening of the Accountant General's Office
in MF;
(3)   qualified  officers  and  public  servants  with  basic  financial
marasgement skills and tools, norms and standards;
(4)   improved allocation of public credit and investment to public
entities and projects as a result of reliable financial statements
and accountability for use of public funds and for results and the
reduction and possibly elimination, of inefficient public sector
investments;
(5)   substantial savings and reductions in fiscal deficit that would let
GOB provide the public services necessary for long-term development,
rather than invest in inefficient public enterprises and
institutions; and
(6)   overall, it is expected that the proposed project make a substantial
contribution to the enhancement of the GOB' s absorptive capacity
thus increasing efficiency of the community of international donors'
assistance.



-33-
B. Proleot Risks
3.2         In  addition  to  the  possible  difficulty  for  the  Bolivian
administrative structure and culture at all levels to absorb the discipline in
public financial management which is at the core of the proposed project, tikere
are three related risks: (i) high turn-over of staff; (ii) ad hoc changes in the
financial management proc3dures; and (iii) lack of consistent application of
information generated by the SAFCO system to GOB' a decision-making process. The
staff turn-over, caused mainly by low salaries and high private sector demand for
skilled manpower (e.g., accountants, auditors), is being addressed through the
establishment of the Public Sector Management Scheme where civil service
conditions of pay and employment are being adjuated to compete with the private
sector. In regard to the Ad hog changes in procedures, it will be agreed with
GOB during the negotiations, that all institutional and procedural changes
regarding the SAFCO system would be made after consultation with IDA. While the
largely political risk regarding GOB' s possible disregard of SAFCO-generated
information in its decision-making process cannot be entirely mitigated, specific
actions would be taken to reduce this possibility. It would be agreed at
negotiations that (a) annual reports would be submitted to Congress on the
progress of implementing the SAFCO Law, thus ensuring that GOB policy-makers
would be aware of the available information; and (b) satisfactory review of
project implementation and following year work program on an annual basis would
be a condition of continued financing of the project by IDA.
IV. ACREEMEN S REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.1   During the al.praisal mission, the SAFCO law was reviewed and confirmation
obtained from Bolivian counsel that the same is valid and in force.   A
confirmatory statement to this effect has been obtained in the legal opinion
provided to the Bank, in accordance with Saction 12.02 of the General Conditions
of the Association.
4.2      During Negotiations. the followina agreements were reached:
(a)   the SAFCO Law will not be waived, abrogated or suspended for the
duration of the project (para 2.41);
(b)   any modificatiorn to the agreed structures of the Ministry of Finance
and the Contraloria General de la Republica that might have a
negative effect on the objectives of the project would be an event
of default (para 2.21);
(c)   the Gover ment would, for the duration of the project, maintain the
current t imposition of CONSAFCO and the Project Management Unit,
including the Project Director and his staff, and their successors
would be satisfactory to IDA (para 2.40);
(d)   counterpart funds would be made available by GOB through local
currency generated by USAID's Economic Support Fund and would be
included in annual budgets (para 2.34);



-34-
(e)   for the staffing of the 85 line positions in MF and 23 within CGR
included in the project, applicants would be selected in accordance
with norms and procedures acceptable to IDA (para 2.31);
(f)   biannual reports will be provided in February and August of every
year, including previous semester information on: (i) the number of
entities incorporated into the government integrated accounting
system, producing financial statements and reporting these to the
GAO, (ii) the number of entities producing their own budget
submissions, and (iii) their corresponding participation in the
budget (para 2.45);
(g)   the information included in the biannual reports would be reported
and presented to Congress once a year in an integrated fashion,
before it reviews the yearly budget, along with a progress report on
implementation of the SAFCO Law (para 2.44);
(h)   a first annual work program (POA) for the remaining months of 1991
has been agreed based on what has been achieved to date in every one
of the proposed program items and using funds made available by a
PPF; subsequently, the POA would be submitted to IDA by November 15
of every year for an exchange of views and approval (para 2.43);
(i)   program-based budgets submission by central government' s entities
and major public enterprises by the end of 1992 and by Regional
Development Corporations and major decentralized entities by the end
of 1993 (para 2.4);
(j)   changes  in proceduree and structure of the Treasury would be
achieved by the end of 1992 (para 2.7);
(k)   the private commercial banking network for cash transfers would be
used starting no later than June 1992 including acceptance of
adequate computer controls, audits, sanctions for not collecting
taxes, trasnfers of these funds and debiting of payments (para 2.7);
(1)   a timetable, acceptable to TDA, for elimination of subtreasuries
would be submitted by the end of 1991 and actual implementation of
the agreed timetable achieved by the end of 1992 (para 2.7);
(m)   GOB would complete the development of unified accounting system and
implement it for each group of entities as follows: (i) by the end
of June 1993 for the 14 representative decentralized institutions
and by June 1994 for the dissemination of the corresponding modeis
to 116 decentralized institutions; (ii) by the end of 1994 for the
adaptation of the existing generalized Standards for Decentralized
Institutions to 58 decentralized institutions not part of the
representative sample;  (iii)   by the end of June 1994 for the
adoption  of existing Guidelines  for Public Enterprises by  50
enterprises that  cannot  finance  the development  of their own
accounting systems;   and   (iv)   by the end of 1994 for the
development and implementation of simplified versions of accounting,



-35-
budgeting, and cash management systems to 90 representative smaller
local institutions (provinces, hospitals, educational centers and
airports) (paras 2.10);
(n)   by the end of 1994, the Contraloria General de la Republica would
have carried out its organizational changes (paras 2.15 and 2.16);
(o)   the Contraloria General de la Republica would furnish to IDA, not
later than November 15 of each year during the execution of the
project, an annual audit plan, satisfactory to the Association, for
a systematic external auditing of selected public entities (para
2.16);
(p)   the Contraloria General de la Republica will inform IDA of the key
results of the "special examinations" along with the response the
Government intends to give to the corresponding findings (para
2.16);
(q)   the Deputy Comptroller General would have extensive training and
international experience in the application of general accounting
principles, auditing standards and management; and the General State
Accountant should have a strong background in management Pystems
especially accounting and government financial management (para
2.16);
(r)   the E.ergency Program Staff would be absorbed by June 1992 (para.
2.11)
(s)   exchange of views between GOB, IDA, and USAID in annual tripartite
evaluations of achievements should be carried out as a basis for
reaching an agreement on the following year's POA; the second such
review (1992) will be a comprehensive mid-term review to analyze
achievements against the measurable performance indicators included
in Annex 8, and formulate corrective measures, if necessary, to
improve implementation and outputs (para. 2.44);
(t)   the project and special accounts would be audited on an annual basis
by an independent auditing agency, acceptable to IDA, and would be
submitted to IDA within four months of the close of each  fiscal
year ending June 30 (para. 2.39); and
(u)   neither CGR or GAO would cease to be independent entities throughout
the duration of the project (para 2.21).
4.3.        Prior to Board presentation the Government has presented to IDA:
(v)   formally approved Guidelines for Public Enterprises;
(w)   formally approved Standards for Decentralized Institutions; and
(x)   a letter from USAID to GOB, confirming USAID's supervision role as
previously agreed with the Borrower and the Association.



-36-
4.4         With the above assurances, the proposed project in suitable for an
IDA Credit of US$11.3 million on standard torms for Bolivia.
June 4, 1991



Bolivia                                   Amex I
Pubtlic Sector Finnrcial Management Operation It
Cost Table
Activities/Irputs                      l9plep entation Schedule                                 Project Irputs                       Project Costs
t991   1992     1993     1994     1995  1996    Consultants   Consulting Others                (USSO O0)
-----------     Semesters--        ----------    (man/months)  Contracts           For.Exch.  Local   Total
2nd 1st 2nd 1st 2nd Ist  2nd 1st 2nd 1st   Local          Intern.  Items   Descrip.
---   ---   ---   ---   ---   ---   ---   --   ---   --  . -..--.-  .......    .......... ........ .........    ..... ...  ..---.
A. Consolidating/Expending Fin.Ikigt.
and ControtlNorms a Procedures
1. Budgeting                                                                         152         43                          224      247      471
a)lnclude stwdards in existing                                                      ...         -                          ...      ---      ---
progr.-based budgets               xxx                                            20          5                           20       24       44
b)Transfer budgeting function
to entities from the Budg.Off.     xxx  xxx xxx       xx                          22          6                           28       26       54
c)Enhance budgeting quality       xx  xx        xx                                  26          9                           52       31       83
d)Prepare budg.evaluation
procedures for Budg.Office     xxx xxx  xxx xxx       xxx      xxx                18          9                           52       22       74
e)Develop budget exec.eval.
at central & entities levels   xxx xxx  xxx xxx       xx       xxx      xxx       18          9                           52       22       74
f)Develop budget formulation
and conputer system              x xxx  xxx                                       48          5                           20       72       92
g)Equipment for Budget Office    xxx xxx                                                                     Coapaters               50       50                        -J
2. Treasury 9 Pubtic Credit                                                          186         44                          307      259      566
a)Deslgnilsplment s*t-                                                                                 ...                          ...      ...
for pubLic credit I treasury
in accordance with SAFWL Law      xxxx  xxx xxx                                   72         22                          146       97      243
b)Us - -ng network for pqre.
& eliminate sub-trewuries      xxx x                                              24          6                           48       29       77
c)DIsseminate Treas.Standerds
to decentralized lewels             xxx                                           10          2                           16       12       28
d)Specific stendards reviewed
by lrdersocret. of Treasury        xxx  xxx                                       60          9                           57       72      129
e)Ratilonatiation issice
of fiscal pspers               xxx x                                              20          5                           40       24       64
f)E qipment for Treasury to
include tax revewe and
peyments throuh btk netuerk    xxx xx  xax xnx  xxx                                                       Computers                25       25
3. Accovatfng                                                                        920        116                         1603     1411     3104
a)evie"/lepwnt maxillr                                                            ....        ...                         ...        .
detailed accounts 4
4q2plemntarY accosnts          xxx xxx  xxx    x  xxx                             89         16                          108      106      214
b)tevieW/dNwelop specifle
fin.engt spt. to selected
decentralized levwls (14)          xax  XAX xsa  xxx                              16         10 14 system                67       410     1057
c)eDwlop integrated ae. syst
for dec.levels norms,oced.   xxx xxx xxx xxx  xxx xxx                             96         46                         348        15      463
d)lmpllmnt sIiWif lied we
ayst. In daped local gov.   AA          xxx xxx  xxx xxx  xxX xxx                 78         24                          172      117      289



e)Data base in GAO to
produce fiscal statistics            xxx  xxx xxx  xxx xxx  xxx                      42          20                          150        63      213
f)lncrease CAD Coup. capacity    xxx  xxx             xxx xxx                                                    Computers     268                268
g)Nainitain Emerg.program          xxx xxx  xxx xxx  xxx                               600                                               600       600
4. Goverrcent Auditing                                                                   654        269                          3135     1899      5034
a)Develop manualsBguidelines for:                                                     ----                                     ----     ----     ----
contr.indep/audit.,internal
org.of CGR, reporting requir.  xxx xxx  xxx xxx  x   xxx                             132         64                          454       288      742
personnel eval., tracking sys.
b)Reorg. CGR, Including setting
up Deputy Controtler
for complementary examinat.
develop audit units as trg
progresses 8 create Deputy
Contr.for auditsgimplement.
10 cotpl. examinations        xxx xxx  xxx xxx  xxx xxx  xxx                      261         162 10 sp.exam.             1920     1134      3054
c)Set Off.Deputy Contr. for
Legal Affairs,install new
procedures publ.accountabiilty       xxx  xxx xxx  xxx xxx  xxx xxx  xxx            261          43                          344       477      821
d)Information system for CCR
and equipment for CGR Office         xxx  xxx x.    xxx                                                        Computers     417                417
H. Generating Standards & Regulations
Called for by the SAFCO Law in
the Non-Financial Public Sector                                                           202         98                           764      242      1006
1.Revise/Adapt Norms                 xxx xxx  xxx xxx  xxx                                           32                          256         0      256
2.Draft New Regulations              xxx x                                                82         37                           276       98       374
3.implem.0peration-progr, person.  xxx xxx  xxx             xxx  xxx                      48         15                           120       58       178
procurement systems govern.-wide
4.Reorganization 6 org.systems       xxx xxx  xxx           xxx  xxx xxx       xxx        72         14                           112       86       198
C.  Training for Financial Management                                                                                                1394     1980      3374
1.Training Component Management    xxx xxx  xxx         xxx xxx                           72         21                           128      144      272
and quality control.
2.Review Basic Courses (SAFCO)       xxx x                                                94         48                           319      276       595
3.Training Courses Delivery                                                              307         -                                    1437      1437
a)introductory Course (C-1)                 xxx       xxx xxx                          30                        Expenses                13s      133
(2800 participants)



b)Accounting Course (C-It-A)                xxx      xxx                              124                       Expenses                586       586
(C-ti-B), (CC-lt-A) (C-Ill-B)
(1960 partieipents)
c)Financlal Acdlnistration                  xxx      xxx xxx                           79                       Expenses                373       373
(C-IV), (C-V-A), (C-V-B)
(1300 participants)
d)gov.internal auditing for                 xxx      xxx xxx                           42                       Expenses                196       196
prof. from CGR * other
entities (390 professionats)
(C-VI-A)O CC-VI-B)
e) Accountabitity (C-VII-A)                 xxx      xxx xxx                           32                       Expenses                149       149
(C-VII-B) (490 participants)
3. Master Degree Curriculuw              xxx  xxx xxx  xxx                               46          30 Uni. 907  Equip.150      587      123       710
4. CLemplent Training Center
equipment                        xxx xxx  xxx                                                       Contr.60  Equip.300      360                360
0. Line Positions                                                                                                                            2990      2990
1. Ministry of Finance and
other retated Ministries          xxx xxx  xxx xxx  xxx                                                                                2070     2070
2. Recruit and dewelop a auditors
and managers CGR                  xxx xxx  xxx xxx  xxx                                                                                 920      920
E.Project Administration                                                                                                            1160      290      1450
1. Project Administration           xxx xxx xxx  xxx xxx  xxx xxx  xxx xxx                                                      720       290     1010
2. Management Fee                                                                                                               440                440
F.PPF Refinancing                                                                                                                   1500               1500
Votat Base Costs                                                                                                                   10177     9318    19495
Phsica  Contingencies                                                                                                          300       280      580
Price Contingencies                                                                                                             810       1400    2210
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                                                                                                11287    10998    22285
11287    109        29



IOU VIA                                                           bum 2
ibtic  inncla   agemnt  ueaetion it
Project Cost Simry
(UotiviIos'000)                                                 (US  '000)
X Foreign h    Total                                        S forign   K Total
Local      foreign      Total     Esdwar       BoseCots      Locl       forign       Tota l    Eubww    lasests
-                          - _- _   a_ms    eaum    mu    m                          uumm   mess
A. firwclat Nut-gIIn Control
bum and Proceuwres
1. Ldting                           852          m          1625          48           2         247          224         471          48           2
2. tresswy/PiMic Credit              SW          1059        1953          54           3          259         30?         566          S4           3
3. Accmting                        4868         S841       10709          55           16        1411        16.°        3104          SS          16
4. Auditing                         6S52        10616       17367          62          26         19"9        3135       S5             62          26
Sat-Totat                   1316S        1849        316S4          SS          47        3816         S359        95            58          47
B. Standards and Reguatiaon
1. ReviselAdapt Neom                   0          883        a8S          100           1                      2S6         256         100           1
2. Draft new regulations             338          952        1290          74           2          9           276         374          74           2
3. Iptem.oper-pro9.per.proc.         200          414         614          67            1          58         120         178          67           1
4. Reorganization                    297          366         683          57            1         86          112         196          S?           1
Sit-Total                     83S        2636         3471          76           5         242          764        1006         7n            s
C.  Training for fi -ucial N_gemant
1. Review Basic Courses             1U49         1542        2991          52           4         420         447          867          S2           4
2. Training Oelivery                4958            0        4958           0           7        1437                     1437           0           7
3. Raster Oegree Curricultu          424         2025        2450          83           4          123         587         710          83           4
4. Coqple.nt Eqypisnt                  0         1242        1242         100           2                      360         360         100           2
SWi-Totel                    6831        4809        11640          41          17        1960         1394        3374          41          17
0. Line Positions
1. Ministry of Finance & rel. Ni    7142           0         7142           0          11        2070                    2070            0          11
2. CGR's auditors  snd managers     3174            0        3174           0           S         920                      920           0           S
Sub-Total                   10316           0        10316           0          15        2990                    2990            0          1S
E.  Project Adainistratfon               1001        4002        S003          s0           7         290         1160        1450          80           a
F.  PPF Refiancing                                 25S875       25875         100           4                     1s5O        1500         100           a
TOTAL BASE LINE COSTS   32147       35111       672s5           S2         100        9318       1017?       19495           52         100
Physictal Contingencies    Y-         TI          Z°°l           5-                    7m -2m 5"e                            52         3-5
Price Contingencies       4830        2795         7625          37          11        1400         810        2210           37          11
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS    37943       30940       76853           S1         114       10996       11287       2228S          51          114
38333333S33    33338               3:23         333       *     3         33    *-32*           338         333            3333



BOLIVIA                                         Anuex3
Pubtic Financial Nanagement Operation II
sumrary Account by Project Coqwonent
(USS '000)
Fin.Nngt Coop. Stend.Reg.Coup.Training Coop. Proj.Admin.    Total
==3Cz2mmmZ uuginnZZsinau=:3 333333333za gnauizinzz"m azmg
t.  INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Consultant Services
Local                                   4084               242                                294          4620
Foreign                                 4343               764                                868          5975
.......................    ...............    ....................... ............. ................... .......................
Sub-Total Consultant Services                8427              1006                 0             1162         10595
B. Training                                                                     3095                            3095
C. Office Equipment                           500                                360                             860
......... ................................ ............... ...... ........... .. . . ..... ......... ..  . ... .... ..........
Total Investment Costs                          8927             1006             3455              1162         14S50
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Incremental Salaries                      3000                                                               3000
B. Project Administration NSA                                                                      440           440
.... ........................  ....................... ............. ........................... ..........
Total Recurrent Costs                           3000                0                 0              440          3440
111. PPF Refinancing                              1310                                                 190          1500
Total BASE LIVE COSTS                            13237             1006              3455             1792         19490
Physical Contingencies                            385               30               117               48           580
Price Contingencies                              1477              126               415              192          2210
.............. .................  ....................... ................. ......................
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                              15099             1162              3987             2032         22280
.um.u:.inc=   t=u..Umu.u=S=   *.===u=====  :u.c:s.us  :gzas:.ruza



-42-
BOLIVIA                   Annex 4
Public Sector Financial Management Operation II
Credit Disbursement Schedule
IDA Fiscal Year      Quarterly       Cumulative  Disbursement
and Quarter Ending  Disbursement  (USS 000')  (%of total)
Schedule
(US$ 000')
FY92
September 30, 1991           750          750             7
December 31, 1991            750         1500            14
March 31, 1992               700         2200            20
June 30, 1992                700         2900            26
FY93
September 30, 1992           700         3600            32
December 31, 1992            700         4300            38
March 31, 1993               700         5000            44
June 30, 1993                600         5600            50
FY94
September 30, 1993           600         6200            55
December 31, 1993            500         6700            59
March 31, 1994               500         7200            64
June 30, 1994                450         7650            68
FY95
September 30, 1994           450         8100            72
December 31, 1994            450         8550            76
March 31, 1995               450         9000            80
June 30, 1995                400         9400            83
FY96
September 30, 1995           380         9780            86
December 31, 1995            300        10080            89
March 31, 1996               300        10380            92
June 30, 1996                300        10680            95
FY97
September 30, 1996           300        10980            98
December 31, 1996            300        11280           100



-43-
Annex 5
Consultants Reauirements
A. MINrSTRY oF FINANCE
1.          Directing and supervising the Project in areas for which the
Ninistry of Finance is responsible, and harmonizing and revising all
regulations already prepared or to be prepared.
1.1         Directing and supervising the action to be taken in the Ministry
of Finance with respect to Budget, Funds Flow and Official Credit,
Accounting and Data Processing.
1.2         Coordinating activities in the Ministry of Finance with the
manager of the ILACO Project and ministry officials.
1.3         Coordinating the work of non-Bolivian and Bolivian ILACO personnel
and counterpart staff.
1.4         Revising and examining all rules, instructions, procedures,
instructional material, etc. prepared by the international or
Bolivian consultants, before submitting them for the Ministry's
consideration.
1.5         Preparing work programs and schedules, supervising their
implementation, and proposing any necessary changes to the ILACO
manager.
Throughout the period o; the operations in the Ministry of Finance, an
international consultant will be permanently assigned to be responsible for
overall supervision and coordination of the necessary activities and, as a
basic function, to analyze the rules (both legal and technical, as contained
in manuals and in instructions) that have already been issued and are to be
issued with regard to Budgets, Accounting, Funds Flow and Official Credit, in
order to harmonize them and maintain vertical integration within each system
and horizontal integration among all the administrative systems. For two
mrnthe of the first year, it is planned to appoint another consultant to
participate in the revision and harmonization of the rules governing
nonfinancial administrative systems, Operations Planning, Administrative
organization, Personnel Management and the Management of Goods and Services.
2.          Preparation and issuance of basic rules and regulations for the
following systems:
2.1         operations Planning
2.1.1  Analysis of operations Planning methods, and adaptation and design
of these for application to investment operations (for large-scale
or complex projects and simple projects), operations (the
generation of current goods and services), and for the financing
and regulation of economic and social actLvities.



Annex 5
-44-                       Page 2 of 30
(Arrangements will be made to appoint an international consultant
to each of these areas, with Bolivian consultants to provide
support.)
2.1.2 Preparation and issuance of the technical rules and basic
regulations for operations planning, in line with the criteria and
design developed in accordance with (2.1.1) above.
(Performed jointly by international and Bolivian consultants.)
2.1.3 Discussion and adjustment of the rules and basic regulations to
match needs. Harmonization with the budgetary methods adopted,
and definition of the mechanisms integrating these regulations
with the process of formulating government budgets.
(The first part of this task will be performed jointly, and it
will then be continued by the Bolivian consultants.)
2.1.4 Preparation of the technical rules and basic regulations of
operations Planning.
2.1.5 Discussion and adjustment of the rules and basi. regulations.
2.2         Administrative organization
2.2.1 Design of a register of nonfinancial public institutions at
national, departmental or regional and municipal levels.
2.2.2 Definition of the functions of the Subsecretariat for operations
Planning, for the purpose of compiling and analyzing data and
recommendations on the elimination, rescaling and merging of
institutions.
2.2.3 Identification of analytical methodologies for eliminating the
duplication of functions within a single institution and among
different institutions.
2.2.4 Identification of analytical methodolcgies for simplifying the
organization of institutions.
2.2.5 Definition of the aspects of the interdependence between
Operations Planning and Administrative Organization and Functions.
2.2.6 Preparation of the Basic Regulations for Administrative
Organization.
The international consultant will be a specialist in Administrative,
Organization and will be responsible for the activities specified in (2.2.2)
through (2.2.6) above.
The Bolivian consultants will be responsible for the activity specified
in (2.2.1) above, and will participate in the others by providing support for
th- international consultant.



-45-                     Annex 5
Page 3 of 30
2.3         Personnel Management
2.3.1  Analysic of the Administrative Career Law (Ley de Carrera
AdmInistrativa), the Personnel Management Law (Ley de
AdmInistraci6n de Personal), and other existing legislation.
2.3.2 Study of options and definitions with .egard to the following items,
among others:
-     the institutional range of application of the rules and
basic regulations;
-     the types and categories of personnel whose relationship to
the State will be governed by the rules and regulations;
-     requirements with respect to seniority, training, etc.
necessary for obtaining employment stability;
-     mechanisms for personnel selection, hiring, promotions,
penalties and dismissal;
-     social security benefits, annual leave, special categories
of leave, etc.;
-     duties and responsibilities of the State and of government
employees.
2.3.3 Preparation and discussion of draft rules and basic regulations.
The international consultant, who will be a specialist in human resource
management, will participate in all activities. The Bolivian consult.ants will
participate in identifying existing legislation (see 2.3.1 above), gathering
data and establishing classifications for existing personnel, social security
benefits, systems governing special vacancies (for military personnel, law
enforcement officers, teachers, etc.), and preparing all necessary information
for performing the activities defined in (2.3.2) above.
2.4         The Management of Goods and Services
2.4.1  Analysis of existing regulations governing the System for the
Management of Goods and Services.
2.4.2  Analysis of contracts with buying agents (PAHO, Crown Agents) and
assessment of costs and benefits.
2.4.3  Preparation of basic rules to govern the following items:
-     classification of commonly used goods;
-     catalogs of goods and services;
-     classification of goods and services;
-     procurement, storage and distribution.



-46-                        Annex 5
Page 4 of 30
2.4.4 Preparation of regulations governing purchases, contracts and
bidding with respect to goods and services.
In all activities, the international consultant will be supported by the
Bolivian consultants.
2.5         Funds Flow and Official Credit
2.5.1 Preparation of rules to govern cash flow planning for
decentralized agencies and public enterprises.
2.5.2 Preparation of rules to govern monitoring, and recommendations
regarding the management of the institutions' cash flow programs.
2.5.3 Preparation of the Basic Regulations on Funds Flow Management.
2.5.4 Revision and adjustment of the Draft Regulations on the Management
of official Credit.
One of the international consultants will be a specialist in Funds
Management and will be responsible for the activities specified in (2.5.1) and
(2.5.2) above, in addition to performing the activity defined in (2.5.3)
j"intly with the other international consultant, who will be a specialist in
Official Credit and will also execute (2.5.4).
Two of the Bolivian consultants will provide support for the first of
these international consultants, and the two others will provide support for
the second.
3.          Implementation of the Operations Planning, Personnel Management
and Management of Goods and Services Systems
3.1         Dissemination of Basic Rules in All Public-Sector Organizations
3.1.1 Preparation of Bolivian personnel to be responsible for the mass
dissemination of the basic rules and regulations prepared by
ILACO, by means of courses, seminars and direct contact with
agencies.
(To be performed by the international consultants.)
3.1.2 Mass dissemination of the systems to all public-sector agencies.
This will involve providing courses and seminars, and resolving
queries regarding the interpretation and application of tha rules
and regulations.
(To be performed by the Bolivian consultants, initially with
support from the international consultants.)
3.2         Preparation of individual rules Oor each of the main agencies or
groups of similar agencies.
(To be performed by the agencies themaelves. The consultants will.
deal with their queries and assist in solving any problems, in
accordance with 3.1.2 and 3.3.3.)



-47-                       Annex 5
Page 5 of 30
3.3         Revision and harmonization of individual rules by the
Subsecretariat for the Government Budget.
3.3.1 Revision of the rules prepared by each agency. Harmonization of
these with the basic rules and regulations prepared in accordance
with (2) above.
3.3.2 Adjustment to affordable limits of those rules with budget cost
implications.
3.3.3  Advice on amendments, including those necessary for adapting to an
individual agency those rules prepared for a group of similar
agenries.
These activities will be performed by the international consultants.
4.          Implementation of the Administrative Organization System
4.1         Gradual Reorganization of the Central Government
4.1.1  Identification and analysis of any dt'plication or overlapping of
activities and functions among the various institutions of the
Central Government and between these institutions and the
Municipalities.
4.1.2  Preparation of recommendations for redefining the number of
agencies and the powers of each.
4.1.3  Submission of proposais to the competent authorities, and
discussion of these proposals in the framework of ;he basic rules
and the regulations governing Administrative Organization.
4.1.4  Advice on the application of the resolutions adopted by the
authorities.
Basically, the activities specified in (4.1.1) through (4.1.3) will be
performed by the international consultants, with support from the Bolivian
staff. The activities indicated in (4.1.4) will be performed by the Bolivian
consultants, supported by the international consultants.
4.2         Dissemination of the Basic Rules
4.2.1  Preparation of the Bolivian personnel responsible for the mass
dissemination of the rules prepared in accordance with (2.2)
above, through courses, seminars and training in the direct
provision of services for the agencies.
4.2.2  Dissemination to all agencies of the rules applicable to each, in
accordance with their individual characteristics and degrees of
autonomy with respect to decisions on their own internal
administrative organization.



-48-                      Annex 5
Page 6 of 30
The activities specified in (4.2.1) above will be performed by the
international personnel, while (4.2.2) will be implemented by the Bolivian
consultants, initially supported by the international consultants.
4.3         Adjustments in the internal organization of each agency.  Issuance
of individual rules, and revision of these by the Subsecretariat
for Official Credit.
4.3.1 Issuance of special rules by each agency or group of similar
agencies.
4.3.2 Preparation of personnel from the Subsecretariat for the
Government Budget, to enable them to analyze the rules. Joint
analysis with this personnel of the first ,ases to be submitted.
Responses to queries on problems of interpretation and
harmonization with the general regulations.
4.3.3 Revision and adjustment of all special rules prepared by the
agencies.
4.3.4 Adjustments to the internal organization of each agency, in line
with the epecial rules as approved.
The activities identified in (4.3.1) and (4.3.4) above will be performed
by the agencies themselves, supported by project personnel.
The basic responsibility for (4.3.2) will lie with the international
consultants, and the Bolivian personnel will initially participate as
assistants (thus gaining advanced training) and then cooperate in analyzing
and responding to individual cases.
The activities specified in (4.3.3) above will be performed by the
Subsecretariat for the Government Budget, with advice from the Bolivian
consultants and initially supported by the international consultants.
5.          Development of the Budget System
5.1         Integration of the rules governing the systems identified in
(2.1), (2.2), (2.3) and (2.4) into the Budgetary Planning Method
(already being applied).
5.1.1 For the purpose of integrating Operations Planning:
-     analysis of the basic rules proposed for the Operations
Planning system, together with the technical principles
underlyinq them, in order to activate the mechanisms for
integrating them into the Budgetary Planning Method:
-     adaptation of the processes and methods developed in the
first phase, ti ensure that formulation and evaluation of
budgets incorporate Operations Planning techniques;



-49-                     Annex 5
Page 7 of 30
-     development of mechanisms for integrating and clearly
defining the scope of the formulation, monitoring and
evaluation processes of each of the subsystems, in order to
avoid duplication and make the management of these
subsystems more efficient.
The process of integrating Operations Planning will be initiated with
the support of an international consultant, who will be directly responsible
for the first of the items listed above.
The remaining items will be shared with the Bolivian consultants, who
will be responsible for adjusting the integration mechanisms and providing
direct advice on their application by the agencies.
5.1.2 For the purpose of integrating Administrative Organization:
-     definition of mechanisms and procedures for applying ,:he
Budgetary Planning Method to the identification of
duplicated functions and activities within a single
institution and among a number of institutions;
-     utilization of the Basic Regulations on Administrative
Organization, together with the progress made in
restructuring the Central Government and adjusting the
internal organization of each agency, in order to redefine
the units responsible for the execution of each of the
budget program categories;
-     -application of adjustments to the allocation of inputs and
the planned results of each activity, in accordance with the
redefinition of activities and functions.
The above activities will be performed by the Bolivian consultants. The
international consultant will be responsible for solving any specific problems
or questions of interpretation.
5.1.3 For the purpose of integrating the rules governing Personnel
Management:
-     analysis of the budgetary impact of projects for regulating
personnel management; preparation of proposals for
adjustments, or adaptation of these to match the resources
available for financing them;
-     assessment of the flexibility required by the Budgetary
Method to enable personnel to be reassigned to other
programs and activities, and of the compatibility of these
measures with the rules governing stability of employment;
-     definition of the appropriate budget treatment for social
categories and benefits incorporated into the new personnel
management system and for the use of the new definitions for



-50-                       Annex 5
Page 8 of 30
preparing human resource balances and assigning suitable
personnel to the various budgetary activities.
Basically, the international consultant will participate in the
preparation of proposala for the adjustment of the rules as approved or the
gradual application of such rules, in line with available resources. The
remaining tasks will be the primary responsibility of the Bolivian
consultants.
5.1.4 For the purpose of integrating the rules governing the Management
of Goods and Services:
-     analysis of the criteria for identifying and classifying
goods and services and making these compatible with current
budgetary categories and with the notification requirements
applied to the procurement and utilization of inputs for
planned activities;
-     analysis of the proposed procedures for the procurement,
storage and distribution of goods and services, and their
impact on budgetary processes;
-     harmonization of the budgetary rules and procedures with the
rules established in the Regulations Governing Purchases,
Contracts and Bidding with Respect to Goods and Services.
The international consultant will be responsible for the first two
items, and will review the activities performed under the final item. The
Bolivian consultants will provide assistance for the first two items, and will
bear the main responsibility for the final item.
5.2         Transfer of responsibility for budget formulation from programmers
in the Subsecretariat for the Budget to the institutions
themselves.
5.2.1  Analysis of the problems that have hitherto prevented the transfer
of responsibility for budget formulation to each organization.
5.2.2  Preparation of proposals for solving problems common to various
agencies. Discussion of same, and dissemination of the results
through seminars and working groups arranged for the purpose.
Advice on the application of the solutions.
5.2.3  Focus on the specific problems affecting certain agencies and so
far making it impossible for them to prepare their own budgets.
Proposals for solutions. Discussion of these proposals and
application of agreements reached.
These actions will require the joint efforts of the international and
Bolivian consultants. The international consultant should, preferably,
analyze the problems raised and make proposals for solving them. The Bolivian



-51-                       Annex 5
Page 9 of 30
consultants will basically be responsible for disseminating and applving these
solutions.
5.3         Gradual improvement in the quality of budget preparation
procedures.
5.3.1  Analysis of weaknesses in the process of preparing government
budgets.
5.3.2  Internal discussion with those responsible for critical areas in
the Subsecretariat for the Budget. Proposals for adjustments and
corrections. Dissemination and implementation of the proposals
approved.
5.3.3  Seminars to evaluate the progress made in budget formulation.
Analysis of the difficulties and drawbacks facing full application
of the techniques used. Discussions with the organizations on
problems and proposals to solve them. Support for the
introduction of these solutions.
5.3.4 Continuation of the training and instruction effort, given the
turnover of personnel in government organizations.
The actions envisaged under this heading will be designed to solve the
problems encountered, following a sequence reflecting their size and scope.
For example, the focus in the first year will be on the link between budgets
and the cost systems currently used in the enterprises, so that the concepts
of Productive Management Center (budget) and Cost Centers (accounts) can be
assimilated, thus making budget execution the basis for cost accounting.
Attention can then be given to the problems of the regional operating
plans of the corporations; up to now these have not guided the preparation of
the relevant budgets, which are prepared subsequently as a joint exercise;
execution monitoring is based on these budgets and not on the legally approved
figures. The sequence could be continued until all the most significant
issues have beAn dealt with.
The Subsecretariat for the Government Budget will be responsible for
detecting and circulating information about current problems. The
international consultants will analyze these problems and propose solutions.
The Bolivian consultants will participate in studying and discussing the
proposals and will disseminate and apply them in conjunction with the
Subsecretariat's analysts. At the end of the period, the Subsecretariat will
take over responsibility for maintaining and continuously enhancing the budget
process.
5.4         Strengthening the macroeconomic planning of public finance.
5.4.1  In-service training and instruction of professionals in the
Directorate for Budget Policy in the use of planning techniques
and the compilation and use of financial statistics.



-52-                      Annex 5
Page 10 of 30
5.4.2 Direct participation in the process by providing support for the
preparation of the macrofinancial planning that will guide the
preparation of the 1992 and 1993 budgets.
5.4.3 Analysis and recommendations regarding the structure and functions
of the Directorate for Budget Policy and its relationships with
the other macrofinancial planning agencies (UDAPE, Central Bank)
in order to institutionalize the system.
Task (5.4.1) will essentially be the responsibility of the
international consultant; the other activities will be performed in
conjunction with the Bolivian experts.
5.5         Review, adjustment and introduction of the budget evaluation
systems.
5.5.1 Review of the manuals, instructions and procedures applied during
the first phase of the project, and preparation of proposals to
modify them. Discussion of these proposals until they are
approved.
5.5.2  Training of personnel in the Subsecretariat for the Government
Budget and the executing agencies.
5.5.3 Direct participation in the introduction of evaluation systems in
the Subsecretariat for the Government Budget and the principal
agencies.
5.5.4 Responses to queries and solution of problems deriving from the
introduction of these systems in the remaining agencies.
Tasks (5.5.1) and (5.5.2) will essentially be the responsibility of the
international consultant, who will provide the support for execution of the
remaining activities, to be performed by the Bolivian consultants.
It is planned that, by the time of the evaluation work and reports at
the close of FY92, the system will be fully institutionalized and operating in
all the principal public-sector agencies.
5.6         Design and introduction of the software for budget formulation and
evaluation.
5.6.1 Review of existing budget preparation programs, as regards both
data gathering and formulation of institutional budgets, and the
aggregated and consolidated budgets for groups of agsncies and the
public sector as a whole.
5.6.2  Design of new programs using data bases to make the pro'ess of
budget preparation quicker and more flexible.
5.6.3 Testing and introduction of the new software both within
individual institutions and at aggregate level.



-53-                      Annex 5
Page 11 of 30
5.6.4 Design, testing and introduction of computer programs to evaluate
the physical and financial execution of budgets.
5.6.5 Maintenance and adjustment of the systems.
The international consultants will support the first phase of the
process by defining the basic guidelines for the work so as to conform to the
features of the budgets of each institutional group, and to ensure that the
output data completely meet the needs of the accounting system. The Bolivlan
consultants will be responsible for the remainder of the work.
6.          Introduction of the Funds Flow and Official Credit System
6.1   Design and introduction of systems and procedures to govern the
operations of the Directorate of Official Credit of the Treasury, and
establishment of the linkages between these and the functions in this
area that the regulations prescribe for the Ces 'ral Bank of Bolivia, the
Ministry of Planning and Coordination and the government agencies in
receipt of such financing.
6.1.1 Design of procedures for contracts, disbursements, records,
payments for services and monitoring of official credit.
6.1.2 Design of procedures for contracts, disbursements, records,
payments and monitoring of internal loans obtained by the Central
Government and onlent to decentralized agencies and public
enterprises.
6.1.3 Definition of the participation of public agencies using financing
from the Directorate for Official Credit, the Treasury, the
Ministry of Planning, the Ministry of External Relations and the
Central Bank of Bolivia, in accordance with the procedures to be
defined.
6.1.4 Preparation of the bases of a trust agreement with the Central
Bank that precisely defines its obligations as agent and those of
the Ministry of Finance as principal in the administration of
funds and the recording and filing of information on official
credit transactions.
6.1.5 Training of the ILACO and Minietry of Finance personnel that will
oper. -e the system and be responsible for disseminating the rules,
meth. ologies and procedures to be designed.
6.1.6 Advice on the introduction of the rules, methodologies and
procedures.
Of the two international consultants, one will concentrate exclusively
on task (6.1.4), which will be performed at the same time as (6.1.1), (6.1.2)
mnd (6.1.3). The latter will be executed by the other consultant, who will
also carry out taeks (6.1.4), (6.1.5) and (6.1.6). The international
consultants will be assigned as follows:



-54-
Annex 5
Page 12 of 30
In 1991, two consultants will assist the international consultant
in task (6.1.1), and two others will assist with (6.1.2).
In 1992, two international consultants will participate in
training, dissemination and provision of advice on the application
of regulations and procedures for internal loans.
In 1993, one Bolivian consultant will remain for four months to
advise on implementation in general.
6.2         Introduction of the principle of a "single cash account," through
the centralization of all Treasury funds, so that the cur',ent
accounts for the exclusive use of the central government agencies
that collect revenue will be eliminated.
6.2.1  Inventory of all the current accounts in the Treasury and central
government agencies.
6.2.2  Elimination of all bank accounts in which no transactions have
occurred for a considerable time, and analysis and submission of
justifications for those that should be retained.
6.2.3  Elimination of the bank accounts into which are paid the "own
funds" of central government organizations, and centralization of
revenue in a Treasury account.
6.2.4  Preparation of draft "Single Cash Account Regulations," in which
the accounts of government agencies arb regarded as "subaccounts"
of the single Treasury account, and definition of the scope and
limits of the powers of the Undersecretary of the Treasury with
respect to the use of the funds in this account.
6.2.5  Negotiation with the State Bank with a view to creating the
machinery for establishing, operating, making entries in and
providing information on the single account and the subaccounts.
6.2.6  Preparation of procedures for operating the single account.
6.2.7  Training of staff in the Treasury and central government agencies
in the rules and procedures to be _dopted.
6.2.8  Advice regarding the introduction of these rules and procedures.
The international consultant will be responsible for executing task
(6.2.4) and will participate, together with the Bolivian consultants, in
implementing (6.2.6), (6.2.7) and (6.2.8).
The remaining activities, viz. (6.2.1), (6.2.2), (6.2.3) and (6.2.5),
will be carried out by the Bolivian consultants.
6.3         The use of the banking eetwork for making payments, and the
elimination of the present Subtreasuries.



-55-                     Annex 5
Page 13 of 30
6.3.1 Detailed survey of the tasks and functions of the Subtreasuries.
6.3.2 Analysis of the ability of the State Bank and private bank
networks to operate in localities currently served by
Subtreasuries.
6.3.3 Preparation of procedures for payment of wages and salaries,
transfers, suppliers, contractors, revolving funds, etc. via the
banking network.
6.3.4 Preparation of the Treasury's verification procedures, to be
applied to payments by the banking network.
6.3.5 Preparation of the recording procedures to be operated by the
Treasury and the Integrated Financial Data System of the
Government Comptroller's Office.
6.3.6 Preparation of the computer programs required for introducing
payment, accounting entry and audit procedures.
6.3.7 Training for the staff involved in the procedures to be adopted.
6.3.8  Advice on the introduction of the procedures.
Tasks (6.3.1) and (6.3.2) will be performed by the Bolivian consultants.
Subsequently, the international consultant will join them for four months to
execute (6.3.3), (6.3.4) and (6.3.5). Task (6.3.6) will be handled by two
Bolivian consultants specializing in data programming, and once program
preparation has reached an advanced stage (task 6.3.6), the programs will be
fine-tuned through the participation of the international consultant, who will
participate in (6.3.7) and (6.3.8).
6.4   Dissemination of the basic Funds Flow and Official Credit rules to all
decentralized and autonomous State agencies.
6.4.1 Drafting of Guides for the preparation of specific and basic rules
on Funds Flow and Official Credit for decentralized and autonomous
State agencies.
6.4.2 Preparation of bibliographical and instructional material for
training staff in the Treasury and the decentralized agencies.
6.4.3 Training of Treasury staff so that they can instruct those
preparing the rules in the decentralized agencies and public
enterprises.
6.4.4 Training of staff from the 238 decentralized agencies in the basic
rules and in the Guide to drafting specific rules.
The international consultant who prepared the draft basic rules on
Funds Flow and Official Credit (2.5) must perform (6.4.1), (6.4.2) and
(6.4.3).



-56-                      Annex 5
Page 14 of 30
Two Bolivian consultante will provide the training referred to in
(6.4.4).
6.5.        Issuance by the autonomous agencies of their own individual rules
on funds flow, and review and harmonization of these with the
Troasury.
6.5.1 Advice during the preparation of the special rules on funds flow
in the decentralized and autonomous agencies.
6.5.2 Analysis of the draft rules prepared by these agencies so as to
harmonize them with the basic rules.
6.5.3 Advice on the application of the special rules.
The activities will be executed exclusively and simultaneously by six
8o01vlan consultants who will meet the needs of about 200 decentralized
agencies and public enterprises.
6.6.        Rationalization of the issuance and administration of fiscal
instruments.
6.6.1 Survey of all fiscal instruments sold by various State agencies
and study of the legality of these items, such as airport
surcharges, stamp taxes, etc.
6.6.2 Preparation of draft rules depriving illegal fiscal instruments of
any validity.
6.6.3 Preparation of rules for the issuance and administration of fiscal
instruments by the Ministry of Finance.
6.6.4  Preparation of procedures for the supervision, issuance,
safeguarding, distribution and sale of fiscal instrument.
6.6.5 Preparation of computer programs for proceseing data in the
system.
6.6.6 Training of the personnel to be responasble for applying the
rules, procedures and computer programs.
6.6.7 Advice on the introduction of the rules and procedures.
The international consultant will be responsible for (6.6.2) and
(6.6.3), will prepare the work plan to be executed by the Bolivian
consultants, and will participate in (6.6.4).
Your Bolivian consultants -- working for about five months each -- will
carry out the remaining tasks. Two of them will be responsible for (6.6.1)
*nd (6.6.4) -- in conjunction with the international consultant -- and
(6.6.5), in conjunctLon with the other two Bolivian consultants.



-57-                     Annex 5
Page 15 of 30
Activity (6.6.5) will be handled by a systems analyst and a programmer,
who will also participate in training the personnel that will be involved in
introducing the rules and procedures prepared in the Subsecretariat of the
Treasury and the agencies concerned.
7.          Integrated Accounting.
7.1         Review and introduction in all central government agencies of the
supporting records to complement the Integrated Accounting carried
out by the Comptroller's Office, and development of management
information for administering each of these agencies.
7.1.1 Completion of the design of the accounting manual for central
government organizations, incorporating asset account transactions
(funds and fixed assets).
7.1.2 Training of the staff responsible for operating the system in
central government organizations (27 agencies) and the personnel
from SAFCO and the Controller's Office who will advise these
organizations.
7.1.3 Analysis of the capacity and characteristics of the automatic data
processing teams in each organization.
7.1.4 Advice on introduction of the accounting manual and the production
of data outputs for integration into the central government
accounting system operated by the Comptroller's Office.
The international consultant will be a specialist in public accounting
and will be responsible for completing the drafting of the integrated
accounting manual for central government agencies.
This consultant will also prepare the instructional material and will
train personnel from SAFCO and the Comptroller's Office, as well as providing
initial training for the staff who will operate the system.
This consultant will explain the guidelines for preparing implementation
programs in each agency, will supervise their execution and will advise on
critical issues as they arise, so that specific solutions can be found for
each agency through the application of common criteria by Bolivian personnel;
the international consultant will also modify the manual in light of
experience of its use.                                 I
The Bolivian consultants will train the staff of the agencies who will
operate the system and will advise on its introduction in the 27
organizations, while also supervising the timely and reliable production of
data outputs for incorporation into the system operated by the Comptroller's
Office.
7.2         Dissemination and development of the Integrated Accounting System
in the decentralized institutions and public-sector enterprises.



-58-                       Annex 5
Page 16 of 30
7.2.1  Modification of the design of the accounting manual for nonprofit
decentralized institutions.
7.2.2 Training of staff members of SAFCO and the Controller's Office to
assist the decentralized institutions with introduction of the
Accounting Manual, and public enterprises with introduction of the
Guide for Preparation of the Accounting System Manual for Public
Enterprises.
7.2.3 Training of staff members in the decentralized institutions to
operate the Integrated Account!ng System in each institution, and
staff members in the public enterprises to prepare or supervise
the design of the Integrated Accounting System Manual.
7.2.4 Advice to the decentralized institutions on adaptation and
introduction of the Accounting Manual.
7.2.5 Advice to public enterprises on preparing Accounting Manuals, and
on preparing terms of reference whenever consultants are to be
hired to design the accounting system.
7.2.6 Advice to the Comptroller's Office on revising the Manuals
prepared for public enterprises.
7.2.7 Advice to the enterprises on the introduction of the Manuals.
The international consultants will be respons'ble for the activities
described in (7.2.1), (7.2.2), (7.2.4) and (7.2.5). They will carry out
activities (7.2.6) and (7.2.7) jointly with the Bolivian personnel. They will
base their activities on the Accounting Manual for Decentralized Institutions
(which will apply to 58 institutions), the accounting systems designed for tbe
15 institutions selected in (7.3.2) and (7.3.3) [sic] (which will apply to 101
similar institutions), and the Guide for Preparation of Accounting Manuals for
Public Enterprises (which will apply to 50 enterprises unable to afford the
cost of hiring consultants to design their systems).
The Bolivian personnel will be responsible for training the staff of the
223 decentralized institutions and public enterprises, where they will b
guided and supervised by the international consultant specializing in
decentralized entities, while they will work with the consultant in public
enterprises in performing activitiea (7.2.4), (7.2.6) and (7.2.7).
7.3         Establishment of special integrated budgeting, funds flow and
accounting systems in nonprofit pubLic agencies representative of
subgroups consisting of institutions with similar characteristics.
Preparation of a document containing a precise definition of the
basic characteristics of the integrated budgeting, funds flow and
accounting systems, for inclusion in the terms of reference for
consultants hired to design opecial systems for agencies
representative of subgroups consisting of similar institutions.



-59-                       Annex 5
Page 17 of 30
The international consultant will prepare the technical document on the
baoic characteristics of integrated financial management systems, for
inclusion in the terms of reference for future consultants.
The Bolivian personnel will help disseminate and explain the features of
this document to the decentralized organizations, and will assist in drawing
up technical terms of reference supplementary to those included in the
document.
7.4         At the ContLoller's Office, development of centralized financial
data bases for the entire public sector, so as to facilitate
analysis of such data and make available the infcrmation needed
for the preparation of fiscal statistics and the essential inputs
for the national accounts and for macroeconomic and budgetary
analysis, ensuring the gradual elimination of the nonaccounting
financial information presently used as a basis for decisionmaking
(Emergency Program, DIFAD, SISIN, etc.).
7.4.1  Amendment of the instructions for the preparation of accrual-basis
national accounts for the public sector and for the preparation of
cash-basis public finance statistics, to take account of changes
made to the line items and to data outputs from integrated
budgetary and asset accounting.
7.4.2  Revision and amendment of the design of the Nonfinancial Public-
Sector Data Base.
7.4.3  Design of data base.
7.4.4  Programming of data base.
7.4.5  Activation of data base.
7.4.6  Training in financial analysis for users.
7.4.7  Development of financial analysis module.
7.4.8  System documentation.
7.4.9  Data base operation and monitoring.
Two international consultants will be needed hero: one specializing in
public-sector financial information systems and macroeconomic and budgetary
analysis, and the other in computer systems design, with data base
specialization. Each consultant will handle the activities in his own field,
but the two will also collaborate in certain areas. The financial information
systems consultant will be individually responsible for activities (7.4.1) and
(7.4.6). The computer systems consultant will be individually responsible for
activities (7.4.4), (7.4.7) and (7.4.8), and the other activities will be
performed jointly. The Bolivian consultants will participate in activities
(7.4.3), (7.4.4), (7.4.7), (7.4.8) and (7.4.9).



-60-                       Annex 5
Page 18 of 30
8.    Preparation of special rules for agencies that are less structurally
complex; the basic rules will take account of groups of instLtutions sharing
similar characteriatice.
8.1.1  Selection and claseification of agencies for whlch special rules
will be drawn up, such as: municipalities, asesitance centers,
agricultural extension centers, education centers, airports,
sports complexes, etc.
8.1.2  Formulation of budgetary, accounting and funds flow rules for each
group with similar characteristics.
8.1.3  Formulation of budgetary, accounting and funds flow procedures for
each group with similar characteristics.
8.1.4  Training of instructors and preparation of instructional material
for training personnel assigned to apply the new rules and
procedures.
8.1.5  Staff training.
8.1.6  Advice on formulation of the special rules.
SelectLon of the international consultants will take &ccount of the new
inetitutional classification, which will create separate groups of
institutions sharing similar organizational and operational characteristics,
such as municipalities, education and agricultural extension centers, and
inetitutions managing semiautonomous resources (airports, sports centers,
etc.). The international consultants hired will be specialists in financial
management systems (budgeting, accounting and funds flow).
Given the large number of agencies included in this activlty, the
international consultants will be responsible, once the classification process
is completed (8.1.1), for activities (8.1.2), (8.1.3) and (8.1.4) for each
group.
The Bolivian consultants will be responsible for activities (8.1.5) and
(8.1.6).



-61-                        Annex 5
Page 19 of 30
B|.   OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER GENERAL
X1.   nlaternational Senior Consultant on Governmental Control:   Duties and
Responsibilities
For purposes of implementation of the Governmental Control compo.ent of
Law 1178 and in accordance with the Management and Governmental Control
Integrated System --SAFCO-- the senior international consultant shall be
responsible before the General Comptroller of the Republic and the ILACO
project Director, including the supervisor of the Governmental Control
component, of the following tasks:
1.1   Revision, dissemination, and continuous adjustment -- based on the
results of their application -- of norms, instructions, and
guidelines for the following: Internal Control and Governmental
Auditing; analysis procedures for administration, information, and
internal control systems such as the execution of audits carried out
by CGR; audits carried out by the Internal Auditing Units of the
public sector and for them to carry out external audits of the
institutions for which they are responsible; contracting of external
auditing firms or specialized consultants for audits and management
procedures of these contracts by the contracting agencies;
evaluation of internal and external audit reports and other
activities related to governmental control of the institution.
1.2   Advice on the compatibility of D.S. 22165 with Law 1178 and direct
responsibility for implementation of Organization, System Analysis
operations, Auditing, Administration and Internal Control systems of
CGR.
1.3   Advice on implementation of staff performance evaluation and career
development at CGR and in the Internal Auditing Units of the public
sector.
1.4   Design  and  implementation  of  information  systems  related  to
programming, execution, and quality control of analyses and audits,
follow up of recommendations, operational costs, and advice with
respect to additional tests, counseling on legal and administrative
processes, training and professional performance.
1.5   Development of the Technical Unit to carry out programming and
follow up of operations, quality control and audit efficiency, and
adjustment to technical standards.
1.6   Development of present auditing units in four management offices
with four public accountants with international experience as
advisers, who will train senior supervisors along with the following
auditing managers:
-     Public Enterprises and Utilities
-     Social Services and Local Governments
-     Rest of Central Government
-     Support to Departmental Audits



-62-                         Annex 5
Page 20 of 30
1.7   Development of the Management Office for Administrative System
Analysis, Information, and Internal Control.
1.8   Contracting, under the direction of the General Controller of the
Republic, of special audits on large investments and major entities
and follow up on compliance of contracts with support from the
Auditing Management Offices and other CGR Units.
The consultant shall work exclusively on the ILACO project.
Requirementst
Education and Skills:
Public Accounting Degree; training and experience in financial
administration desirable.
Experience:
Minimum 10 years experience in External Auditing Management, five of
which in an international firm.
Languages:
Spanish; knowledge of English desirable.



-63-                        Annex 5
Page 21 of 30
2.    International  Senior Consultant on Governmental  Control Development:
Duties and Responsibilities
The Consultant will work under the direction of the Assistant Controller
for Operations and jointly will be responsible before the General
Controller of the Republic for the following:
2.1   Preparation and implementation of the guidelines on organization,
operation, and execution of auditing by CGR.
2.2   Preparation of  the guidelines  for the  public  sector  internal
auditing units and for them to carry out external auditing of the
institutions for which they are responsible.
2.3   Dissemination  of  the  basic  norms  for  internal  control  and
governmental auditing and the rules and guidelines for internal and
external audits.
2.4   Dissemination  and monitoring  of the application  of  rules  and
regulations for contracting external auditing firms or specialized
consultants for audits and preparation of the guidelines on
management of these contracts by the public sector contracting
agencies.
2.5   Preparation of terms of reference and supervision of the contracted
consulting firm for the development and implementation of the basic
rules and regulations, guidelines, and organization and internal
management manuals for CGR in accordance with the basic guidelines
issued by the Ministry of Finance.
2.6   Preparation of terms of reference and provision of advisory services
on contracting of international and local consulting firms and
senior staff to comply with PPFI and II.
2.7   Preparation of terms of reference for other consultants and senior
staff to be contracted when project financing becomes disburseable.
2.8   Preparation,  jointly with the contracted Public Accountants and
Auditing Managers, of the policies and contracts for contracting
auditing services, and provide assistance to the auditing management
offices in the supervision of such contracts.
2.9   Evaluation of the proposals for the auditing operations program
submitted by the Auditing Management Offices, monitoring compliance,
and evaluation of the proposed adjustments.
2.10  Preparation of criteria for the evaluation of Project results and,
as much as possible, definition of measurable indicators of the
results.
2.11  Preparation of biannual progress reports drafts on the Project's B-1
and B-2 components.
Execution of .he above tasks should serve as the basis for the future
establishment and development of the Programming and Technical Office.



-64-
Annex 5
Page 22 of 30
Requirements:
Education and Skills:
Degree in Public Accounting with special emphasis on governmental
control standards and technical procedures.
Experience:
Minimum 10 years of experience in management and auditing operations
quality control, part of which should have been acquired in a state
or government auditing agency. Additional training and experience
in administrative analysis and public financial information systems
desirable.
Languages:
Spanish; knowledge of English desirable.



-65-
Annex 5
Page 23 of 30
3.    Public Accountant with Experience in External Auditingt   Duties and
Responsibilities
Under the direction of the Assistant Controller for Operations, the Public
Accountant shall be responsible for:
3.1   Developing and supporting the operations of the following auditing
management offices:
Public enterprises and Utilities
Social Services and Local Governments
-     Support to Regional Audits.
3.2   In-house  training  in  each  of  the  entities,  of  nine  Senior
Supervisors jointly with the Senior Auditing Managers.
3.3   Support the work of the Management Offices through programming,
supervision, and quality control of the field work of the
corresponding audits.
Requirements:
Education and Skills:
Public Accounting degree; additional training in system analysis
desirable.
Experience:
Three years minimum experience at the level of External Auditing
Manager and some experience in government administration and
auditing.
Age:
Not older than 35 years of age.



-66-
Annex 5
Page 24 of 30
4.    Senior Consultant with International Experience in Legal Affairss  Duties
and Responsibilities
Under the direction of the General Controller of the Republic, the
Consultant shall advise and assist in the development of legal services,
relations with other institutions and communications of the General
Controllership of the Republic, complying with the following terms of
reference:
4.1   Lead or assist and participate in the preparation of legal standards
derived from Law 1178/90 for which the Controllership is responsible
for issuing and disseminating.
4.2   Assist in the development of technical regulations to ensure their
compatibility with the present legal framework.
4.3   Design and initiate the establishment of the Controllership's Legal
Office which will initially cover the following aspects, ensuring
its independence from the Coactive Assistant Controllership:
4.3.1 Advice the Programming and Technical Office on legal matters
as requested and provide assistance in the dissemination of
Law 1178/90 and on standards and regulations for which the
Controllership is responsible.
4.3.2 Assist the Assistant Controller for Operations on the legal
aspects derivud from the audit exercise and other legal work
required.
4.3.3 Follow up and participate in appeals of coactive legal suits
and extraordinary presentations.
4.3.4 Analyze or prepare draft responses to information requests and
other consultations.
4.3.5 Prepare the programming and control procedures of this service
to provide legal assistance to the Controllership.
.4.4   Participate as senior legal adviser in the Technical Committee
presided by the Assistant Controller for operations.
4.5   Advise  and assist the General Controller with  respect to the
following activities:
4.5.1 All legal matters and especially relatLons with the
Legislative and Judicial Branches.
4.5.2 Relations with other governmental agencies, with other
national entities, and with international institutions.
4.5.3 Prepare a public information strategy on Governmental Control
and its results.
4.5.4 Prepare the development of the above items and other support
services for the General Controller.



-67-
Annex 5
Page 25 of 30
4.5.5 Other duties assigned by the General Controller.
Requirements:
Education and Skills:
Law degree with specialization in Administrative Law.
Experience:
A minimum of 10 years of experience in the legal field.



-68-
Annex 5
Page 26 of 30
5.    International Senior Consultant for Regulation of Administrative Laws
Duties and Responsibilities
The consultant will work under the direction of the CGR General Counsel
and along with him will be responsible before the General Controller of
the Republic for the following:
5.1   Review and discuss with local  legal consultants the following
projects:
a)    Regulations on responsibility for public service, including
the ethical aspects.
b)    Draft Bill on Organization and Procedures of the Fiscal
Coactive Tribunal.
5.2   Participate in seminars to identify p:oblems and adjust the above
projects.
5.3   Participate  in  explaining  the  projects  to  the  corresponding
authorities.
5.4   Prepare terms of reference for the contracting of International and
Local Consultants and senior professionals for the execution of the
B-3 component of the ILACO Matrix Project.
5.5   Develop criteria to evaluate and measure project results.
Requirements:
Education and Skills:
Law degree and specialization in Administrative Law; graduate
training in Financial Administration or Public Administration very
desirable.
Experience:
Ten years minimum experience in Administrative Law and Management.
Experience in defendant/prosecution litigation of public servants
and suits between the government and individuals desirable.
Language:
Spanish.



-69-                         Annox 5
Pago 27 of 30
6.    Senior Professional with International Experienes in Training Developents
Duties and Responsibilities
Under the direction of the General Controller of the Republic, the Senior
Professional with International Experience in Training Development will
have the following duties and responsibilitiess
6.1   Lead the reformulation and adjustment of the courses of the Basic
Training Program in Administration and Control Systems established
by Law 1178.
6.2   Lead the execution of the Basic Training Program.
6.3  Lead  the  development  of  the  Training  Center of  the General
Controllership of the Republic in the academic and administrative
aspects.
6.4   Select participants to courses and evaluate them.
6.5   Participate in teaching courses whenever necessary.
Requirements:
Education and Skills:
College degree, preferably in Education, with training or experience
in Financial Management.
Experience:
Minimum of five years experience in Administration, preferably in
higher learning education centers.
Language:
Spanish; knowledge of English desirable.



70                          Annex 5
Page 28 of 30
7.    Senior International Consultant in Training Development:   Duties and
Responsibilties
The consultant will be under the direction of the Director of the Training
Center of the General Contrallorship of the Republic "CENCAP", and along
with him will be responsible before the General Controller of the Republic
of the development cf the training program in Governmental Administration
and Control.   He will be specifically responsible for the followlng
duties:
7.1   Prepare and propose a detailed training progrem in accordance with
the objectives and activities of the ILACO project.
7.2   Participate in the selection of instructors and participants to the
training courses from CGR and Central Administration as well as
other institutions.
7.3   Supervise the annual execution of the Training Program.
7.4   Prepare the terms of reference for international consultants for the
review and adjustment of the courses in the train,ng program and
supervise their compliance.
7.5   Prepare criteria for the evaluation of training results and as much
as possible, define measurable indicators of the results.
7.6   Supervise the design of the Master's program in Public Accounting
and Management.
7.7   Participate, while local instructors are in training, in teaching
the Governmental Auditing Course and the Introduction to Law 1178
Course.
7.8   Advise the Director of the Training Center on aspects related to
administration of the Center.
Requirements:
Education and Skills:
College degree in Public Accounting with emphasis on financial
administration.
Experience:
Minimum 10 years of experience as higher education instructor and
five years in administration and management of training programs for
public service employees.
Language:
Spanish; knowledge of English desirable.



-71-
Annex 5
Page 29 of 30
8.    International Consultant in Financial Administration to Reformulate the
Programming   and  Financial   Administration   Course:         Duties   and
Responsibilities
8.1   Based  on  the  existing  material  for  the  current  Operations
Programming and Financial Administration Course ar.d any other useful
materials, the Consultant will reformulate and prepare, for the
Training Center of the General Controllership of the Republic, the
textbook for the new Programming and Financial Administration 11-A
Course,    formerly   V-A   "Operations   Programming,   Financial
Administration, and Management Information Systems."
8.2   The course will have a duration of 6 weeks (180 hours of classes),
and will be geared to CGR and other Public Administration financial
staff; its main thrust will be the conceptual theoretical framework
and the practical application of the following systems: operations
programming, internal organization, budget, collections and revenue,
treasury and public credit, and the internal control of these
systems established under Law 1178/90 being implemented by the
Ministry of Finance.
8.3   The Consultant will prepare the textbook on the basis of the
following chapters:  Public Finances; Public Sector Organization;
The Budget as a Management Instrument; Budgetary Principles,
Classifications, and Techniques; Programming Conditions; Basis for
Financial Programming; Budget Preparation; Coordination of Budget
Execution; Funds and Debt Administration; Programming and Financial
Administration Internal Controls; Budget Execution Evaluation.
8.4   Preparation of the textbook includes the development of teaching
materials, the corresponding teacher's manual, a manual on the
preparation of practical cases and their solution, and a manual for
preparation of tests, exams, or evaluations given to students.
8.5   In order to coordinate the new Course V-A with Courses V and III,
the Conbultant shall analyze and reformulate the instruction scheme
of these courses so as to make them compatible with Course II-A.
This analysis shall be geared toward:
a)    Achieving a practical understanding of the structure and
content, as well as the logic, of all the financial statements
and the notes accompanying the same, and training in its
multiple uses for analysis and management decision-making.
b)    The scope and  logic of the norms of generally accepted
accounting principles and their impact in the interpretation
of financial statements.
C)    The ioiportance of integrated governmental accounting as a
management tool for the implementation of a management
information system and training in its application.
d)    Defining  the  activities,  methods,  and  procedures  of  an
internal control system that provides the necessary support on
the reliability of financial statements and goals achieved.



-72-
Annex 5
Page 30 of 30
In Courus II the current financial information system with its
computerized accounting programs will be used as an example to
highlight the operational elements of the information systems.
8.5   During preparation of the textbook, teacher's aids and manuals, the
Consultant will be assisted by a national professional.
8.6   After review by the Academic Director, the Consultant responsible
for the implementation of the financial administration system., and
the International Supervisor of the Training Center, the final
textbook, aids, and manuals for the Course will be submitted to the
Training Center Director.
8.7   Based on the textbook, the Consultant will teach a testing course
that should include the training of three national instructors,
among which the future instructors of the course will be selected.
Likewise, he will supervise the teaching of a second course and will
thereafter make the final adjustment of all the materials.
8.8   The consultantship shall be for a period of six months and shall be
subject to the timetable of activities agreed by the CGR's Training
Center and the Consultant.
8.9   The textbook, teacher's aids and manuals prepared by the Consultant
shall be the property of the Training Center.
Requireoentrs
Education and Experience:
Degree in Public Accounting or Economics; specialist in Budget and
Governmental Accounting, with 10 years of experience in the Public
Sector.
Language:
Spanish.



-73-
ANNEX 6
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF THE MINISTRY OF FINANCE
I MINISTER OF FINANCE 
INTERNAL AUDITING                       PUBLIC RELATIONS
& PRESS
TECHNICAL COUNCIL
SUBSECRETARIAT OF       TREASURY         SUBSECRETARIAT        GENERAL
OPER. PROGRAMMING/     SUBSECRETARIAT      OF FIN. ADM.        ACCOUNTING
BUDGETING                  I       -~-         I              OFFICE
TREASURY            PERSONNEL-l
_   OPERATIONS                        ACCOUNTING
DIR. BUDG.                                LEGAL              STANDARDS
CENTRAL               PUBLIC CREDIT       COUNCIL
ADMINISTRATION                                               ACCOUNTING
GENERAL           PROCESSING
DIR. BUDG.            PROGRAMMING OF      SECRETAR.
DECENTRAL.            BUDGET EXECUTION                       ACCOUNTING
ADMINISTRA.                               OFICIAL            AUDIT
INTERNAL REVENUE    CUSTOMS
DIR. BUDGET                                                  INFORMATION
POLICY                CUSTOMS                                SYSTEMS
DIR. ORGAN.           IMPORT POLICY
STANDARDS &
PROCEDURES            TRADE COORDIN.
TAX POLICY
Total Staff - 630 (average salary US$ 195/month)



BOLIVIA                                                Annex 7
Public Financial Management Operation II
Inter-Institutional Relationships Map
Planning and                               Finance
Coordination                              Ministry                              Controller
Ministry                                                                        General
Under-Secr.of       Public Invest.  Budgeting         Accounting        Treasury       Programming      Dvuty Contr
Economic             & Internation.  Under-Secret.   Under-Secret.    Under-Secret   Office             General
Policv                     At i>nnll  
TrEaining Ct    Adi      Le9
:C t]       ~fairs
Complementaxy
Examinations
De utv Cont
Developmt.          Public            Budgeting        Account.Sy        Public              _
Strategies          Investments       Policy           Audit             Credit        Auditing         Internal Contr
Management A    &Admin.systex3
Special              Internatio.     Centr.Ad.        NrsPoe            Tesr
Projects             Cooperatio       BudgetingmPoc                     Tperasions      Auditing
Procesuggt  nx    Auditing 
Management C
Pre-invest.     Admin. norm      Computing
& procedure     Activities
EAdministra



Annez 8
MATRIX OF ACTIVITIES, OBJECTlVES, AND EXPECTED OUTPUT
PROJECT. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE LAW FOR GOVERNMENTAL ADMINISTRATION AND CONTROL
ACTIVITY                      OBJECTIVEPHYSICAL                         INSTITUTION                           EXPECTED                         TIMING TARGOF5
INDICATOR OF                       ARRANGEMENTS                         OUTPUT71MPACT                           (STARTINGI
PERFORMANCE                        RESPONSIBLITIES                                                             COMPLEIION)
A  Finanial Manarement &
L Budfi
1. Inusion of existing program-     Budgets that reflect the             Budgeting Subseartarial - Central    Precise budget submissions that              Aug-91 to Jul-92
e budgeting the standards           programming of inputs (both hutw4a   Administration and DeCent. nsti.     reect physcal requirseme
metioned (B 2.1,22 2.3,2.4)         resources and goods and service.)    Budgeting Divisions                  according to categories and critena
(US$64,000)                         according to standards established                                        developed in the standards.
for the management of tbese inputs
and to the organizational structure
developed.
2. Tnsfer of reponsibility for      Budget submissions prepared by        Budgeting Subsecreariat - Central   Budget programming done as a                 Aug-91 to Dec-92
badges formulation from Budget      each entity. Transformation of       Adm.nistration and Decent. InstL     function of eatC eni.ty's
Offoce progammer to each entity     current Budget Ofice programmers'     Budgeting Divisions                 requirements. Trained financal
(US$74,400)                         into financial analyst, capable ,f                                        managers in pubk entities that ae
providing guidance to the entities.                                      imernalized standards and control
functions
I Progresive improvements in        Make the necessary budgetary          Budgeting Subsecretariat - Central  Minimization of diviations between           Jul-91 to Dec-93
quality of budgeting process for    programming aljustments identified   Administrative and Decent. lnsti     the Budget and actual outlays -             Six month inteals
1992,1993, 1994. (USS103200)        by budget evaluations.               Budgeting Divisions                  based on careful programming of
inputs that reflect needs of each
entity.
4. Create Budget evaluation         Create a Budget Subsecretariat that  Budgeting Subsecretariat in          A budget that is formulated and              Mar-91 to Jul-93
pmcedures in the Budget             is able to modify ihe budget and     coordination with the Planning       subsequently evaluated as a function
Sabseusriat (USS93,600)             consolidate budget submissions to    Minisuy and Central Bank.            of dear policy guidelins.
reflect government policy (ire                                            Reallocation of public funds towrd
investment prioritics, debt st.vicing)                                   govermmental prioritis



AnmX 8
Pagr 2 0(14
ACllVITY                       OBlECTIVBP HYSICAL                        INSTnITUION                           EXPECTED                          TIMING TARGETS
INDICATOR OF                        ARRANGEMENTS                          OUrPUTfiMPACI                           (STARTING/
IBRFORMANCB                         RESPONSIBILMIlES                                                             COMPLMTION)
S. Develop budga enecutio            Deveop pbysicl aNd fimnadl            BiAdging Subsecrtariat               Budget execution evaduation                   Mar-91 to Jul-93
evaluation at tbe 1mt    and emnity  indicaton of performance for                                               procedures in entities that provide
Level. (US$93,600)                   programs dnd executing agencie,                                            feedback necssary for improving
Measure efwiency of public                                                subsequent budget submission, and
semnts rpsible for carying out                                             ultimately alocation of moso
programs Measur cost
effectieM    of invetment.
6. Deveopment of budget              Change from LOTUS to a more           Budgeting Subsecretariat in          Integrate budget                              Jan-91 to Dec-91
formubltion and    uation softwam    flexible and agie software - to allow  coordination Information Systems    formulawionkoodation to
(USS112Al0)                          intenelaticn with data bas            Unit - GAO                           accountingAsnuzy system. Agile
budget formulationknatuation
systen
7. Equipment for Budget Ofrie        Processing of budget submission       Information Systems Unit - GAO       Consolidated fully Integated System
(USSS,o000)                          directly integrted Into data base
and other systems.



ACTlVlfY                      OBJECrrVBiPHYSICAL                        INSTrIITUION                          EXPECTED                         TliINO TARGEIS
INDICATOR OF                       ARRANGEMENS                          OUTPlU171MPACI                          (STARTINGI
PERFORMANCE                        RESPONSIBILMITES                                                            COMl ETION)
IL Tlbr & Pubic Credit
1. Design and implementation of     Dcvlop procedures and outline       Tresury. Public Credit Divisio* in   A functional management of                   Aug.91 to Jan-93
Systems ad procedures for Public    responsibilities for the Public Credit    coordination with th[e subsectaty  emtenal debt and adequate records
Credit and Treasuy eompatible        Division of The Treasury. Derine     of Investment Planning and the      of internal debt. Precisia3 and aqile
with that spelled in the SAFCO       Responsibililies for the management  Central Bans Externat Debt          management of new credit lin and
Law.                                 of both internal and external public  Divison.                           conditions of repayment/"ebt
debt among the Central Bank of                                           servidcg.
Boivia, the Miniatty of Finance
(Trsury) and the Ministy of
Planning arnd Coordination.
2. Use of banking branch srem       Develop and operation procedures    Trasury - Budget Execulion           Expedient payments with better                Feb-91 to Jan-92
for payments - etimination of Sub-  for the payment A pensione           Programming Division in              co 'trol mechanism. Removal or a
Treasries. (US$76800)               public semnts, gtvernmenal           coordination with tbe Tax            source of corruption in the
supplier/ontram, through the         Collections Division who has similar  management of public funds
banking network. Contracts agreed   contracts with bankls for tax        Reduction of necessary staff frotn
to with pribate banks for these     collections                          Treasury.
3. Dissemination TmL standards to    Develop cash management             Treasury - Budget Excution           Contsol ihe amount of levsge                 Aug.91 to Dec-91
decentralized institutlrs            procedures and systems in public     Programming Division                taken on by public entities with the
(U1SS28AO)                           entities Produce reliable                                                objectives of minimizing ibe amount
infonmation on the managemnat of                                         of debt the Treasuy must absrb
debt and funds for proper                                                (subrogration). Coordination
coordination with moneaFy poliy.                                         monetary policy with managemt
Produce stock ganres for amount of                                       of funds More precise infomation
debt and lverage levels of principle                                     on the extend of internal debt and
public entities                                                          budga deGcit.
4. Speciric tandards reviewed by    Speciric cash management             Treasury - Budget Execution          Greater efficiency for cash                  Jan-92 to Jul-94
Subse    y of Treay                 procedures at each entity, tailored  Programming Division in              management at ecKh entity.
(US$144,A000                        to the operating necessities of each,  coordination with tbe GAO's        Optimalizalion ot f os and stocb
yet compatible with genral           Standards Diviion                   of funds at the entity kvel.
standards.                                                               Standardized casAlebt management
stanars



Annee 8
Page 4 of 14
ACTIWWY                        OBJECTlVE/PHYSICAL                        INSTrni ON                           EXPECTED                          TIMING TARGMS
INDICATOR OF                        ARRANGEMENTS                         OUTPUT7IMPACT                           (STARTINGI
PERFORMANCE                         RESPONSIBILMTIES                                                            COMPIlTION)
S. Rationle zation of issuante and   Inventory of tax paperalcommissions   Treasuty - Budget Execution          Issuance of vaWores according to              Feb-91 to Dec-91
mme_t o fical papers                 charged by the treasury for services  Programming Division in              demand for services. Ckar ruis for
(USS6400O)                           renderLd. Establishment of dear       coordination with the Treasurfs      the management of thes papers
rules for their use, storage and     Operations Division                  and for the cost of sevis
management.                                                               rendered by the public sector.
Elimination of unnecesary and
unjustfifed administrtiWe
commissions charged.
6.   upment needs for Treastuy to    Procurement of S mnicrcomputers      Information Systems Unit - GAO        Agile produetion of information on           May-91 to Dec-94
iidude reensues from taxes and       to operate the public credit system -  and Standards Division in           management of Treasury funds and
payin tsruwgh Bank system.           tracking Treasury payments through    coordination with Public Credit and  of public credit (levd, payments,
(US$5000)                            the banking sytm and revnues          Treasury's Budget Exec,              timing).
Programming Div.
-t
tn



Anna 8
Page 5 of 14
ACTIVITY                      OBJECTIVEIPHYSICAL                        INSTnIUMION                           BiXPECllED                       TIMING TARGETS
INDICATOR OF                       ARRANGEMENTS                         OUlTUTjIMPACT                           (STARTINGI
PERFORMANCE                        RESPONSIBILMITES                                                            COMPLETION)
Ill. Accountimn
1. Review and implementation of     Each Ministty and Central            General Acmounting Office -          Beutcr control of their own                  Feb-91 to Dec-92
autiliary details sub-accounts and   A'lmtinistration entity operating with  Accounting Processing Division,  expenditures, infotmal decisions on
supplementary accunts,               a complete detailed account of their  working dirctcly with thw 27 entities  the allocation of resources within
devdopment of management            asseslliabilities, and expenditures   of the Central Administration.      the Central Administration.
information systems for each entity  key to greater financial discipline
in the Central Administration.
(USS233,600)
Z Developmenttdaptation of           Installation of basic accountinS     General Accounting Ofrice will      Production of reliable and iimely             Feb-91 to Jan-93
integrated accounting systens from   systens in the principle             supervise the application of the    financial informtion in the major
the central administration to the    decentralized institutions and public  standards and procedures set out in  decentralized institutions for their
decentralized institutions and public  enterprises, compatible wvih the   the Manual for Decent. Inst. and    own control of finances, and to
enterprises application of manuals  standards set out by the GAO, able   the Guide for Public Enterprises.    broaden the data base of the MF,
and procedures devdoped during       lo produce financial input that cmn  Implemented by the Accounting       for exrting greater control of
SAFCO program.                       feed into the integrated data base of  Processing Division, reviewed by  acpendimures and measuring
(USS 483,200)                        the non-fin.pubsector.               Standards Division.                 performance.
3. Review and development of        Improve the qualityAlnstall financial  General Accounting Office, in      Systems functioning in all 15                Oct-91 to Mar-92
specific financial administration    administrative systems (budgeting,   coordination with the Budgeting     decn entities, easily transferable to
systems to a epresentative set of    accounting, treasury) in a           Subsecretariat, and the Treasury will    entities of similar nature. A direct
decentralized institutions.          representative number of             oversee sub-contracts for systems.  number of inputs for the GAO's
3.1   Transformation of Treasury   decentralized inslitutions. (Only    'Me computer systems unit of the     data base, with subsequent incrases
and Integ. Accounting        targeting decen.inst. that do not    GAO will bc responsible for          as the 15 model systems are applied
computer systems in place    have their own financing - not       transforming the exisLmg computer    funher.
towards an open version.     Public Enterprises)                  integrated system into an open
applicable to different      By developing models for other       version, applicable at the
computer                     decentralized institutions of similar  decentralized lvel in different
softwarelhardware.           nature, the pocess of disseminating  software
(US$66,000)                  SAFCO throughout the public          All three division of the GAO will
3.2   Design & implementation      sector will be accelerated. These    panicipate Ace. processing in
of 12 integrated ystems,     model 15 entities will have a        formulating and negotiating sub-
based on an estimated cost   multiplier effect on other similar   contracts, and Standards Division
of USS43,750 each. (see      entities Le, other Regional          win review.
Anneed brakdown)             Development Corporatisn, other
(US$525,000)                 Perfectures to cover other regions
3.3   Development and              and other leveb of goveznmenL
imptementation of 2
i-grated systems for
soual securt institutions,
estimated cost USS140,000
each. (USS?SO.00)



Anueg 8
Page 6 of 14
ACTIVrfY                      OBJECTIVEIPHYSICAL                        INSTUTION                             EXPECTED                         TIMING TARGES
INDICATOR OF                       ARRANGEMENTS                         OUTPUTIIMPACT                           (STARTING/
PERFORMANCE                        RESPONS181LITIES                                                            COMPLETION)
4. Data bae in the General           Financial information on             The information processing unit in  Data generated and accessible to             Aug-91 to Dec.93
Accounting Offre that will           perfonnance and efficiency for the  the General Accounting Offtce, in    those involved in fiscal accounts,
incorporate all public entities and  non-financial public sector as a    coordination with the Budgeting      statistics, and macroeconomic
produce fsal stattic,               whole and by entity. Inputs figures  Sub-Secretariat and the Ministry of  programming. Replace of the
(US$223,000)                         for national accounting, statistics of  Planning and Coordination        existing 'Emergency Program".
the public sector, and
nacroeconomic analysis.
S. Implementaatio of simplified     Greater ditsemination of basic        General Accounting Office           Application of existing manuals and          Jan-92 to Jul-94
SAFCO systems in en0fities of ksser  standards of financial administration  Standards Division.               standards to a greater number of
compleity, induding lal              in small municipalities, and                                             public entitls. Impact: I) better
governments, taking into acount      proincial health units etc.                                              control of their own fnances and
groups of simiar ature.             important for their own rnancial                                          resources, and 2) a broader data
(USS309,000)                        disciplin                                                                 base for the Minishy of Finance to
measure performance and excer
control of expenditures
6. Increase computer capacity of     Capacity to prOCess financial        General Accounting Ofrfce           Reliable and agile processing of             Feb-91 to Dec-91
computer data bae in General         statements of enie non-rfn. public  InforMation SysteMs Unit,            financial data of public sector.
Accounting Office (US$285,000)       sector - time and mnemty.
Provide required financial           Emergency Program - to be           Monthly information on the cash              Feb-91 to Dec 91
7. Maintenane of 'Eergency          information on the                    incorporated into General           flow situation of the major public
Programe until the development of   pesforman"ecxpdltumr of the         Aceuting Ofiwe,                     entities and the Central
accounting sytem. ((US$600,000)     public setor until awcouting                                              Adminstration.
system  ar in plae.



AnnR 8
Page 7 o 14
ACTIVJTY                      OBJECTJVE/HYSICAL                        INSTIMON                             EXPECTED                        TIMING TARGETS
INDICATOR OF                      ARRANGEMENTS                         OUrPUr/IMPACT                          (STARTINGI
PERFORMANCE                        RESPONSIBILTIES                                                           COMPLET10N)
IV. Govrnment Audit Function
1. Central Policy and Planning      Document in writing and formally    Deputy ComptroUer General           Guidance in place and opeative               Apr-91 to Dec-92
Establish the Technical and        issue the nonnative and regulatory   (DCG) and Executive Director of      both for the implementation of
Programming ornc (TO) to            pravions to govern the auditing in  Technical and Programming Office     CGR responsibilities under the new
cowlidate and document technical,    the government and the operation    (EDJ`PO) with international         'Internal Control and Audit Systemw
operating and administrative po'icy,  of CGR.                            consultants will prepare rive pemons  throughout the public sector.
standards and guidance rdating io   a) Organization and administrative  to head major TPO functions.         Continual updatinp and
govenment auditing and the CGR      manuals for CGR                                                          improvement of g6.dance baed
and to provide ongoing techical     b) Regulations for audit staff                                           upon feedback from its application
advice to the goverment audit       performance evaluation and                                               reported by auditorm Annual
function. (USS752,200)              profesional development                                                  priorty assipment and planning for
c) Standards of Intenal Control                                         CGR's audit functions including
and Government Auditing                                                 provision of advice to CGR staff
d) Regulations for contracing                                           and public sector cntitles rtgarding
auditing firms to perform audits                                        the technical aspects of the Intenal
c) CGR Auditing Manual                                                  Control and Auditing System. ao
I) Regulations governing financial
reporting and audit of non-public
sector entities which handle public
g) Regulations regaing fow up
ytems for contracts, lega
ptocema and otber lgal mailttes
h) Annual audit plan for 1992 and
ach pear thereafter incuding
ompition of Interal audit plans.



Annex 8
Page 8 of 14
ACTIYITY                      OBJECTiVEIPHYSICAL                        INSTiTUTION                           EXPECTED                         TIMING TARGETS
INDICATOR OF                       ARRANGEMENTS                         OUTPUT/IMPACT                           (STARTING!
PERFORMANCE                        RESPONSIBILITMES                                                            COMPLEIlON)
Z Establishment of Audit            Three central Audit Departments       DCG and Deputy Comptroller for      Audits being performed in                    Apr-91 to Dec-93
Operations Units: Set up the        organized, statfed and functioning:  Audit Operations (DC/AO) with        accordancdc with annual plan and in
structure staff and train formally   a) Public Corporations and           international consultants will      conformity with the standards issued
and on-the-job a cadre of           Services                              prepare four audit managers to      of about 20% annually of the public
professional auditors to carry out  b) Social Services and Lo1           head the three centralized audit    sector entities with reports issued
the field audit operations necessary  Governments                         units, the decentralized audit      on a timely basis and follkwup
to fulfill CGRWs mision             c) Remainder of Central               function, and the administrative and  carried out to assure action on audit
(US$2,509,700)                      Government and Departmental          systems dcvelopment function.        findings and nrmmendations.
Governments                                                              Fve: audil professional prepared to
Three decentralized audit units                                          head major functions and
organized, staffed and functioning in                                    approximately 300 audit staff
three major cities,                                                      members organized, trained and in
Department for development and                                           various stages of professional
monitoring of administrative and                                         development (supervisoms team
internal control systems organized,                                      leaders, senior auditors, junior
staffed and functioning.                                                 auditors, etc.) actions and
Conracts executed for six specal                                         improvements in the  omancial                                     cc
examinationL                                                             systemns and operations of the                                    '
Initiation of specialized audit                                          entities audited. Non-financial
support to develop operational audit                                     professionals prepared to initiate
capability.                                                              operational audits having gained
experience collaborating in the
specal examinations performed by
firms
3. Lgal and Investigatory Support    Three centralized legal departments  DCG and Deputy Comptroller for      Legal counsel being pmvided to               Apr-91 to Dec-92
for the Audit Function  Set up the  organized, staffed and funttioning:   Legal Services (DCAQS) with         auditors during field work including,
basic legal services required for   a) legal Analysis                    international consultants will       where necessary, field work by
CGR to carry out its mission         b) Legal and Administrative Follow   prepare three managers to head the  lawyers as audit team mmbe
preparing legal and investigatory   Up                                   departments and a core group of      Analysis of legal implications of all
specialists to advise auditors,     c) Complementaty Examinations        about 20 lawyers for legal analysis  audit findings and refeml of lgal
analyze reports, investigate criminal  (Criminal Investigations)         function and three for codification  action as appropriate including
acts, gather prosecutory evidence,   Draft and formally issue regulations  function. They will also set up, staff    criminal prosecutions. Specialized
and follow up the resultant egal     covering accountability for          and train the specialized group of  criminal investigatory activity to
prosess  (US$821,200)               government resources handled by      auditorlinvestigators.               development evidence for
any party.                                                               prosecution functioning to feed
Draft and present to the legisiative                                     cases to public prosecutor. Seminar
branch law to set up Administrative                                      held on legal and technial ethics
Law Court.                                                               Personal computerized data base se
Administrative Law Codification                                          up on administrative law being used
system designed and initiated.                                           to facilitate updating and
improvement as well as for
reference purposes



Annex 8
Page 9 of 14
AClIVffY                       OBJECTrVEjPHYSICAL                        INSTITJI.ON                           EXPECTED                         TIMING TARGETS
INDICATOR OF                       ARRANGEMENTS                          OUTPUT/IMPACT                           (STARTINGf
PERFORMANCE                         RESPONSIBILITIES                                                            COMPLETION)
4. Complete Electronic Equipment:    Equipment acquired to permit         DCG and Diretor of Finance and       CGR operating various                         Jun-91 to Dec-91
Provide remainder of computer and    planned data bases and systems.      Administralion to arrange for        computerized tracking and follow up
computer-related equipment to                                              acquisition.                        systems for public sector and its
enable CGR to carty out its mission                                                                            own internal administrative and
during the next fne yea                                                                                        financial systems
(US$427,400)
4.1   Organize IS Function and      An organized information systems                                          Ability to operate computerized
Review IS Program            function within CGR and                                                    systems reliably, and effective
appropriale policies for IS                                               technical suppon for users of
management developed.                                                     computing tools.
4.2   Develop Audit Operations      System operational and audit                                                      A data base of all
Programming and Control      program loaded. Database of audit                                                 programmed audit
System.                      recommendations loaded.                                                           operations, their scheules,
costs, and human resources
available for management                                  w
of CGR's operational worlu
-      Increased ability to track
compliance with audit
recommendations and
increased effectiveness and
credibility of accountability
system.
4.3   Develop Legal Proceedings     System opeirational ard data base                                         Decrease in gernment judicial
Tracking System.             loaded.                                                                    losses from non-compliance with
coun deadlines.



Annes 8
Page 10 of 14
ACTIVITY                      OBJECllVB/PHYSICAL                       INSTMIMllON                           EXPECTED                         TIMING TARGE1S
INDICATOR OF                       ARRANGEMENTS                         OUTPUThAMPACT                          (STARTINGI
PERFORMANCE                        RESPONSIBILITIES                                                           COMPLETION)
4.4   Develop Human                Data base operational and query                                                  A regitr of mancal
RP-w /lhninS                facltyavailable. Trainig pwgntm                                                   proiaon  (audEtou,
Syms.                        loaded.                                                                         accouants, fiaial
manag.) aable for
human resourc
-      A gpergw at<x
- waattendsu%
chedules, and ems wil be
available for online
consultation ad
management i CGR`S
training prgram.
4.5   Dvelop LeA  Data Basc                A pilot data bald  ystem                                         Incrased abilliy to determine
cperatial and                                                    legality and admbtatlive
aprpriate inde6.u&                                               compliance of public ector
thesaurus, and etracting                                         institutions, and inceasd
predures defined.                                                effecties of judicial pmceedings
-      Progeie indusbo of
adminisatiwe laws in the
data bae to occur over the
entire project leth
4.    Pnmure computer              -       Purdhae cntmct arded.                                            Audit teams able to perform better
equipment fcr CORI                  Computer equipment                                                     ted  more effective, and
install  and operational,                                        moe complet audit



At 8
r&,e 11 of 14
ACTrVTfM                       OBJECllVE/HYSICAL                         INSITrLMON                             XPCI1ED                         TIMING TAROG1M
INDICATOR OF                       ARRANGEMENTS                          OUWUIYFIMPACr                           (STARlINGI
PERFORMANCE                         RESPONSIBILRX1ES                                                            COMPLETION)
B. Stadard ad ReuatIBns
1. Reie nd adjust eisting            Adopt constent staards in the        Budgeting Subse aral -               Develop an integnted set of                   Feb-91 to Ju-94
tan    s & regulations to that       Minisity of Fnanee for ihe rtmncial  Standards and Pocedu   Dvsio.         tandard that will save a a
splled out in SAFCO bw:              administratiom sysems called for in   Coordinating with Iheuuy, GAO,       uormative foundaton for the
Otpnizahion of the Msty of           the SAFCO Law.                       and other Budgeting Dision            devepmet of rfancial
Fnao, Budgeting, lTuay.                                                                                        adminisation stems in the public
Integrat   Accountift  Aconting                                                                                sector. Adjusting odting and
Maul for public enteprises and                                                                                 reiwin new oe deveoped.
de'Pnt. insitution  Dkectim of
Mm. of Fun axmpomeas
(USS2SO00
*2. Drafting of stndards and         Deveopment consistent slandards      Budgeting Subsecretariat -           Rationalize the management of
rphations for the Folwing            and procedu,cs for the management    Standards and Procetrm Disiop.       reated administrative sytems that
systems:                             of non-financal systems in the        Budget Exec. Prog. Division of       alkng with the fmancial
Z    Opertions Progamming          public sector. Develop procedures    Treasuty Public Credit Dision of     administrative systems will faciitate        Feb-91 to june-91
(USSI24.00)                  for debt management ad cash           Treasury. S;andards Dvson GAO.       the exction of govmental
22   Adminsatbve                    mament for the public sector.                                             polides and investment programs.             Feb-91 to May-91
Organization (US$41,600)
2.3   Peesonnel Magement                                                                                                                                    Feb-91 to Dec-91
(USsM3,60")
2.4   Protrt JtlMU                                                                                                                                         Feb-91 to Ma3F1
2 Goos&sv. (US$41,600)
2.5   Treasu  atzy s  Public Ctdt                                                                                                                           Feb-91 to Aug-91
(USSZO)
I  Impementtion of Opentio           Develog*djus peeral sanards to        Budgeitng Subsecetaat -              Basis for developmet of noen
Progmmfi  setems, Peomd              specfic institutional needs or goup  Standard and Procedur  DWivi         financal sytm   in each entity.
Mnagement, and                       of nstituto      Ens    compatibity                                       Iation Of the  stem  With
Proement/Am. df goods nd             of spedfic standards to genaelized                                        the finanal rystm  of the pubfic
Services.                            sandardsd                                                                 sector Minit  d Fin   -
31    D       ttmintlm of standa_s                                                                            ovesse .                                      Jun.91 to D1-2
(USSISA
3.2    Dsaftlqof spselc                                                                                                                                     Jsml-91 to Dec92
_ds for sea   aor
33  Rule and                                                                                                                                                1DM io Dg-9
Mnhff by Buget OhM.
(Ud _01



Anncx 8
Page 12 of 14
ACTIVMTY                      OBJECTVEJPHYSICAL                        INSTTUnTION                           EXPEC7ED                         TIMING TARGETS
INDICATOR OF                       ARRANGEMENTS                         OUTPUVIPMPACT                          (STARTING/
PERFORMANCE                        RESPONSIBILITIES                                                           COMPLETION)
4. Implementation of Administ.      Elimination of ctisting duplication  Budgeting Subsecrtatiat -            Savings in public expenditures by
Organizational System               of functions between public entities.  Standards and Procedures Division.  reducing the number of enities,
4.1   Restructuring of the         Functional definition of                                                 eliminating those whose function is          Sep-91 to Aug-92
Central Administration and   responsibilities within public                                           better performed by other existing
decentralized entities,      entities, thereby, separating                                            entity or mechanism. Facilitate the
redefining the number of     incompatible functions and allwving                                      application of internal control
entities, responsibilities and  for basic iniernal control and                                        procedures wilhin the public
scope of each (US$76,000)    auditing.                                                                institulions by applying standardized
4.2   Disseminatio, of basic                                                                                rational organizational structures.          Jul-91 to Dec-91
organizational standards
according to type of entity.
(USS30,400)
43   Adjustment to the internal                                                                                                                          Jan-92 to Jul-93
organization of each t,ajor
entity or group of entitts -
to reflect operations prog.                                                                                                                                               OD
(USS91,200) 



Ah8
Pae 13 of 14
ACr[VrTY                      OBECTlVEPRHYSICAL                        INSIrILMON                            EXPECTED                          WMNG TARGETS
INDICATOR OF                       ARRANGEMENTS                         OtUtUTf/IMPACr                         (STARTIOI
PERFORMANCE                        RESPONSIBILMrIES                                                           COMPuETnON)
C  Thtmng   FLaucla
Adminio and Govumment
1. Compoca Managmet and             Plan, supervise, coodinate activities  Director of CGR's Traiing Center  Training Ceater ornized including            Oct-91 to Jun-93
quality Co_ rol (USS312,000)        and ensure quality of outputs.       and Training Compoent                programming, control, admit.
Managenent International            Systems so as to monitor, evluate
Consuhant                           and provide fced-back a needed to
yield quality outputs, that is stff
from all levels of admin. wll
trained in implmenting the SAFCO
law.
Z ReviewAJpdate/ Complement         PFMO I Courses to be adapted to      Intemnational Consultant and         S Basic coreses revised; 7 new              Feb-91 to Aug-92
Basic Courses (US$660,000)          progress made in implementing the    Academic Director of the Training   courses designed; 12 new texts for
SAFCO law, new courses to be         Center with support from an         programmed instruction coherent
designed including adapted didactic  Institution specialized in          with didactic aids and instnicors                                   OD
aids                                programmed instruction.              guidesI
3.1 Delivery of Basic Introductory  60 Basic 5-day Courses to be         Training Center Personnel            Induction curse on the SAFCO law            Mar-91 to Jun-93
Course (US$131000)                  delivered to introduce content of                                        for 2,700 professionals of mid- and
the SAFCO law and its practical                                          higher-levels (about 7% of total civil
implications                                                             servants)
3.2 Specialized training for staff  Delivery of about 100 courses of 3-9  Ditto                               100 finandal professional from              Mar-91 to Jun-93
frm  central and decentralized adm.  weeks of duration in i) financial                                       central admin. & 35 decentr.
(US$1,065,W00)                      -tatements and integrated                                                 entities plus 130 profes already in
accounting; ii) accounting systems;                                     the process of being trainetd plus
iii) oper. programming; iv) internal                                     200 audit staff trained in addition to
organization and financial                                               120 more in process
administration; v) personnel admin.
and procurement; vi) auditing; and
vii) public sector accuntability
3.3 Leislation rdated training      Delivery of 35 3-6 week coures for   Ditto                                70 lawyers from CGR trained and             Apr-91 to Jun-93
relited training for laes,          financial and non-financial staff                                        from 35 entities plus 30 in proeess;
aigneesi and othes frotm central    from public sector entities at all                                       and 30 engineers and other profesL
and decentralized ad-ini            levds on financial administration,                                       to participate in multi-disciplinary
(USS241,000)                        accounting and same as above but                                         audit work.
from the kgal viewpoint.



hp 14  U14
ACTVWt                         ORJECTlVBEPHYICAL                          MTOFnON                              EXPECFED                         TlaMNG TARCOE
INDICOLTOR OF                      ARRANGEMBNIS                          OlmUTPIU ACr                            (SrARITI
PERFORMANCB                         RESPONSIBILBflBS                                                            COmpLWnON)
4 Mae degpee for PMic                Hiig of Co _nltants from a            Ditto                                Ma  Degree edg  apprd  and                   J1.92 to Apr-93
Aamint and FWAdl and                 foreignuesty to deugan trdy for inpemeauin in
Admlsatatiom and Control             ao d    cunciulum "ltkhin                                                  Bodvian ua_ie   ft h is 1
(US5,00)                             one or m     Boliin univerik.                                              that by 1995,37 nSat  dege  wIn
ban been awared.
S. liing Center Pbysil               Improvement of four da  moms in       Ditto                                4 dan room eqipped and fhuid                 Apr,41 to Dec-92
Upgrading (US$360,00D)               two regi  to decenmisae the                                                to two regions and LA Paz Ca
deivy sysm   Upgading of                                                  upgraded wth lanag trnslation
ftialcs in La Paz Center inldding                                         facility impved cateria and a
taching rooWs, caftia,                                                    technical libray nalled and
auditofium akd techical library to                                        equipped with 3,000 volumc
be initily equipped with about
3,000 techil volumes
Co



-89-
Annex 9
BOLIVIA I PUBLIC FINANCIAL NANAUEKNT OPERATION II
Integrated Information Systems Program
CONTENTS
r-   PROGRAM SUMMARY                                                2
Ir-  CURRENT CONSTRAINTS                                            2
A- Accounting                                                  2
8- Budgeting                                                   3
C- Auditing                                                    3
D- Treasury and Public Credit                                  3
Z- Organization and Management                                 3
III- PROGRAM DESCRIPTION                                            4
IV-  IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE, INPUTS, AND COSTS                     10
an   -q                                                             13
9.1  Computer Equipment Configurations                              13
9.2  Cost Summary for Computers and Other Equipment                 14



-90-
Annex 9
Page 2 of 12
2
I- PROGRAM SUMMARY
1.    The  integrated  information  system  (IS)  program  is a collection of
activities from each of the components of the PFMOII project which deal with
computerized  information  system  development,   computer  procurement,   or
technicalassistance in information systems. The general objective of this program
is to implement an integrated financial management system in the Bolivian public
sector by continuing and expanding the activities and accomplishments of PFMO.
2.    This document consists of four sections as follows:  Section II describes
the current constraints to be addressed by the program. Section III describes
the constraints, activities, indicators of performance, and expected results of
the program. Section IV contains an implementation schedule, inputs, and cost
summary.
II- CURRENT CONSTRAINTS
3.    What follows is a description of those aspects of the current information
systems environment which represent constraints, shortcomings, or problems in
achieving the objectives of the PFMOII project, and which will be addressed
through activities described in Section IV.
A- Accountina
A.1 At present, the "Sistema Integrado de Informacion Financiera - SIXF,
developed under PFMO, operates only in the central government, and
needs to be extended to the entire public sector.
A.2 SIIF currently lacks a module to maintain a public sector data base
suitable for frequent and high-level consultation.
A.3 Several key linkages need to be developed to integrate the
government's financial management system. SIIF does not receive
revenue data disaggregated by revenue source on a timely basis; it
does not have an operational linkage with the SISIN system in the
Ministry of Planning (which tracks the implementation of the
investment program); finally, it lacks a linkage to the Emergency
Program to capture cash expenditure data from public sector
institutions.
A.4 There are four different and incompatible technical environments used
for the SIIF system, the Emergency Program, the provisional budget
formulation systems, and the tax administration systems. These need
to be normalized and integrated in this project.
A.5  The  current  configuration  of the Wang VS-5000 minicomputer  is
saturated and needs replacement to cope with the increasing workload
of an expanding SIIF.



-91-                       Annex 9
Page 3 of 12
B- Budaetina
B.1  The current systems are prototypes developed in Lotus. They now need
to be replaced by industrial-strength systems on which to base the
long-term operation of the budgeting function in the Government.
B.2  The budget formulation and evaluation systems need to be extendel
beyond the central government to the entire public sector.
B.3  The "Subsecretaria de Presupuesto" has at present a complement of
old, underpowered microcomputers and only a few relatively modern
units. It is necessary not only to obtain better analytical
workstations, but to connect them to a central data base and through
it to the SIIF system in the main computer.
C- Auditina
C.1  The Controller General Office (CGR), which has undergone substantial
downsizing through elimination of ex-ante control and other
functions, has now acquired a responsibility to audit ex-post not
just the financial but the operational aspects of public sector
management.   At the moment, the CGR does not have any technology
support  for this  new responsibility.    It  lacks minimal  audit
operations and resource control systems, it does not have a system
to track numerous legal proceedings occurring nation-wide, and it
lacks office automation and analytical tools to speed up and record
the audit work in the field.
C.2  The CGR lacks computer equipment on which to operate any systems that
are developed as per above.
D. Treasury and Public Credit
D.1  The  Treasury  function  is poised  for major  redesign  with  the
implementation of the "Caja Unica" concept and the proposed use of
the banking system for disbursements.   A cash management control
system is needed to control the treasury operations nationwide.
D.2  The Treasury needs microcomputers to speed and improve analytical
work.    It also  needs  computer  equipment  to  operate the  cash
management control system nientioned above.
E. Oraanization and Management
E.1  At present, neither the Ministry of Finance nor the CGR has a solid
information systems organization.
E.2  There  are no established policies  and procedures  for use and
management of IT assets, no standards for systems documentation, and
no deliberate policy on accountability for costs and operation of
information systems.



-92-                      Annex 9
Page 4 of 12
8.3 A professLonal training program ie lackLng which provldes DolivLan
Information Technology experts periodic contacts with tite producers
of technology.
III- PROGRAM DESCRIPTION
4.    The integrated flnancial information system  (IS) Program under PFMOII
conslsts therefore of the activities and investments necessary to eliminate the
constraints, resolve the problems, and develop the missing capabilities describod
in Section II above.  These activLties and their resource requirements are
describod in thie section ln the order of the broad PFMOII component areas to
which they pertain.



S
IV - IMPLEMENTATlION SCHEDULE. INPUT AND COSTS
Problem/Constralnt    |                  Activitie                    OblactivesPhsieal Indiceator
A.      Accountina
A.1    lirited institutional Coverage   1.1    Install SIIF in 15 decentralized   Signed contracts with consulting firns    Evidence of implemntation progress.
of financial management              institutions.               for development and instailation of SIIF
system - SIIF.                                                   In each instituton.
Signed letters of agreement between  Resources, schedule, cost,
MF & each individual institution on  responsibiitis of MF and each
installatic' of SIIF.                institution clearly defined.
SIIF systewn istalled end producing  Increasing share of publtc funds
financial reports in each institution.  properly and timely accounted for and
ability to obtain relable pubfic seatm
financial stetonoms.
A.2.   Incomiplete functional        1.2    Implement Public Sector       Date base loaded and querylreporting  Capability to view on demond the
coverage of SIHF.                   Financial Data Base.         facility operational.                aggregated picture of public finances
in Bolivia, for plonring and control
purposes.
1.3.    Develop custom auxiliarV    Custom modules installed and running    Timeliness, efficiency, and relay in
modules for central         in each Ministry.                    feeding data to SIIF.
govemment institutions.
A.3.    Lack of Integration of SIIF  1.4.    Develop a software linkage to   Financial date on investment program  Increased reliability of investment
with other governmental             transfer data to SISIN".     collected through SIIF for Ministry of  project data end simplification of SISIN
sWytems.                                              _          Planning.                            systom adinistration. |
1.5.    Graduate decentrai.zed       Decreasing numnber of institutions in  Increasing integration of financial       X
instieutions from Ernergency  Emergency Program.                 management system. Gradual phesingi         Ln
Program.                                                         out of Emergency Program.                 0
1.6.    Develop a data linkage for   Revenue data by source received     Increased ability for financial 
revenue data.               montMy by SIIF.                      management.



6
IV * IMPLEMENTATION SCDULE. INPUTS AND COSTS
ProblemlConrtralnft                       Activities             I      Obiectlves/Physical IndicatoRr [u
A.4.    Incompatible                  1.7.    Select an open software       Operating end database software
hardwarelsoftware                    environment for decentralized   systems selected.
technology                           financial management
system.
1.8.    Develop a transportable, open   Version of SIIF producing identical  Ability to install SIIF or custom
version of SIIF.             results in different hardware         versions ' it in decentralized
environments.                        institutions on demand.
A.5.    Insufficient computer         1.9.    Acquire computer              - Tender document finalized.          Sufficient computing capacity
equiprnent                           hardware/software for MF.                                           available.
-New equipment installed and          Increased timeliness of computerized
operational.                          management reports.
B. Budba                                                             
B.1.    Provisional Budget           2.1.    Develop & install Budget       Budget Formulaton System operational   Increased efficiency and accuracy in
FormulationlEvaluation               Formulation System.           or new software environment.          budget fornulation work.
Systems.                                                                                               _
2.2.    Develop & install Budget      Budget Evaluation System operational    Increased efficiency and accuracy in
Evaluation System.           on new software environment.          budget evaluation work.
B.2.    Umnited institutional        2.3.    Implement budget systems in            FormulationlEveluation        Effective decentralization of budget
coverage.                            decentralized Institutions.           systems opersting in          managemnt and increasing
increasing number of         accountability of managers.
institutions.
Reduced number of analyst
travel days.
8.3.    Insufficient computer         2.4.    Expand computer equipment    New equipment instafled and            Increased efficiency and accurecy in     ' 
equipment.                           of Subsecretaria de           operational.                          budget formulation, consolidation,       a
Presupuesto.                                                       management and control. Success of          X
C.___________________________ Auditino_____________________                _____________________________           activities  2.1   end   2.2   is  precondition.  a'
0
C. Ago=in



7
IV - IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE. INPUTS AND COSTS
ProblemlConstraint|                               Activhies                           Objectives/Physical Indicator                       OutputlResult
C.1       Inadequate information             3.1       Organize IS Function and           An organized Information systems             Ability to operate computerized
systems support for CGR                      Review IS Program                  function within CGR and sppropriate          systems reliably, and effective
policies for IS management developed.    techrncal support for users of
| ___________________________________        ____________________________________          ____________________________________         com  puting   tools.
3.2       Develop Audit Operations           System operational and audit program         -         A data base of all
Programnrming and Control          loaded. Database of audit                              progranmed audit
System,                            recommendations loaded.                                operations, their schedules,
costs, and human resources
avaslable for management of
CGR's operational work.
-         Incresmed ability to track
compliance with audit
recommendations end                        vi
increased effectiveness and
credibility of accountability
____ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___system.
3.3       Develop Legal Proceedings          System operatiosal and data base             Decrease in government judicial losses
Tracking System.                   loaded,                                      from non-compliance with court
____________________________________                                ~~ ~~deadlines.
3.4       Develor '.n,man Resource /         Data base operational and query facirity               A register of
Training SVstem.                   available. Training progran loaded.                    financialprofessionals
(auditors, accountants,
financial managers) avaiktle
for human resurce
management.
-    A regster of courses,                   l
inrstuctors, attendants,                 D  D
schedules, and costs will be               X
available for onlinte 
consultation and
managenent of CGR's
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _    _ _   _ _  _ _  _   _ _   _ _  _ _  _ _     _  _ _   _  _ _   _ _  _ _   _ _  _ _  _               training     p rogra m.



8
IV - IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE, INPUTS AND COSTS
Problem/Constrints                       Activities                   Obiectives/Physical Indicetor              OutnutlResult
3.5     Develop Legal Data Base.     -       A pilot data based system    Increased ability to deterrnine legality
opertional, and appropriate  and administrative cornpliance of
indexing, thesaurus, and    public sector institutions, end
extracting procedures       increased effectiveness of judicial
defined.                    proceedings.
-       Progressive inclusion of
administrative laws in the
data base to occur over the
entire project length.
C.2    Insufficient computer         3.6     Procure computer equipment           Purchase contract awarded.    Audit teams able to perform better
equipment.                          for CGR.                     -        Computer equipment installed   documented, more effective, and more
j                                 ,_________________________________  and  operational  cornplte  audits.
D.      Treasury and Public Credit
D.1    Inadequate information       4.1      Develop e Public Credit      System completed and operatinal.     Ability to track cash operations, to
systems support for                 Control System.                                                   estsbish cash posion of GOO on
Treasury.                                                                                             demand, an4 to rniirza financid
D.2    Insufficient computer        4.2      Procure computer equipment    Equipment installed and operationah.        Increased analytical capacity.
equipment.                          for the Treasury.                                                          Abirty to operata the Public
0                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~crecrit Sysemr.
E.      Oraanization ak.
Manaaernent
EA      Weak IT support             5.1      Develop IT support                   PFMOII IT Coordinator
organization.                       organizaton.                          appointed.
m (D
-       IT Steouing Committee formed                                         O X
and operatng.
*       IT support orgardzaion
approved and staffed.



9
IV - IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE. INPUTS AND COSTS
ProblemlConstradnts                    Activities                  Oblcve/Phsiucal Indicator                 OutputIR__u_t
E.2    Inexstent IT policies and   5.2     Develop IT policies and     Completed policy and procedure
procedures.                        procedures.                 statements for system documentation.
computer equipment operation and           Reliable planning, protection,
maintenance, programming standards,        adrinistration, and control of
systems security, system development,     information technology
project management, accountability for     assets at MF and CGR.
IS projects and assets, and cost
allocation for IS projects and assets.
E.3    Inadequate professional     5.3    Implement IT professional            Full documentation of
training prograrn for IT staff.   training prograrn to acquaint       software technology available
staff with latest advances of      for use by staff.
technology being used,
provide contacts with sources  -   Training courses taken by
of technology in US, and           each IT staff at MF and CGR.
maintain knowledge of best                                                                               '
practices in use of        -       Yearly attendance to user                                             a
technology.                        group meeting.
00
tDM
sD 
'0



10
Vt - IMPLEMENTATON SCHEDULE. INPUTS AND COSTS
Imnplementation Schedute per Project Yoas     |                       Project Costs IUSS;OOO)
1991        1992         1993         1994       1995      Consultants     Consu  .;   Equip        Projet Fiancin
Acthvdtieslnpnuts               .rsterslna                   n      i     n      1     mmffwds         Contrau's,an
lat   2rid  1st   2nd   1st   2nd   1st   2nd   7gt        Local    Intem.                        For.Exch. Local     Total
A. Accountina
1.1. nstaltSttF In 15 decentralized -t846                                                                                             846        0    _44
insttutions.
1.2. Imnplerent Public Sector                                                                   40        10                           89       60       140
Fhwncal Data Base.                  _______
1.3. Develop custom auxaTy                                                                      44                                      0       66        es
nmduLes for central government
ntiautions.
1.4. Develop a software tnkage to                                                                                                       0        0 O
transfer deta to 'SlSltN. ¶                                                                     I                         _
1.5. Gsaduate dceamatzed                                 r"O=0                                                                                   0         0
insitutions frm Emegenc y
Ptogramn.
1.6. Develop a data tinkage for xtoooooooox                                                                                              0       0         0
revenue data.
1.7. Select an open software             mccx                                                                                           0        0         0
environrnent for fhnciat
managenent system.         _     _____
1.d. Acquire computer                         xx_oooooaoC                                                                     285     285        0       285    g
hwdware/softwwto lto MF.__X
1.9. Develops transportable. open                      _                                        12         6                           48       18        66  |O  qO
vesion of SIIF.                                                                                                                                              0
Subtotal- Accountina                                                                     96         16       846       285    1.259      144    1.403 



11
VI - IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE. INPUTS AND COSTS
_______________________        Implementation Schedule per Project Year                               Project Costs IUSSO00I
1991        1992         1993         1994       1995      Consultants     Consultng   Equip         Project. Financing
Activitieslinputs               .     --_  ___-     Semesters   ----         ---       (manlmonthsl     Contracts  nment
1st   2nd   lst   2nd   1st   2nd   let   2nd   let       Local    Intem.                        For.Exch. Local     Total
B. Budoetfin
2.1. Develop & instal Budget                              X,OO    ocXX                         30          3                           24       45       69
Formulation System.
2.2. Develop & install Budget                    =X18                                                       2                           16       27       43
Evaluation System.
2.3. Transfer budget fomulation end                                                                                                      0        0        0
evaiuation responsibility to
decentrarlzed hinstutions.
2.4. Expand computer equipment of           xxxxxx                                                                             50        0        0        0
Subsecretadra de Presupuesto.                                                                                                           I
Subtotal - Budaetina                                                                    48          5                 50        90       72       162
C. Auditina
3.1. Develop IS Organization and          xXcx         Tu xxxx                   XXXX xmt                   4                           32        0       32
Review IS proram
_______                                                                                                                                             _     __eI
3.2. Develop Audit Operations                                                                    6          3                           24        9       33
Programming and Control
System.                     I_II
3.3. Develop Legal/Adminrative    |                                                             4  j       1                            8        6       14   | 
Proceedings                                                                                                                                                    OQ 
ProgrammingfTeckhg System.                                                                                                                                      00
3.4. Develop Human Resource I                                 |                                  8 |       3                            24      12        36
Training System.              _                                                                  J        3                                                    0
35. Develop Legal Data Base.    |a oaaoo,cX                                                      8                                      24        9



12
VI  IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE. INPUTS AND COSTS
Implementation Schedule per Project Year                              Project Costs IUSI'O0O)
I  .        _._            _  _       __                                                 l            l~~~~I 
1991        1992         1995         1994       1995      Consultants     Consutin| Equip           Project Fmancog
Activities/lnouts                        .          Semesters   ----------    -----    (mnwmonthsl     Contracts |     m
1lst   .nd   1st   2nd   lot   2nd   lot   2nd   Ist       Local    Intem.                        For.Exch. Local     Tota
3.6. Procure computer equipment for            xxxx,oax     xmexxx                                                            Soo        O        O
CGR.                                                          I                                           I_ 
Subtotal- Auditing                                                                      24 1_4    O_                  600 _              36      748
0. Treasrv and Public Credit
4.1. Develop a Pubic Credit Control              xxooaoooox                                     36                                     -         64       54
System.                                                        _                            --
4.2. Procure cornputer equipment for             xxxxxx                                                                       19         0        0        0
the Treasury.                __
Subtotal - Treasury and Pun Gedit                                                              36          0                 19        19       54        73
E. Maneaement end Oraankation
6.1. Develop IT SuppoIt Organizati n                                                                        9                -_         72                72
5.2. Develop IT Polices and      |x               _xx                                                       9                           72                72
Procedures tI_                                                                          I_____
6.3. IT TraInIhg Program and              xxxx       xxx0x         cx       xxxx xxxxx  =                           64                  64                64
Software Updates            I                                                                        -                     -       -                 -
Subtotal  Mananement and                                                                            18        64                208               208
TOTAL                                  5__                                        204        53        910       954   2.288  |306  |2S4
0



-101-
Annex 9.1
COMPUTER EQUIPMENT CONFIGURATION
Microcomputador Tlvo A. Costo asdmando promadlo: 02.700.
- Unidad cantral de proceso 80286 a mojor. con I megabyte de memowa.
Disco duro de *proximadamento 30 megabytes.
- Unidad de diskette de 3.6.
- Impresora de matrix de puntor do baja volooldad.
- Software procesador do palabras tal como Wordparfect.
Planila de cilculo eslctrdnlco tat como Lotus.
MSreacomputador Typo B. Costa etimado: 08,000
Tondrin 80 mogabytes de almacenarnionto on dIsco, 2 mogabytes de momorl, usain en o mbcroproosador B0388SX o mejor. todrin
una Improsora de matrz de puntos, y pantallas a color. El coato del softwre aplicativo, b*rn de datoe, et.e rAesesbs par Ia funcMn
asignads a cada computador do oat. tipo ostJ inclufdo an el praco ostltmdo do 85.000. quo por tanto presponta un pfemedlo eotmado.
hlcrocomputador Tipo C. Costoestim do: *1.000
Procesador 80288 con 1 mb. deo  mord, monitormonocrommtco, une unided do diskettede 3.6' nlngOn softwre proplo porcu nto sin
usedor con conexi6n a un servidor de red local.
Microcomputador Typo D - Portable. Costo ostwmado $2,700
- Unidad contral de proceso 80288 o major, con I megabyto de memola.
- Disco duro do 20 megabytes.
- Unidad de diskette de 3.5.
- Impresora de matrix de puntoa de bala volocidad.
Software proesador de palabras tal como Wordperfact.
- PlaniUla de cilculo electrdnkco tal como Lotus.
- Utilitarlo de directorlo telof6nico, libreto do notas, manojo de archivos y ceWuladora otebtniba tel oomo Sidekick.
Microcomputador TIpo E. Costo estimado: *26,000.
Microprocos6dor 80386 o major, 4 mnb mInima, 26 mhz o mpjor. 320 mb de atmacnamiento. dskotte de 3.5., color VGA. mnutlpexor
paro custro tenninales.
* 4 torminals sin Intoligencle.
- Improsora de matrih rdpida de 400 cpa o major.
- Unidad de cinta para backup.
Sistema operative Unix a similar.
Base de datos relacional en versldn do desarrollo.
8enddor do Red. Costo estimado pronedlo: 026,000.
Cads red consta de un servidor de alta volocidad, un disco duro do 300 megabytes, uns Improsor Moor, y va tlisetas contrladora y cables
rncesarios. Estas conexiones permitirin compartir recursos tales como Improsoras I1der. unidad de almsce ainlento on disco y software
operativo tal come base de datos, procosador de palabra. haoJ electr6nbca. etc.



DIAIIM OF CGERIV EtT HAUGtEUiT AM CONIROL STSEltS (LAW 1171)
FOR IltEKEUTATION OF PUBLIC POLiCIES, PROGlIS AJI  PROJECTS
S        AIPTRATEGIA# PLICItCT?   AATIOlt Rl DIM CISIO
I                  ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
Socfo Ecornmic      ttATIUR        Quatitatlre
Statistics         ACIMTS        Inforatlon-
Ecology. Public
opinins. quatity
of life, etc.
GOWE NEMT STRATE6f
AND PtlICY  <
VI 
Sectoriel amd Regionet Plans
Moiwory            Fiscat                                                                                                                                                                    t
3   Progrm  -          Pol icy
lnstmnt Export aid                                        Ceratiors Progruuing                                                                                                               S
:>  Eqployent Plan
A
RI       b 0t _  ,_ttMaratement InEo r-
T I    S        0  ints  d CIntrnat _
us                              t                          EG                Audittf of dec lidrO
Feromit rSt  i-                                              Y
L G                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
_ ST _ l t bitities           IA O              C
Debt otw_gewent *AMAGEDENT X            I       MFt ItX                          Folt ou-p Exmina-             t   D   R |
Cah  Cotltect ion Forecats  _   -Awlyt lc   l ntegrat ion                        tions of Audit                                               a t {  li
*Coa_l tme   Prrwrs             Integrated Accwnting          ,Findings                                       E   I  P           I 
Buget lopteeentotlon          * operating date                                                                                  t            SXR tSi
Efsis for Cas Nwagew           * Adminitestive d5t8                                                             j tt             O It
SMa            A t
_   _   v   i t                             |                    | C   T  E r    , R ~TICt        6
PRE AID POST ITERM CMITRolS INCORPORATED INO                                                                  T               P   t
CRCUX12ATISM AD PROCEDURES Of EACH SYSTEMS                                                                I   T   T         E |
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,.                                                                                                 "1  a
O'                                 A~~~~~3 0        
Smwce: Contralorla Georal de to Rephlice de Bolivia, Vy 1991
z
z
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   n



-103
Annex 11
Page I of 6
The Training Co:n2onent
Background
1.    The  SAFCO program  (PFMO I; was  successful  in  (a)  improving budgeL
formulation, operation-programming and other organizational reforms in the
Ministry of Finance ; (b) procedural changes in budget execution and
disbursements at Treasury; (c) improvement in governmental. accounting; (d) cash
reporting ssytems in major public entities; and (e) improved internal control
procedures and auditing norms. The new norms, procedures, standards and in
general, the public financial management skills required by the SAFCO law, needed
to be created and/or upgraded througout the Ministry of Finance and the
Controller's Office and then throughout the public sector administration. This
is why PFMO I also provided 31 training courses to about 800 public servants from
about 120 public entities in (i) basic principles of the SAFCO law; (ii)
acounting ano internal control; (iii) operation-programming; (iv) internal
organization, personnel administration and procurement norms; (v) government
auditing; and (vi) principles and practice of accountability.
2.    However all the above-described training activities were delivered at a
time when the SAFCO law was not approved by Congress and without having the
corresponding description of how it would be translated in entity-related
procedures and norms and }!ow '.t would be enforced. Since the law has been
approved in July 1990 and the proposed PFMO II is aimed at helping strengthen the
installation of SAFCO law princirles and define how they would be practically
implemented and enforced throughout the public administration, that is including
decentralized and lccal levels, an extensive training program has been designed
and included in PFMO II to address precisely these needs as described below.
Attachment 1 provi-es detailed information on courses supported by the proposed
project.
Training Component Justification and Obiectives
3.    New administration and government control systems as spelled out by the
SAFCO law, require the generation of professional and technical personnel for
their understanding, dissemination, practical implenmentation and enforcement.
Indeed, the lack of qualified public financial management staff at all levels of
the administration, is the main bottleneck to the immediate implementation of the
SAFCO law and its enforcement at all levels of the public administration. The
training program defined below is a sine qua non condition to the implementation
of new public financial management procedures and accountability procedures.
4.    The training component has four major objectives: (a) produce updated and
more detailed text books and didactic aids, instructor guides for programmed
instruction to be used in all training activities included in this component; (b)
instructor training to ensure program sustainability; (c) basic training for
Controller Office's. central administration's and other public entities' staff



Annex 11
-104-                         Page 2 of 6
involved in implementing the SAFCO law, one way or another; and (d) strengthening
hLgher-level staff in the Controller's Office and in the central administration
through the generation of masters in public financial management using
International standards to guaranty the quality and objectivity of external
auditing.
Training Activities
5.    Trainin2 Comnonent Management (USS312.000). The specialized nature and
scope of the training component and the need for constant updating and
supervision of activities, as well as the management of the delivery system and
the evaluation of impacts for follow up, make it necessary to include a high-
level management system and procedures. The ultimate objective of the training
component management is to ensure that the generated flow of high- and mid-level
of public financial managers is sufficient, of good quality and following the
pace required by the effective implementation of the SAFCO law so as to achieve
the intended new administrative and government control systems. This specific
management capacity is to be maintained throughout the duration of the proposed
project.
6.    Review of the Basic Training Cycle (USS660.000).        Both the content and
formats of the new administrative and government control systems as they result
from the approved law, require updating and modifications of the basic training
courses as defined and delivered during the duration of PFMO I. Changes will
affect both the curricula and instructors' profiles and skills. Besides, text-
books and other didactic aids, require uniformity under new contents and
standards to ensure training activities based on programmed-instruction
techniques.
7.    Delivery of Basic Cycle Courses (USSl.44m).      All participants to any
course must have approved a one-week course (Course Code: C-I) on SAFCO law basic
principles to ensure common understanding and information about what the law is
and on what accountability principles it is based. The concepts of public
administration and government control are also explained in details in this
course. It is expected that about 2,800        participants will be enrolled in
this course, including managers, professionals and other mid-level staff holding
financial and non-financial positions throughout the public admininstration
(about 1.62 of the total number of 180,000 public servants in Bolivia).
8.    About 120 specialized courses would be offered to 530
financial management staff from about 30 central administration entities and 40
other entities on: integrated accounting systems and techniques (Course C-II-A);
computerized accounting systems (Course C-III-A); administrative organization
(Course C-IV); operation programming, financial administration and management
information systems (Course C-V-A); and public functions accountability
principles and practices (Course C-VII-B). These entities' audit personnel would
also participate in the above courses.
9.    About 70 specialized courses to atout 150 participants, lawyers in CGR and
the central administration and personnel from 35 major entites including
engineers and other specialists to enable them all to participate in
multidisciplinary audit work. Courses would address topics such as financial
2



Annex 11
-105-                                Page 3 of 6
statements and public integrated accounting systems (Course C-II-B); automated
data processing (Course C-III-B); operation programming and management
information systems (Course C-V-B); public sector responsibility/accountability
and the procurement of goods and services (Course C-VII-A); and government audit
principles (Course C-VI-B).
10.   Master DeRree in Public Accounting and Financial Management and Control
(US$800,0Q0). To enable the Ministry of Finance and the Controller General's
Office in particular and other public entities in general, to hire competent
higher-level staff for making the SAFCO Law actually work and yield expected
benefits, Bolivia needs to entice Universities to get prepared to produce them
as soon as possible. This component input is key tc the sustainability of overall
project benefits. A master program would be designed by a foreign university in
cooperation with one or two Bolivian universities. This program would include six
periods of four months each and would feature state-of-the-art public accounting
and government auditing within the spirit of the SAFCO Law which seeks to develop
accountability principles. It is expected that by the end of project
implementation, at least two Bolivian universities would be able to practically
launch the actual delivery of the master program, for which further financial
assistance will be sought by GOB since there are no Bolivian professors in the
corresponding subject matters.
(Attachment 2 provides detailed information about this Master curriculum and
Attachment 3 about detailed costs).
Others Inputs
11.   The Training Compnent would finally help upgrade and complement the
Training Center of La Paz and four more class rooms in two regions 3o as to
decentralize somehow the delivery system. In LaPaz, the Training Center
auditorium and the cafeteria would be upgraded and in the regions the classrooms
would be furnished. In addition, a technical library would be created in CGR with
initial 3000 technical volumes. Total cost of this part of the Component is
estimated at US$360,000.
3



-106-                                Annex 11
Page 4 of 6
Attachment 1
Training Component
Courses Contents and Costs
Instructors  Didactic Refreshmients  rTV      Reserve  Total    Paptici- Unit Cost Duration
Aids                                               pants  particip./ In weeks
course
Course C-I                                                                                                     I
(Basic Introduction)
1991       8480       28000        5000                4620    48000       1000       48
1992      12971       38400        6500                 6529    62400      1300       48
1993       6000       14000        2600                 8000    24500       500       49
Course C-II-A                                                                                                  9
(Fin.Statements)
1991      15648        3840        7200                 2112    28800       180      180
1992      39els        81e0       16300                 3817    88890       340      197
1993      28680        6904       11070                 4189    49843       246      202
Course C-II-B                                                                                                  6
(Integrat.Account.)
1991       8876        2880        8000      31600     5185    49440        120      412
1992      10470        3578        3726                 1003    18774       149      128
1993       1335         456         475                  128     2392        19      126
Course C-III-A                                                                                                 6
(Comput.Account.)
1991      10484        2952        8076      82288     6384    64143        123      440
1992      39822        8788        7060      74026    12298   139783        282      498
1993      30328        6184        6400      5e700     9627   107139        218      498
Course C-III-B                                                                                                4
(Data pr.automation)
1991       8928        2840        2200      23100      3912    40780       110      371
1992      13999        2884        8004                  824    20711       120      138
1993       6009        1032        1076                  377     7493        43      174
Course C-IV                                                                                                   e
(Admin.Organiz.)
1992      62789        9022       11277                 1679    74847       378      199
1993      38310        8820        8060                 1453    64433       273      199
Course C-V-A                                                                                                   6
(Operation Program.)
1991      14560        4392        4675      48038      7981    79638       183      436
1992      24050        4483        4860      48819      7887    89889       188      483
1993      10800        1988        2060      21617      3668    39893        82      484
Course C-V-8                                                                                                   4
(Fin.Admin.)
1992      11732        2402        2603                  887    17324       100      173
1993      11849        2378        2476                  680    17180        99      173
Course C-VI-A                                                                                                  9
(Govern.Auditing)
1991      20962        3848        8840      71820    11623   114783        162      756
1992      15907        1392        2810      27406      4218    61530        68      888
Course C-VI-B                                                                                                  6
(Gov.Aud.Principles)
1992       8799        1848        1926                  528    13100        77      170
1993      11018        2472        2576                  378    18441       103      169
Course C-VII-A                                                                                                 6
(Accountability/Contracts)
1992       7329         984        1025      10783      1788    21889        41      634
1993       6200         e84         900       9460      1670    18984        3e      527
Course C-VII-B 8
(Accountability Principles)
1992       9878        6962        3720      39080      6822    65430       248      284
1993       7880        3884        2416      26358      2996    42493       181      264



-107-                   Annex 11
Page 5 of 6
Attachment 2
Master Degree in Public Accounting
and Financial Management and Control
Curriculum Structure
Accounting     Systems         Calculus   Social
Auditing
4-Month
Periods
I    Vocabulary &   Computing       Refresher  Social
Writing                                   Analysis
II   Accounting I  Accounting I  Advanced   Economics I
Calculus
III  Accounting II  Administrative Statistics Economics II
Systems        & Sampling
IV   Financial      Project imple- Market      Hum. Res.
Management     mentation      Analysis   Dev. Mangt.
V    Auditing       Management      Strategic  Strategic
Info.Syst.     Planning   Planning
VI   Govern.Admin.  Commercial      One entity One entity
& Control      Law            auditing   auditing
4



-108-                     Annex 11
Page 6 of 6
Attachment 3
Master Dearee in Public Accounting
and Financial Management and Control
Detailed Costs
International Number of       Trips     Man/Month       Total
Consultants   Subject
Matters
(l)Supervisor       4               4          12.5
(Acc./Audit)
(2)Management       2               1           5
Systems
(3)Administr.       2               1           5
Systems
(4)Statistics/      2               1           5
Sampling
(5)Soc.Analysis      2              1           5
& Hum.Res.Dev.
(6)Fin.Admin.&       3              2           7.5
Strat.planning
Consultants Costs
(US$6,300 monthly +
US$40 a day=US$7,500)
International Cons.                            40        300,000
National professors
(7x3=21x3,000)                                            63,000
12 Support Professors
being trained (US$1,500)                       40          60,000
Equipment/Copying                                        150,000
Travel/Insurance                     10                    25,000
Administrative Support(6%)                                 36,000
Universities(Overhead)                                    76,000
710,000
Contingency                                90,000
800,000
======
5



-109-
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 5
THE GOVERNMENT AUDIT COMPONENT
Background
In the late 1920's the Kimmerer Commission visited Bolivia and was responsible
for various improvements in the area of financial management, including the
creation of the Comptroller General's Office and the Central Bank, among other
institutions. The financial management and control system implanted was in the
new (1921) US model of the GAO; however, it included many aspects of the prior
customs inherited from Spain.
During the 1960's and early seventies AID provided technical assistance financial
management to Bolivia and financed the construction of the building for the
Comptroller General's Office (CGO). A new accounting system was set up under
responsibility of the Finance Ministry, and a professional approach to auditing
was introdu1.ed in the CGO through an intensive nine month training program
offered over several years for the audit staff. New decree-legislation set forth
modern accounting principles and standards, a new structure for the CGO and a
"National System of Control".   Unfortunately, the legislation attempted to
combine the old and new systems and ultimately the former prevailed.
By early 1983 when efforts were again made to assess and improve the situation
the accounting system had completely collapsed and only a handful of the
previously trained auditors remained in the CGO. The country's economic collapse
and low government salaries had forced almost all competent staff to flee to the
private sector.
The SAFCO Project which had been originally foreseen to cover at least five to
ten years was reduced to less than three years when finally funded. Therefore
much remains to be done. The ILACO Project would extend the financial management
improvement efforts another 2 1/2 years which is not sufficient time to
institutionalize the reforms and assure against, as in the late 1970's, another
period of deterioration of Bolivian financial management.  Therefore a third
phase must also be contemplated.
SAFCO ACCOMPLISHMENTS IN AUDIT
The nature of auditing is such that it is dependent upon at least some sort of
functioning financial management and internal control systems. In Bolivia, since
all of these had collapsed it was necessary to begin to organize accounting,
budgeting and treasury functions before audit could be of much use. The delay
in the approval of the SAFCO Law until July, 1990 postponed the whole process.
On the other hand the major accomplishment is the law itself, something few other
countries have been able to produce.
During the period while the law was being considered the CGO, with SAFCO
advisers' assistance prepared drafts of internal control and auditing standards
and other provisions which now need only to be compatibilized with the final
version of the law to be issued and applied. Training in accounting and auditing
also went forward. Though only 29 auditors have received basic training thus
far, many CGO staff members have received basic training in accounting and are



-110-                      Annex 12
Page 2 of 5
ready to receive basic auditing training.
The most important achievement has been the elimination of functions incompatible
with auditing from the CGO's duties, especially the precontrol and approval of
disbursements. A compromised and corrupted supreme audit institution has now
been supplanted by an independently managed and financed institution with the
potential at last to perform independent professional audits in the public sector
and assure that audits performed by others also meet appropriate standards of
quality, professionalism and independence.  That potential will be developed
during the execution of PFMO II. Now with a legal framework in place and many
of the regulations and standards necessary to implement it in draft form, CGO is
poised to become an independent and professional auditor of the public sector.
THE PFMO II AUDIT COMPONENT
The audit component of PFMO II will consist of 233 person/months of international
consultants plus 554 person/months of locally hired professionals, about one-half
of whom will be at the senior level and the remainder at the intermediate level.
Total cost is $5.3m including $.4m in equipment.   These resources will be
directed to building upon the foundation laid in PFMO I to establish a CGO audit
staff with a strong financial audit capability and to initiate efforts to gain
proficiency in operational and investigatory auditing.
Central Policy and Planninn for Government Audit
Almost all successful Supreme Audit Institutions have one central unit which is
in effect the "brains" of the organization. This unit provides the technical and
methodological know how to carry out the professional audit function assuring
that it meets the highest standards. CGR has never had such a unit. Perhaps the
most important aspect of PFMO II so far as audit is concerned will be the
creation and staffing of the new CGR Technical and Programming Office (TPO). The
TPO must be staffed by the best young technicians available in Bolivia in
professional accountancy and audit who will under the guidance of international
consultants develop the entire technical and methodological framework for
internal control and audit for the GOB.
TPO's work covers two major areas: the internal framework and working of the CGR
itself, and the external framework and design of what the SAFCO law calls the
"Internal Control and Audit System" which is to be "implanted under its (CGR's)
direction and supervision." Specific legal duties of the CGR which TPO will
carry out include the issuance of "basic standards for internal control and
external audit" and the regulations under article 5 of the law governing
financial reporting and audit of non-public sector entities which handle public
resources. Perhaps even more importantly TPO will provide the technical guidance
in the form of regulations, manuals, guidelines, and similar instruments for
almost everything that CGR does. These will include the internal operational and
organizational manuals and instructions of the CGR itself instrumenting the
administrative systems called for by the SAFCO law (operations programming,
administrative organization, budgeting, personnel management, acquisitions and
supply management, treasury management, accounting, and internal audit)
incorporating the appropriate provisions to insure internal control.   Also
included will be the provisions governing the CGR's staff performance appraisal
and professional and career  development.  These documents must be carefully
prepared so that they may serve as examples for sxmilar internal provisions in



-111-                     Annex 12
Page 3 of 5
other entities of the public sector.
Technical documents which TPO will develop in addition to the basic internal
control and audit standards applicable throughout the public sector will include
administrative instructions for all types of audits, regulations for selecting
and contracting private auditing firms to perform audits in the public sector,
regulations regarding the entire staff training program, the follow up system for
contracts,  legal proces_es and other legal matters,  the framework for the
development of the annual audit plan by the CGR and the internal audit units
throughout the government and their integration into a single coordinated audit
effort, the audit quality control review methodology and system and the audit
recommendation follow up svstem. Many of the foregoing will require personal
computer based data processing systems design and implementation in collaboration
with outside experts provided to get these systems going.
On an annual basis TPO will be responsible for the preparation of the annual
audit plan and its presentation to the Comptroller Ceneral for approval, for
compiling and integrating the annual internal audit plans, for operating the
various follow up systems and for the selection and contracting of private
auditing firms when considered necessary. It will also periodically update all
existing standards, manuals and other documentation and must be prepared to
provide advisory assistance to the staff of the CGR and to the various public
entities in all the areas of its activity.   Clearly TPO will be the most
important technical organ of the CCR and its development must be carefully
planned and implemented.
Establishment of Audit Operations Units
The principal purpose for existence of CGR is to perform government audits.
Therefore the larger part of its staff must consist of qualified,  trained
government auditors organized in such a way as to be able to carry out the field
audit operations necessary to fulfill CGR's mission.   PFMO II will assist CGR
in setting up, staffing and training its professional audit staff which will be
under the direction of the new Deputy Comptroller for Audit Operations (DC/AO)
who will report to the Deputy Comptroller General (DCG). Initially three audit
departments will be set up under the DC/AO. They are to be the Departments of
Audit of (1) Public Corporations and Services, (2) Social Services and Local
Governments,  and  (3) Remainder of the Central Government and Departmental
Governments.    In addition  the DC/AO will provide  support  for the three
decentralized audit units serving government departments.
As auditors graduate from the specialized basic audit training course they will
be assigned to perform audits as team members in one of the three audit
departments or decentralized units. The major problem that these units will face
will be the provision of adequate experienced supervision in professional audit
for the newly trained auditors. It is unlikely that CGR will be able to recruit
for its own staff auditors who already have such experience. Therefore a key
role of PFMO II will be to contract at least four experienced Latin American
audit managers with extensive professional audit supervisory experience to
provide such supervision until CGR's own best auditors, based on evaluated
performance, can be promoted to auuit manager posts.
These individuals will provide the necessary on-the-job training and supervision
to complement the theoretical formation the staff auditors have received in the
classroom. They will also provide quality control over the audit field work and



-112-                        Annex 12
Page 4 of 5
resultant reports. As the audits staff grows their work will tecome more complex
as they must select the audit team leaders and future supervisors and audit
managers based upon the performance of the new auditors.
Another key department which will report directly to the Deputy Comptroller
General (DCG) will deal with the development of administrative and internal
control systems of public sector entities to facilitate the implementation of the
SAFCO law by them.  Due to the lack of elemental administrative and internal
control systems in the majority of the public entities, during the first years
of the execution of the ILACO Project the CGR must give special emphasis to the
evaluation of adminlstrative and management information systems and the internal
controls incorporated within them including the establishment, planning and
operation of internal audit units. The results of this departments analyses and
strengthening of administrative and control systems of public entities will
provide feedback for the planning of the financial and compliance audits in the
public sector which must, of course, be directed to areas of greatest
vulnerability to risk and least existing controls over significant amounts of
resources.
The DCG will also need to develop the capability to supervise the selection,
contracting and execution of six special examinations to be performed by
auditing/consulting firms financed under PFMO II.   These examinations will
involve specifically identified activities and/or operations of six of the GOB's
largest and most complex public corporations.   They will require a level of
expertise not available normally in the country and their finding and conclusions
could be controversial. Therefore the entire contracting and execution process
must be carefully carried out to assure that the work achieves the degree of
objectivity and independence of criteria expected of the audit function. CGR
staff auditors will participate with the contr"cted firm staff in carrying out
these examinations in order to gain experience in broader scope examinations so
that eventually CGR may develop an ability to perform operational audits in the
public sector.
Legal and Investigatory Support for the Audit Function
The Deputy Comptroller for Legal Services (DC/LS) will play a major role in all
efforts carried out by CGR due to the legal compliance aspects inherent to all
state functions and activities. An extremely important new legal responsibility
of the DC/LS under the SAFCO law is the drafting of the regulations covering
accountability by any party over any resources received from the GOB.  This
involves not only the application of such resources but also the effective
results produced from their use. As a means to determine the content of these
regulations a seminar on legal and technical ethics will be held early in the
project. DC/LS must also draft the new law to set up the Administrative Law
Court which will replace the former CGR judicial function of judging accounts in
the tradition of the old courts of accounts, an antiquated process completely
eliminated by the SAFCO law. Once this court is set up all legal files of CGR
relating to its former judicial functions must be transferred to it. PFMO II
will also assist the DC/LS in developing a computerized administrative law data
base both for purposes of general reference and in order to facilitate
appropriate updating and improvement.
Three legal departments will be established under DC/LS: (1) legal analysis, to
provide legal support for the audit function including making available lawyers



-113-                      Annex 12
Page 5 of 5
to perform field work along with auditors where considered necessary; (2) legal
process acceleration, to provide for follow up and acceleration of the unduly
slow legal actions which follow the audit process and make it effective; and (3)
"complementary examinations", a term used to describe the criminal investigatory
process which often results from the auditors' findings and requires evidence
gathering techniques beyond those customarily applied by auditors.  For this
latter function an elite group of "auditor/investigators" must be selected and
trained in investigatory audit techniques. This group must be given on-the-job
training in fraud auditing, criminal law and the investigation of the variety
types of "white collar" crimes which typify government operations.
The legal analysis department will provide legal research and analysis to support
the legal counsel provided to une CG and his entire staff including especially
legal support for the audit staff. This unit will review audit findings for
their legal implications and advise regarding their further pursuit.
The department charged with accelerating legal processes will determine the
status and provide follow up on all CGR generated legal processes making sure
that those legal officers responsible in the ministries and other entities
provide prompt action where necessary. Failures to assure prompt processing will
be duly reported and corrective actions taken.
Complete Electronic Eguipping of CGR
The computer equipment necessary to provide support for the audit function will
be completed by PFMO II through acquisition of additional mini and microcomputers
and printers.
The End Product - A Professional Audit CaRabilitv
All of the foregoing including, as well, the training of the CGR audit staff is
directed toward the very important goal of developing and maintaining a
professional audit capability within CGR.  This is essential to maintain the
discipline in the public sector demanded by the SAFCO law.   The diversity,
complexity and magnitude of the modern State requires that the audit process be
oriented initially to the weaknesses detected in the administrative functions so
as to establish or strengthen the internal controls which must be a part of these
procedures and assure the validity and credibility of the information produced
and the analysis and use by management of such data. It is no longer sufficient
that government audit establish only legal compliance and arithmetical accuracy.
To improve government operations , the audit of management systems and the
results they produce should provide feedback into the decision making process,
the strengthening of implementation tools and the qualitative improvement of the
information generated.
The scope of GOB audit must be gradually broadened to include operational or
comprehensive audit of major public entities on a cyclical basis at the same time
that the breadth of government audit is expanded to provide for competent
internal audit units providing more systematic, timely and complete audit
coverage than CGR can ever achieve. Much of this expansion will be beyond the
time frame and capability of PFMO II; however, the groundwork is being laid by
PFMO II to eventually provide for comprehensive, professional, and independent
audit of the affairs and resources furnished by the Bolivian taxpayers.



*1
|SI      tqWtroPT  r |1II   S9A  lr 
91-9i   929s
S                                                      
Atiist.i                                                                                |i- | It el i
rIr I9Z ni-                                                                            9t 9 
..cntt Rmgq  | .wU                                      do iline   Sltn                           1  w  1 9  G@" t£clit*    Idi'C   in!  Ad11 |~SI.                        914               9Z|9        i      9F9G
|   . N..9t r  |      9t 193                                  19          ut               t9    934  AIf  9?            9t. 95 91                                                                                           .
92-96
|   .,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ao
S_cl; ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~kP Ia *ilo                                                                    Sie tedi                                                                                         92rn  nl  r
fta. N.I.-.  91 ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ 9-9                                                          9 9
C~~"*         :,y .1       .tr445w Fccincln    96,, Sr,c.                                                                     Im                    SW'CCA.. Oftuml
9-96 ff93                           93.96                 . t    t92  ||t                                                          It
92 9 1         92-9S         9295
i-
it>
DtD
ncX
5-
(D 
rt



Annex 13
-115-                      Page 1 of 6
ANNEX 13
THE ACCOUNTING COMPONENT
1.   The accounting component includes three basic sub-components that
together aim at disseminating and implementing the integrated information
system (budgeting, treasury/public credit, and accounting), specifically
accounting standards and procedures, government-wide. This is to be
accomplished by focussing on three different groups: a) 14 representative
models for their further dissemination to 116 entities; b) those entities that
are noc part of the representative sample nor adhere to similar
characteristics or needs as those in part a); and c) those smaller less
complex entities in local or regional governments.
A. The 14 Models
2.   The effort for the 14 representative entities will consists of:
a) converting the current information system used in the central
administration for accounting and treasury disbursements (budget
execution) to an open version applicable to microcomputers. This will
involve the conversion of the PACE software, currently used for
consolidation purposes, to a transportable software technology for
decentralized institutions who are expected to have only microcomputer
equipment available. This activity is estimated to require 6 months of
international expert and 12 of national consultants at a cost of US$
66,000. Note that once this activity is performed, it is applicable to
all 14 entities selected, that is, it is done only once;
b) analyzing the existing procedures and systems of accounting,
budgeting and treasury in each entity;
c) develop specific procedures, drawing from existing manuals and
procedures (Accounting Manual for the Central Administration, Accounting
Manual for the Decentralized Irnstitutions, and the Budgeting Manual) for
each entity;
d) adapt the account classification and software to the needs of the
entity;
e) formulate specific Drocedures and administrative guidelines for the
managing of accounting, budgeting and treasury systems;
f) implement systems in each entity and supervise their adoption;
For activities b-f, an estimated an average of US$43,750 per entity was
calculated, taking into account economies of scale (an original US$ 85,000
unit cost was calculated).  An average of 4 m/m of an international financial
specialist and 8 m/m of national systems analyst and financial specialist to
help implement new procedures and to adapt software and accounts. (US$525,000
total).



Ann.x 13
-116-                          Page 2 of 6
3,   The 14 entities chosen are based on the following criteria: a) their
transferability to other entities of similar nature, b) the importance of the
public service rendered, c) the amount of resources administered, and d) their
representation in various regions, facilitating the decentralization process.
The list is as follows:
One Perfectura, or political head of the Departmental Government and the
representative of the Executive Branch in each Department. This is
applicable to eight other perfecturas (9 in total);
Two Regional Development Corporations (RDCs), one large (Santa Cruz) and
one small one (Oruro). RDCs currently are responsible for
infrastructure as well as the promotion of agricultural and industrial
projects. They have been chosen due to the magnitude of resources
managed from petroleum royalties. One RDC is in an agricultural region
and the other in a mining, small farmer region. These two are
transferable to seven other RDCs (9 in total);
The National Road Service. This decentralized institution reports to
the Ministry of Transportation, and funds itself with its own resources,
TGN contributions, and external donations targeted for civil works.
While there is only one such entity nation-wide, it has representative
entities in each Department (1 in total);
The National Service for Community Development. This entity is dedicated
to rural construction of roads, small schools, sanitary posts, and
potable water works (1 in total);
Two HosRitals (La Paz and Trinidad) that provide medical care to the
general public. These two (again one large and one small) are
representative of numerous hospitals around the nation. Hospital
General de la Paz is transferable to 12 similar hospitals and Hospital
General de Trinidad is transferable to 15 (27 in total);
One Departmental Committee for SRorts Facilities. This entity is
responsible for the promotion and construction of sports facilities in
each department. It is regionally administered aid funds itself with
its own resources. There are 9 similar committee nation-wide (9 total);
One Departmental Institute for Sports Activities. This institution
manages all sports activities and resources developed or constructed by
the Committee. The development of sports activities is a priority of
the government as a major deterrent for drug addiction and alcoholism in
the Bolivian youth. There are 9 similar institutions nation-wide (9
total);
One University. There are 9 similar universities throughout the
country, dedicated to higher level education, research activities, and
extension (9 total);
Two MuniciRalities (Santa Cruz and Pando). These are representative of
10 similar municipalities nation-wide, 5 large and 5 small. They are
the local government representatives of cities and small towns. (10
total);



-117-                         Annex 13
Page 3 of 6
In addition, two social security institutions were chosen:
i) Fondo de Pensiones de la Administracion Publica, one pens1.n fund for
the public sector workers that are covered by the "Ley de ia Carrera
Administrativa" rather than the General Labor Law, and
ii) Fondo de Pensiones de la Caja Nacional de Salud, one pension fund
for public sector workers covered by the General Labor Law and
affiliated to the Caja National de Salud. Its method of income
registration, organization and contribution are quite different from L).
The fund is representative of 30 funds such as the bank workers fund,
the petroleum workers fund, the university workers funds and the
military fund. (30 total).
The development of accounting systems, budgeting and treasury systems in the
above two institutions will require more resources as their accounting is more
complex. An estimated US$ 140,000 for each (US$280,000 total).
B. 108 non-representative entities
4.   Of a total of 238 decentralized enitiesl apart from the central
administration, 64 are public enterprises and 174 are decentralized
institutions. Of the 174 decentralized institutions, 116 are covered in the
above point, however, 58 can not easily adapt the central administration's
systems. In addition, of the 64 public enterprises, it is estimated that 14
can finance the development of their own accounting systems (see attached
list), thereby leaving 50 unattended.
5.   For these 108 institutions, 58 decentralized institutions and 50 public
enterprises, the General Accounting Office (GAO) will disseminate accounting
principles and procedures outlined in the "Accounting Manual for Decentralized
Institutions". This work is less vigorous than the 14 models above, since no
integrated system will be developed, nor made compatible with budgeting and
treasury procedures. However, the work is supervision-intensive as there are
108 to cover. It is estimated that the activity will require: in year one, 20
m/m of international financial specialist (two, one for decentralized
institutions and the other for public enterprises) and 40 m/m of local
specilist to support the dissemination; in year two, 24 m/m of the
international specialists and 48 m/m of national specialist; and in year
three, 2 m/m of inter. specialist and 8 m/m of local specialists. A total cost
of US$ 483,200 is estimated for this activity.
C. Smaller Less Comglex Regional Entities
6.   The regional public entities are further divided into provinces,
sections and cantons. Each of these provinces has a sub-perfect and each
section has a municipality, a sanitary post, at least one educational
facility, one sports facility and at least one entity representing MACA. For
example, the La Paz Department has 19 provinces and 66 sections.
I/ Note that this number differs from the number of decentralized institutions
that currently present budget submission (135).



Annex 13
-118-                          Page 4 of 6
7.   A sample group for these entities was selected.  This group consists of:
2 municipalities, 2 hospitals, 2 education centers, 2 sports facilities, and 2
entities representing MACA per Department. If these entities are then used to
disseminate financial administration systems to the other 8 Departments, 90
entities would be covered by this effort.
8.   This effort basically consists of the establishment and implementation
of simplied budgeting, treasury and accounting procedures. The objective is
to give these smaller entities the basic tools and standards for sound
financial management. This will in most cases not involve computerized
processing of their financial information, but it is expected that whatever
information produced will eventually feed into the GAO.
Attached:
1. List of the public enterprises that are able to finance their own
accounting systems.
2. Composition of the Non-Financial Public Sector. Note that 7.3.1 and
7.3.2 refe: to activity 1 above, and 7.2 refers to activity 2.



-119-                           Annex 13
Page 5 of 6
1. LIST OF PUBLIC ENTERPRISES THAT CAN FINANCE THEIR OWN ACCOUNTING SYSTEMS:
1. YACIMIENTOS PETROLIFEROS FISCALES BOLIVIANOS               YPFB
2.  EMPRESA NACIONAL DE TELECOMUNICACIONES                    ENTEL
3.  EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD                          ENDE
4.  CORPORACION MINERA DE BOLIVIA                             COMIBOL
5.  FABRICA NACIONAL DE CEMENTO                               FANCESA
6.  EMPRESA NACIONAL DE FERROCARRILES                         ENFE
7.  LLOYD AEREO BOLIVIANO                                     LAB
8.  ADMINISTRACION AUTONOMA DE SERVICIOS AUXILIARES           AASANA
9.  EMPRESA METALORGICA SUBSIDIARIA VINTO                     VINTO
10. ADMINISTRACION AUTONOMA DE ALMACENES ADUANEROS            AADAA
11. SERVICIO AUTONOMO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO        SAMAPA
12. FABRICA DE ACIETES VILLAMONTES
13. INGENIO AZUCARERO BERMEJO
14. PLANTA INDUSTRIALIZADORA DE LECHE                         PIL LA PAZ



l120I                                            Annex  13
ij'1IIVI,I,jA4iyVURUEL   IiECTUH   PUIJI. I CU                                  Page 6 of 6
(Except.o Administraoion CerntraI
w sEL  relacion con  la matriz)
7.3  .1
7 .3 .2            I I t
Lniti tuoiones
esoentralizadas
£74
7.2 -59 Institeticonps
no   comp)rpnd1i dasn
hvganentra1azn'da  .g                                                                     ate~irtru
U   i:.qpvue sa^s   IP tbltToau                                                                        o     el.wr't  
Fon capan i dad de
tnasuol ar sus
SisteMas - 14
64~~~~~~~
7.2 - 5S  FMp.PtuhbI inAs
ACTIVIDADES DE LA NItTIS              Difusiun g Desarrollo
7.3.1  V  7.3.2                       Compronderan      116 lnstitueiones
7.t                                   Coapronderan       So Instituciones
Comprunderad      50 Emprtsas Ptblicas
Butotimanoiaeon  14 F'ptesas Publicas
IP nano nire 2 3 B
rF eradro anterio. reftija Ia nagnnitqiI de ' diAusion v desarrollo de la Conta5ilidad Intwera4a1 O lol
R*eitaks do Presauntesto g Irtovrria on las Instilticions del Sector Publico no Financiern, e'cltiidas
law evatidA4.  d4  Is fidWi0trarlon Central.
WO*O6 .*
I &



-121-
Annex 14
Page 1 of 16
GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA
LAW OF GOVERNMENTAL MANAGEMENT
CONTROL AND AUDIT
Law No. 1178 of July 30, 1990
Jaime Paz Zamo*a
Constitutional President
of the Republic
THE NATIONAL CONGRESS
HEREBY DECREES:
THE LAW OF GOVERNMENTAL MANAGEMENT
CONTROL AND AUDIT
CHAPTER I
PURPOSE AND SCOPE OF APPLICATION
Article 1. This law regulates the Management and Control systems for State
resources and their relationship to the national Planning and Public Investment
systems in order to:
a)    Program,  organize,  execute,  ad control  the effective and efficient
collection and use of public resources for the fulfillment and timely
adjustment of Public Sector policies, programs, services and projects.
b)    Make available useful, timely and reliable information, ensaring fair
presentation of financial statements and reports.
c)    Assure that  regardless of rank,  every public  servant  assumes full
responsibility for their acts and is accountable not only for achieving
the objectives for which public resources were placed in their custody but
also for the means and results of their usage.
d)    Develop the administrative capacity to prevent, or disclose and prove
improper use of State resoturces



-122-
Annex 14
Page 2 of 16
Article 2. The systems regulated by this law are:
a)    For programming and organizing activities:
-   Operations Programming
-   Administrative Organization
-   Budgeting
b)    For implementing programmed activities:
-   Personnel Management
-   Acquisitions and Supply Management
-   Treasury and Public Credit Management
-   Accounting
c)    For controlling the management of the Public Sector:
-   Internal Control and Audit
Article 3. Managerial and control systems shall be established in all public
sector entities, without exception. These are defines as the Presidency and Vice
Presidency of the Republic, the Ministries, the office of the Comptroller
General, the Electoral Tribunals, the Bolivian Central Bank, the Superintendency
of Banks and Insurance, the Development Corporations, the State financial
intermediaries, the Armed Forces, the National Police, the Departmental
Governments, the Universities and the Municipalities, all institutions,
organizations and enterprises belonging to national, departmental an local
governments, and every other legal person or entity in which the State is a
majority equity owner.
Article 4. The administrative units of the Legislative and Judicial branches
shall be subject to this law, in accordance with their own objectives, plans and
policies, within the framework of their independence and the coordination of the
branches of government.
Article 5. Any entity not included in Article 3 and 4, whatever its legal
nature, which receives resources from the State for investment or operation,
benefits from subsidies, advantages or exemptions, or which provided public
services not subject to free competition, pursuant to the regulations and subject
to exceptions in the amounts such regulations may determine, shall report to the
designated public entity, on the use, means and results of the management of such
resources and public privileges, and shall submit to it duly audited financial
statements. in addition other qualified and independent opinions may be required
concerning the effectiveness of some or all managerial and control systems in
operations.



-123-                          Annex 14
Page 3 of 16
CHAPTER II
MANAGERIAL CONTROL AND AUDIT SYSTEMS
Article 6. The Operations Programming system shall define strategic objectives
and plans for each entity, in conformity with plans and policies generated by the
National Planning System, in the form of concrete results to be achieved over the
short and medium term, specific tasks to be performed, procedures to be utilized,
and the means and resources to be used, all of this in function of time and
space.    Such programming will be of comprehensive  nature,  including the
functional operations and preinvestment and investment implementation.   The
investment programming precess shall correspond to projects in conformity with
sectoral and regional policies in accordance with the National Public Investment
System.
Article 7.  The Administrative Organization System shall be defined and adjusted
in terms of Operations Programming. It shall avoid duplication of objectives and
faculties through modification, merging or elimination of entities, in compliance
with the following precepts:
a)    The functions of policy making, issuance of standards, and monitoring
implementation and compliance will be centralized in the governing entity
of the sector, and policy implementation and operation of managerial
systems will be deconcentrated or decentralized.
b)    Every public entity shall organize itself internally, in terms of its
objectives and the nature of its activities applying the managerial and
internal control systems provided for by this law.
Article 8. The Budgeting System shall anticipate, in terms of government policy
priorities, the amounts and sources of financial resources for eacil fiscal year,
and their allocation to the financial requirements of the operations programming
and the administrative organization adopted. It will adhere to the following
general precepts:
a)    Government entities receiving resources from taxation, social security and
other payments, royalties or Treasury transfers, shall adjust their
expenditures tot he availability of such receipts, to loan conditions duly
contracted, and to legal budgetary limitations.   Transfer of budgeted
resources from capital investments to operations is hereby prohibited.
b)    Entities with managerial and equity autonomy, whose revenues proceed
exclusively from the sale of goods or services, shall finance their
operating expenses, their contribution to capital investment funding, and
their debt payments from such revenues. Their expenditure budgets shall
reflect their operations and capital investments.
c)    Expenditure budgets of the Central Bank and publicly owned financial
intermediaries subject to the monetary program of the Central aoverr.nent
and to monitoring by the Banking Superintendency shall reflect their



-124-
Annex 14
Page 4 of 16
operations and non-financial investments.
d)    Execution of expenditure budgets of the entities listed in paragraphs b)
and c) of this article, is subject, according to regulations to compliance
with government policies and standards related to the nature of their
activities, including those referring to amendments, transfers and
assignments within their own budgets, as well as to their effective
revenue availability after allocation and payment of their financial
obligations, reserve requirements, capital increases, taxes on net worth
and other taxes due. Transfers of amounts budgeted for capital investment
or of amounts of revenues received in excess of budget estimates for the
purpose of financing operating expenses ave hereby prohibited.
Article 9.  The Personnel Management System, seeking efficiency in public sector
management, shall determine which positions are actually necessary and the
requirewents and mechanisms for filling such positions.   it shall implement
mechanisms for evaluation and compensation for work performed, develop the skills
and aptitudes of public servants, and establish procedures' for termination of
employment.
Article 10. The Acquisitions and Supply Management System shall establish means
of contracting for, managing and disposing of goods and services.  It shall
adhere to the following precepts:
a)    Prior to processing acquisitions, ensure the availability of funds for
obligation, or define the conditions required for financing; segregate the
authority to request, authorize initiation and carry out the contracting
process; simplify processes; and identify those responsible for
contracting decisions concerning quality, timing and price competitiveness
of commodities, including the effect of payment terms.
b)    Entities shall use the goods and services contracted for the purposes
established in operations programs, and shall perform preventive
maintenance and safeguard assets, identifying those persons responsible
for their use.
c)    Regulations shall establish mechanisms for the write off or timely sale of
assets, tRking into account the specific needs of the entities which own
them. The sale of shares of jointly owned companies and the transfer or
liquidation of State enterprises shall be made only after specific or
general legal authorization and after proper public legal publication
before, during and after these operations.
Article-II. The Treasury and Public Credit Management System shall mange
revenues, financing and public credit, and shall schedule obligations,
liabilities and payments to execute the expenditure budget. It will apply the
following general precepts:
a)    All internal or external public debt with a term equal to, or greater
than, one year, shall be contracted by the governing authority of the



-125-                         Annex 14
Page 5 of 16
State Treasury System, for the account of the National Treaoury or that of
the beneAiciary entity which assumes responsibility for servicing the
respective debt.
b)    Public debt with a term of less than one year shall be contracted by each
institution aubject to the financial program established by the governing
authority of the State Treasury System.
c)    Public sector entities shall comply with the policies and standards
established by the governing authority of the State Treasury System for
the management of funds, securities and debt.
Article 12.  The Accounting System shall integrate all budget, financing and
equity transactions in a single, timely and reliable system which shall be the
repository and source of all data expressed in monetary terms.   Based on
financial and nonfinancial data it shall generate relevant and useful information
for use in decision making by central government officials and those of each
entity ensuring that:
a)    The accounting system of each entity or group of similar entities responds
to their nature and their operating and managerial requirements and
observes generally accepted accounting principles and standards.
b)    The accounting system identifies when appropriate,  the cost of State
activities and measures the results achieved.
Arrticle 13. The objective of the Internal Control and Audit System shall be to
improve (1) efficiency in the collection and use of public resources and in State
operations; (2) reliability of information generated by such resources and
operations; (3) procedures assuring that every official is held accountable for
timely performance; and (4) managerial ability to prevent, or identify and prove
improper handling of State resources.
This system shall cover the functions of all public resource managerial systems
and shall be composed of:
a)    The Internal Control  System,  which shall encompass controls  in the
organizational plan and in the regulations and procedural manuals of each
entity, and the internal audit function; and
b)    The External Audit SI3tem which shall review operations already executed.
Article 14- Internal pre-control procedures sh.all be applied by all units of the
entity prior to the execution of their operations and activities, or before their
actions take effect. These comprise verification of compliance with regulatory
standards and of supporting facts, as well as of appropriateness and timeliness
based on tha purposes and programs of the entity. The exercise of pre-control
by those responsible for internal audit, and by individuals, units or entities
different from, or external to, the unit executing the operations is hereby
prohibited. No special unit charged with the direction or centralization pre-
control shall be established.



-126-
Annex 14
Page 6 of 16
After the fact internal controls shall be exercised by:
a)    senior responsible officials, with respect to the results achieved from
operations and activities under their direct li..e of authority; and
b)    The internal audit unit.
Article 15. Internal audits shall be performed by a specialized unit of the
entity, which shall conduct the following activities separately, in combination
with, or as part of an integrated effort: evaluation of the degree of compliance
with, and the effectiveness of administrative systems, and of the internal
control processes ir.corporated within them; determination of the reliability of
financial records and statements; and analysis of the results and efficiency of
operations. The Internal Audit Unit shall not participate in any other operation
or managerial activity, and shall report to the highest executive authority
within the entity, whether it be a board or an individual. It ohall formulate
and execute its schedule of activities with full independence.
All internal audit reports shall be submitted immediately upon completion to the
highest governing board or authority, to the highest authority of the entity
having an oversight role over the entity audited, and to the Comptroller General
of the Republic.
Article 16. External audits shall be independent and impartial, and may examine
at any time the operations or activities already carried out by the entity, in
order to evaluate the effectiveness reliabili.ty of accounting and o,erational
records; provide an opinion on the reasonable presentation of financial
statements; and evaluate results on the basis of the efficiency and effectiveness
of operations. These external post audit activities may be executed separately,
in combination with, or as part of an integratad effort, and compliance with
their recommendations, after discussion and acceptance by the audited entity, is
mandatory.
CHAPTER III
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE NATIONAL PLANNING
AND CAPITAL INVESTMENT SYSTEM
Article 17. The national systems for Planning and Capital Investment shall
define government strategies and policies to be implemented through the
Management Control and Audit systems established by this law.
Article 18.  For the annual operation of systems for Operations Programming,
Administrative Organization, Budgeting, and Treasury and Public Credit Management
the national systems for Planning and Capital Investment shall conform and
integrate objectives and strategic plans of each entity, and the capital
investment projects they are to implement, with medium and long terms plans,
monetary policy, revenues received and available financing, maintaining the
unitary and integral nature of budget formulation, of the treasury and of public
credit.



-127-
Annex 14
Page 7 of 16
Article 19. The Internal Control and Audit system, besides promoting the
efficiency of administrative systems, shall evaluate the results achieved during
the year, taking into account, among other criteria, government policies defined
by the national systems for Planning and Capital Investment.
CHAPTER IV
INSTITUTIONAL ATTRIBUTIONS
Article 20. All systems provided for under this law shall be governed by an
organization responsible for their direction, whose basic functions shall be to:
a)    Issue basic standards and regulations for each system;
b)    Establish terms and conditions for preparing secondary or specialized
provisions or standards and the progressive implementation of the systems;
c)    Make compatible or evaluate, as appropriate, specific provisions prepared
by each entity or group of entities carrying out similar activities, based
on their nature and the basic standards; and
d)    Monitor the proper functioning of specific systems, whether dispersed or
decentralized, and consolidate the information generated by them.
Article 21. The governing organization of the National Systems for Planning and
Capital Investmenit is the Ministry of Planning and Coordination, which will also
assure the integration of the standards and procedures of such systems with those
of the Government Management Control and Audit Systems.   It will have the
following functions and responsibilities:
a)    Set  forth  the  medium  and  long  term  framework  for  formulation  of
operational programs and budgets for the various public entities on the
basis of guidelines on economic and social policies developed by the
Planning and Capital Investment Systems.
b)    Ensure compatibility of strategic plans and objectives of public entities
with the national strategic plans and objectives and with the Capital
Investment Plan.
c)    Elaborate, based on the continuous generation of initidtives, the Capital
Investment Plan which shall contain preinvestment and investment plans
approved at the sectoial and regional levels.
d)    Negotiate, on behalf of the State and within the framework of public
credit established by the Ministry of Finance, the granting of all
external credits, whatever their type, origin or destination. Concerning
the promotion of financing from bilateral agreements, it will have the
support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.



-128-
Annex 14
Page 8 of 16
e)    Process, with the corresponding authorities, commitments aesumed by the
State, through the Ministry of Finance, consolidating all external
funding, and underwriting bilateral agreements with the support of the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
f)    Schedule, by implementation years, the Financial Capital Investment Plan,
evaluate its execution, and keep it up to date, based on informati-n
generated by the Management and Control Systems.
Article 22. The Ministry of Finance is the fiscal authority and governing
organization of the Operations Programming, Administrative Organization, Budget,
Personnel Management, Acquisitions and Supply Management, Treasury and Public
Credit Management, and Accounting Systems. These systems are to be implemented
under the direction and supervision of the Ministry of Finance, which will
participate in the design of economic policy and will be responsible for
developing fiscal policy and public credit policy for the Government.
Article 23. The Office of the Comptroller General of the Republic is the
governing organization for the Internal Control and Audit system, which shall be
implemented under its direction and supervision. The Comptroller General of the
Republic shall issue basic standards for internal control and external audit,
shall evaluate the effectiveness of the internal control systems; shall conduct
and supervise external audits, and shall exercise the regulatory supervision of
the accounting systems of the Public Sector in the charge of the General
Accounting Office of the Ministry of Finance. It shall promote the establishment
of accounting and internal control systems, and conduct training and
specialization programs for public servants in the operation of the systems
provided for by this law.
Article 24. The Bolivian Central Bank shall be the only monetary authority in
the country, and the governing organization of any system for collection of
resources and financial intermediation.   As such, it is responsible for the
management of monetary reserves. Besides providing standards and regulations
under the legal provisions providing for the operation of such systems, it shall
propose and enter into agreements with the pertinent organizations of the
executive branch regarding monetary, banking and credit policies, ad shall
implement these independently, being authorized to deny credit to the financial
system when it exceeds the limits established under the monetary program. The
operations with the Bolivian Central Ban% only through the General Treasury of
the Nation.
Article 25. The Board of Directors of the Bolivian Central Bank shall consist
of the President of the Bank and five directors, to be designated as follows:
a)    The President of the Bolivian Central Bank shall be designated by the
President of the Republic, from a list of three candidates proposed by the
House of Representatives. He shall serve for four years and may be re-
elected. He shall perform the functions of Chairman of the Board, with
voting rights, plus a tie-breaking vote in case of a tie.
b)    Three directors to be appointed by the President of the Republic and
confirmed or rejected by the Senate. They shall serve for four years and



-129-
Annex 14
Page 9 of 16
may be reappointed for similar periods. Notwithstanding, these directors
shall be appointed for the first time starting from the date of
application of this law, for periods of one, two and three years,
respoctively, and thereafter, they may be designated for additional four-
year periods.
C)    Two directors to be appointed by the Minister of Finance ard the Minister
of Planning and Coordination to represent their Ministries, who shall be
prohibited from performing any other public duties.
d)    In case of resignation or incompetency of either the president or any of
the directors mentioned in the above paragraphs, other shall be designated
in the same manner, as provided for in this article, and they shall
exercise their functions until the end of the period initially granted,
and thereafter may be appointed to additional four-year terms.
Article 26. The Banking Superintendency is the governing organization for the
control system of the collection of public resources and financial intermediation
of the country, including the Bolivian Central Bank. For this purpose, it shall
issue standards and regulations for the internal and external audit of these
activities, and without affecting the powers of the Comptroller General of the
Republic, it shall exercise or supervise external audit, determining, and if
necessary demanding compliance with the provisions of law, technical standards,
and regulations by all public, private or joint private and state investment
entities which conduct financial intermediation activities, both on the offer and
demand side, in Bolivian territory, as well as by all legal or physical persons
conducting auxiliary activities for the financial sector. Based on the above,
it shall give an opinion on the effectiveness of the standards and regulations
issued by the Bolivian Central Bank for the operations of the systems for
financial collection and intermediation, and if necessary, it shall make specific
recommendations to the Bolivian Central Bank in this respect.
The Banking Superintendency, jointly with the Bolivian Central Bank, may
incorporate within its scope of authority other existing, or to be crated,
persons or entities which conduct financial operations whenever justified by
monetary or credit policies.
Article 27. Each public sector entity shall prepare, within the framework of the
basic standards promulgated by the governing organizations, specific regulations
for the operation of the Management and Control systems established by this law,
and the Planning and Capital Investment systems. The highest authority of the
entity shall be responsible for implementation. For this purpose:
a)    Any oversight role pertaining to one public entity with respect to
another, shall include the promotion and oversight of the implementation
and operation of the Planning and Investment and Management and Control
systems. In the case of capital investment operations programming, the
exercise of territorial competence or oversight of another entity, it
shall include the evaluation of the corresponding projects prior to their
inclusion in the Capital Investment Program.
b)    The oversight role includes the power to perform ex post evaluations



-130-                           Annex 14
Page 10 of 16
without prejudice to the powers of the Comptroller General, as well ao the
obligation to perform timely external poet audits of the entities whose
small number of operations and limited ar,ount of resources managed do not
justify their own internal audit units.
C)    Every entity, official or person collecting, receiving, paying or having
custody of funds, securities or goods belonging to the Sate, is under
obligation to account for the activities performed, through the accounting
system, providing the supporting documentation and making arrangements for
its filing.
d)    For the purposes of external post audit, entities subject to this law
shall forward to the Comptroller General a copy of their contracts and
pertinent   supportPig  documentation,   within   five  days   following
preparation.
e)    Within three  months of the end of the fiscal year, each entity with own
equity and financial autonoL.ly must deliver, on a mandatory basis, to its
governing entity and the General Accounting Office, and make available to
the Comptroller General of the Republic financial statements for the
previous year, together with explanatory notes as appropriate and the
report of the internal auditor.
f)    The highest governing board, if any, and the chief executive of each
entity, shall be responsible to the Comptroller General of the Republic
for the independence of the internal audit unit, and for its impartiality
and the professional quality of its work.
g)    The legal units of the public sector entities are responsible for the
effectiveness of compliance with obligations related to the protection of
thE interests of the State.   They must submit periodic reports to the
Comptroller General's office concerning the status of administrative
processes, payment requirements, and legal proceedings in their charge, in
accordance with the provisions of this law.
CHAPTER V
RESPONSIBILITY FOR PUBLIC FUNCTIONS
Article 28. Each public servant shall be accountable for the results achieved
during the performance of their duties and functions. For this purpose:
a)    The administrative, executive, civil and criminal responsibilities of each
individual shall be determined taking into account the results of actions
or omissions.
b)    The legality of the operations and activities performed by each public
servant is presumed unless shown to the contrary.



-131-
Annex 14
Page 11 of 16
C)    The term "publi- servant", as used in this Law, refers to dignitaries,
officials and any other person rending services as an employee of State
authoritic, regardless of the source of their remuneration.
d)    The terms "authority" and "executive" as used in this Law are synonyms,
and refer to public servants who, because of their hierarchy end
functions, are the parties primarily responsible for the management of the
entities in which they perform their duties.
Article 29. A responsibility is administrative when the action or omission
violates the juridical-administrative mechanism and the rules regulating the
behavior of public servants in the exercise of their functions. The competent
authority shall apply, according to the seriousness of the violation, penalties
varying from a fine of up to twenty percent of the monthly remuneration,
suspension of up to thirty days, or dismissal.
Article 30. A responsibility is executive when the authority or executive: (1)
fails to account as required under pSragraph c) or Article 1, and Article 28 of
this Law; (2) fails to comply with the provisions of the first paragraph and
paragraphs d), e), or f) of Article 27 of this Law; or (3) it is disclosed that
deficiencies or negligence of the executive exercise of functions are of such
significance that they will not permit achievement under existing circumstances
of reasonable results in terms of effectiveness, efficiency and effectiveness.
In such cases, the penalties provided under paragraph g) of Article 42 of this
Law shall apply.
Article 31. A responsibility is civil when the action or omission by a public
servant or by private natural or legal persons results in damage to the State in
an amount quantifiable in monetary terms. The determination thereof shall be
subject to the following precepts:
a)    The top ra zing official shall be held co-liable for authorizing improper
use of Sta 2 goods, services or resources, or where such improper use has
been made Iossible through deficiencies in managerial and internal control
systems which reasonably could have been implemented by the entity.
b)    Civil responsibility is incurred when natural or legal persons, not being
public servants, benefit unduly from public resources or are the cause of
damages to State property.
g)    When there are several persons responsible for the same actions or events
resulting in damages to State, they shall be held jointly responsible.
Article 32. The State entity ordered by a court of law to pay damages in favor
of public entities or third parties, shall claim restitution from the authority
responsible for the actions or facts which caused the penalty.
Article 33. Administrative, executive or civil responsibility shall not be
established when it is proven that a decision was made in pursuit of a greater
benefit and to safeguard property of the entity, within reasonable inherent
operational risks and according to the circumstances existing at the time of
making the decision, or when acts of God cause the decision or influence the
final results of the operations.



-132-
Annex 14
Page 12 of 16
Article 34. Responsibility is criminal when the action or omission of the public
servant or private parties falls under this definition under the Panal Code.
Article 35. When the acts or facts examined reveal indications of civil or
criminal liability, the public servant or the auditor shall report them to the
pertinent legal unit which shall petition directly, through the competent legal
authority, to the judge in charge to take all precautionary measureo in
preparation of a legal action, if justified, or shall submit a formal accusation
before the prosecuting agency.
Article 36. Every present or former public servant of any State entity and
private individuals having contractual relationships with the State, whose
accounts and contracts are subject to internal or external audit, shall submit
all documentation and information as required for further examination, and mist
submit all required copies, subject to the limitations contained in Article 51,
52, and 56 of the Commercial Code.
The authorities of public sector entities shall ensure access by former public
employees to pertinent documentation required of them for audit purposes. Those
failing to comply with the provisions of this article shall be liable according
to the penalties established in Articles 154,160, and 161 respectively of the
Penal Code.
Article 37. Internal or external audits shall not modify administrative actions
which result in adjudication of private claims, and shall be limited to
determining the responsibility of the authority which expressly authorized, or
omitted taking, proper action, if any.
Article 38. Public servants are responsible for the reports and documents they
sign. Lawyers, serving on an advisory position in the public sector, shall also
be held liable when the processing of the cause contains procedural defects, or
when the appeal or recourse presented is overruled due to formal aspects.
Article 39. The judge or court of law in charge of the case at the time of
making payment of civil damages, shall adjust the amount of the debt for
inflation, taking into account for this purpose, the parameters established by
the Bolivian Central Bank for maintenance of value of active assets in Bolivian
Central Bank for maintenance of value of active assets in Bolivian currency.
Administrative and judicial proceedings established under this Law, cannot
forego, in any of their degrees or stages, legal costs or professional fees,
which must be charged to the parties to the legal proceedings.
Article 40. Judicial actions and obligations emerging from civil liability
established under this Law shall terminate under the statute of limitations
within ten years following the date when the act which prompted the action took
place, or since the last legal action was carried out.   The term for the
application of the statute of limitations shall be suspended or interrupted in
accordance with causes and form, as set forth in the Civil Code.   For the
initiation of legal action for acts occurring before the enactment of this Law,
the statute of limitations shall be computed from the date the Law becomes
effective.



-133-
Annex 14
Page 13 of 16
CHAPTER VI
OPERATIONS OF THE OFFICE OF THE
COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE REPUBLIC
Article 41.  The Comptroller General ef the Republic shall have operational,
technical and administrative autonomy in performing external post audits.  In
order to ensure its independence and impartiality with respect to the
administration of the State, the budget of the Comptroller General's Office,
prepared  by  it and  substantiated  in  its operational  program,  shall  be
incorporated, unchanged by the Ministry of Finance within the proposed General
Budget of the Nation for consideration by the National Congress. Once approved,
the Ministry of Finance shall make disbursements required by the Comptroller
General's Office in accordance with the cash flow schedule prepared by said
office.
Article 42. For the exercise of external post audit, the Comptroller General is
hereby granted the following powers:
a)    The Comptroller may contract the services of qualified and independent
firms or professionals, or order entities of the Public Sector and persons
included in Article 5 of this Law, to contract such services, determining
the scope of the external audit to be performed, whether technical advice
or specialized external audits are required, or whether profeseional
resources necessary to implement the work are lacking.  In every case,
contracting shall be subject to the regulations which will be issued for
this purpose by the Comptroller General.
b)    Every 3iternal or external audit report shall be forwarded to the
Comptroller's Office immediately upon completion in the form and
accompanied by the documentation required by the regulations.
c)    The Comptroller General's Office shall have access to the audit programs
and work papers of public sector internal audit units and independent
professional firms without affecting their responsibilities.
d)    The Comptroller General's Office may examine at nay time the records and
operations conducted by the entities subject to its audit.
e)    In  case  of  default  of  the  terms  and  conditions  for  progressive
implementation of the required systems by any of such entities, the
Comptroller General of the Republic may order:
-     The freezing of the bank accounts of the entity;
-     The suspension of disbursements by the State Treasury of by any
financing organization
f)    In case of violation of this law by a public servant, the Comptroller
General of the Republic, as a matter of course, or through a petitLon by
the governing organizations, or other oversight bodies, may recommend to
the chief executive of the entity or a higher authority, the imposition of
the corresponding penalties in accordance with Article 29 of this law,
without prejudice to any executive, civil or criminal liabilities.



-134-
Annex 14
Page 14 of 16
g)    In case the Comptroller General establishes charges against the chief
executive officer or an entity he may recommend to the highest governing
board, provided it is not involved in the deficienciee being questioned,
and to the highest overright authority, the suspension or dismissal of the
chief executive, and if appropriate, of the entire governing board,
without prejudice to civil or criminal lidbilities, if any, reporting thee
actions to the respective commissions of the National Congress.
h)    For the cases contemplated in the last part of Article 36 of this law, the
prosecuting attorney for criminal cases shall order arraignment within
twenty four hours from the receipt of a petition from the Comptroller,
accompanied by prior warning notice, in accordance with the Penal Code and
its Procedures.
Article 43. Without prejudice to legal actions which may subsequently be
initiated by public entities against those who default on their commitments, at
the request of the entity, or as a matter of course, the Comptroller General of
the Republic, based upon audit reports, may issue an opinion on the charges in
accordance with the following precepts:
a)    The legal opinion of the Comptroller General of the Republic, and the
supporting reports and documents, shall constitute pre-established proof
in resulting administrative, executive and civil actions.
b)    Based on the legal opinion determining responsibility, the individuals
presumed responsible shall be notified, and the Comptroller General shall
remit, as a matter of course, copies oi all documents evidencing the
action taken to the entity, so that it can comply with the determination,
and should it appropriate, demand payment of the obligation ae determined,
granting for this purpose ten days to the debtor for payment, under
penalty of initiating the proper legal action.
c)    In case the pertinent entity does not initiate the administrative process
or legal action within twenty days following receipt of the determination,
the Comptroller General of the Republic, or his designated representative
in each capital of department, shall instruct the appropriate official, to
proceed to dismiss the chief executive officer in question, and the chief
legal advisor of the entity and to initiate the proper legal action. The
obligations under these procedures which led to the dismiseal of their
predecessors continue in effect for the newly designated authorities under
warning of similar penalties.
Article 44. The Office of the Comptroller General of the Republic may demand and
act in administrative, compulsory fiscal, civil or criminal proceedings related
to economic damage inflicted on the State.   Action shall be brought by the
Comptroller General of the Republic or his designated representatives in each
capital of Department who shall be empowered to delegate such faculties.
Article 45. The Comptroller General of the Republic shall propose to the
Executive Branch, for enactment under Supreme Decree, the regulations pertaining
to Chapter V, "Responsibility for Public Functions" and for the exercise of the
functions conferred to it by this Law.



-135-
Annex 14
Page 15 of 16
Artigle 46.  The Comptroller General of the Republic shall only perform those
functions consistent with its role as Supreme External Audit Institutions in
accordance with the provisions of this Law.   For this purpose,  it shall
coordinate with the Executive Branch the elimination or transfer of any other
function of activity it has been performing.
CHAPTER VII
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW PROCEEDINGS
Article 47. An Administrative Law Court is hereby created which shall handle al
law suits instituted as a result of the acts of public servants, of the various
legally constituted public entities, or of private or legal persons who have
entered into administrative contractual agreements with the State, against whom
civil liabilities have been determined as defined under Article 31 of this Law.
Administrative contracts are those which refer to the contracting of civil works,
the supply of materials, goods and services, and others of a similar nature.
Article 48. Matters of a civil nature not contemplated under Article 47, or
criminal, commercial or tax violations, pertaining to ordinary courts or tax
courts, and all those which, although related to acts of public administration,
are assigned by law to other jurisdictions, shall not fall under the
administrative law proceedings.
Article 49. Conflicts of jurisdiction arising between the administrative law
court and other jurisdictions or courts of law, shall be resolved in accordance
with the determinations of the law to whicn Article 51 of this Law refers.
Article 50. Administrative law proceedings are limited to their territorial
jurisdiction, and cannot be delegated to other jurisdictions. Their exercise by
administrative authorities and other shall result in the annulment, as a matter
of law, of all such proceedings and obligations.
Article 51. The Administrative Law Court shall be a part of the Judicial Branch.
Its organization and the administrative law procedures shall be determined by
means of a specific law, which shall be submitted by the Executive Branch within
the first thirty days' session of the next Ordinary Legislature.
Article 52. Decree No. 14933, dated September 29, 1977, is hereby raised to the
rank of a Law only as regards the part concerning administrative law proceedings,
and shall continue in effect until the law to which the previous article refers
becomes effective, except for the cases under appeal to be tried by the National
Tax Courts.
CHAPTER VIII
ABROGATrONS AND REPEALS
AL.gtic    53.  The following provisions are hereby repealed and replaced by the
laws



-136-                         Annex 14
Page 16 of 16
-     The Law of organization of the Office of the Comptroller General of
the Republic of May 5 1928.
-     The Budget, Accounting and Treasury Law, S.D. 08321 of April 9,
1928.
-     The National FlnancLal System, D.L.  09428 of October 28, 1970
-     PrincLples and Norms of Fiscal Accourcing, S.D.  12329 of April 1,
1975.
-     External Pre-Control, Law 493 of December 29, 1979 and D.L.18953 of
May 19, 1982.
Art$c1e 5J4. The following provisions are hereby repealeds
-     The Budget Organization Law of April 27, 1928, excepting Articles 7,
47, 48, 49, 50, and 51.
-     The Law of Organization of the Office of the Comptroller General of
the Republlc, excepting Articles 3 and 4, without paragraph b), and
5, also the law of Fiscal Control, except Article 77, pertaining to
D.L 14933 of September 29, 1977.
ArtLcle SS. All provisions contrary to this Law, contalned in the following
provisLons, and in any other legal regulations, are hereby repealed:
-     organization of the Higher Institute of Public Administration, S.D.
06991 of December 10, 1964.
-     The Law of Administrative Organization for the Executive Branch,
D.L. 10460 of September 15, 1972.
-     The Law of Organization of the Ministry of Planning, D.L. 11847 of
October 3, 1974.
-     The Law of Personnel and Administrative Career Systems, D.L. 11049
of August 24, 1973 and its amendments introduced by S.D. 18850 of
February 5, 1982.
-     The Law of the National Planning System, D.L. 11848 of October 3,
1974.
-     The Law of the National Projects System, D.L. 11849 of October 3,
1974.
-     The Law of Organization of the Bolivian Central Bank, D.L. 14791 of
August 1, 1977.
-     Statute of Limitations exception of Indebtedness to the State, D.L.
16390 of AprLi 30, 1979.
-     State Indebtedness Dollarization, S.D. 20928 of July 18, 1985.
Supreme Decree 22106 of December 29, 1988.
-     Supreme Decree 22165 of April 5, 1989.
Pass on to the Executive Branch for constitutional purposes.
Ynacted in the SessLon Room of the Honorable National Congress, on the ninth day
of July of the year nineteen hundred ninety.
Therefore I promulgate this statute for compliance as Law of the RepublLc.
ln the governmental Palace Ln the city of La Paz on the twentieth day of July of
the year nlneteen hundred ninety.



-137-                       Annex 15
Page 1 of 5
CLOSURE OF PROVINCIAL SUBTREASURIES
1.    BACKGROUND
1.1 Physical and Financial Volume of Operations - Staff Assigned to
Each Subtreasury. (Attachment 1)
2.    JUSTIFICATION FOR THE MEASURE
2.1   Reasons for elimination of Subtreasuries:
The principal reason is to avoid corruption and misuse of fiscal
revenues. Most of the Provincial Subtreasuries were created
because the banking system was unable or was not authorized to
provide the services it now provides to the State.
The Government is resolved to curb public spending and reduce
immoral practices within its agencies.
2.2   Advantages of eliminations
It facilitates administrative procedures by and eliminates the
risk of fiscal revenue misuse.
It concentrates greater attention and more funds on those
Subtreasuries remaining operational.
2.3   Possible bank participation:
Talks are to be held with the banks, although it seems from their
past record that they could meet certain good service criteria, as
in the case of their payments to Veterans of the Chaco War, and
automatized reconciliation of Treasury bank accounts.



-138-
Annex 15
Page 2 of 5
Attachment 1
PHYSICAL AND FINANCIAL VOLUME OF MONTHLY OPERATIONS
STAFF ASSIGNED TO EACH PROVINCIAL SUBTREASURY SLATED FOR ELIMINATION
SUBTREASURY       NO. OF        EXPENSE       NO. OF    %          Bs          %
EMPLOYEES        ITEM         OPS.
Aiqule                      4  Assets                 22    69       103,807      81
Expenditures          10    31        23,597       19
100
Bermejo                     5  Assets                 14    82        68,021      81
Expenditures           3    18        15,857       19
100
Camargo                     6  Assets                 39    78       189,141      88
Expenditures          11    22        25,548       12
100
Camiri(*)                   6  Assets                 59    65       580,017      81
Expenditures          32    35       137,304       19
100
Puerto Suarez               7  Assets                 22    92        93,772      81
Expenditures           2      8       21,860       19
100
Riberalta                   8  Assets                 22    73       352,181      67
Expenditures           8    27       173,193       33
100
Robor6(*)                   7  Assets                  8    40       253,321      72
Expenditures          12    60       100,222       28
100
…---------------------------------------------------------------------__-----__-----------
Sta. Ana Yacuma             3  Assets                  8    73        37,920      74
Expenditures           3    27        13,648       26
100
----------------------------------------------------------------------_____--____--__--__-
Tupiza                      7  Assets                 36    49   2,390,653        95
Expenditures          38    51       113,513        5
100
…----------------------------------------------------------------------__----__-----------
Uncia                       5  Assets                 23    46       394,665      85
Expenditures          27    54        70,025       15j
100
…-------------------------------- ---------------------------------- --__ -----_ ____ -___-___-
Uyuni                       6  Assets                 16    50       275,516      75
Expenditures          16    50        93,795       25
100
---------------------------------------------------------------------  _…----- -------------



-139-
Annex 15
Page 3 of 5
Villaz6n                   7  Assets                15    38       114,446      66
Expenditures         24    62        58,809      34
100
---------------------------------------------------------------------___------__-----------
Villamontes                4  Assets                11    50        82,277      78
Expenditures          11    50       23,366     _2
100
___________________________________________________________________--______________________
Yacuiba                    9  Assets                27    71       206,944      75
Expenditures          11    29       69,755      25
100
*     Bimonthly execution.
The Subtreasuries listed above are to be eliminated, as well as a
further six (not yet identified), representing an overall staff reduction of
142 (61%) out of the present total of 233. The Subtreasuries in the
departmental capitals will be retained to provide support for future
regionalization.



-140-
Annex 15
Page 4 of 5
MACROECONOMIC PLANNING OF PUBLIC FINANCE
AS A FRAMEWORK FOR THE BUDGETARY PROCESS
Schedule for Strenothening the
Subsecretariat for the Government Budget
in the Develooment of that Function
1991
March-September          Training of professionals from the Directorate for
Budgetary Policy in the management of planning
techniques and in the compilation and use of fiscal
statistics, supported by UDAPE and by experts
requested from the IMF (to help manage the Fund's
computation and analysis methodologies).
August                   Macroeconomic planning exercise to provide the
framework for the 1992 budget process. This will
serve basically as an input to enable the Macro Group,
supported by UDAPE and the Central Bank, to prepare
the final version.
September-December       Review of progress and in-service training of
professionals from the Directorate for Budgetary
Policy by ILACO project consultants.
1992
Starting in January      Intensified in-service training to ensure that,
starting with formulation of the 1993 budget, the
Subsecretariat for the Government Budget is able to
assume responsibility foe tne macrofinancial planning
that provides the framework for the budgetary process.
1993
Starting in January      Final institutionalization of the system.
Improvements in planning techniques and procedures.
Review and expansion of the Fiscal Statistics Data
base.



2  -141-                      Annex 15
Page 5 of 5
BUDGET EVALUATION SYSTEM
Proiect Execution Schedule
1991
March                    Physical planning of 1991 budget execution, for the
principal enterprises and agencies.
April onward             Gathering of data on physical and financial budget
execution. Training of Subsecretariat staff to serve
as evaluators and instructors.
July-August              Budgetary execution audit exercise covering the first
half of 1991, to be performed by the Subsecretariat
for the Budget.
August-December          Training of staff in the institutions to enable them
to perform internal evaluations.
October-November         Second, aggregate-budget exercise, with closing data
for the third quarter and preparation of evaluation
reports for the management levels of each institution
and for the Minister of Finance.
1992
January-February-March  Evaluation of 1991 budget execution by the
Subsecretariat for the Government Budget.
starting in March        Upgrading and final institutionalization of the
system.
At the time of the presentation of the General
Accounts for FY91 to the National Congress, it should
also be possible to submit an evaluation report on
budget execution, both for the aggregate budget and
for the budgets of the principal public-sector
institutions.



PUSLIC FINANCIAL NAAGEMENT OPERATION I   - LESSONS LEARNED                                                                                                     AWNEX 16
Page I of 3
OBJECTIVES                                 ACTIONS TAKEN &                                    SHORTCOMINGS                                ACTIONS REQUIRED AND
OF PFKO I                                    PERFORKMACE                                                                                        PROPOSED
LEGAL FRAMEWORK
Replacement of  unuerous                    Repeatment of 19 legal provisions                The promulgation of the SAFCO late              A very cooWehensive and ambitious program
antiquated, conflinting laws by             by a comprehensive law which outtines            suffered from tong detays and caused            aimed at disseminating standards and system
a sing(e taw uhich provides                 an overhaul andd modernization of               delays in other activities dependent             developed in PFMO I to other government
modern systems for financial                the entire pubtic administration and             upon it (particularly auditing).                 levets and institutions is proposed.
management as welt as for overall           baseic financiat institutions.                                                                    Onty with wuch assistance and training will
public sector marageent.                                                                                                                      pLblic entities be able to report finanial
information and establish financial
mnagement capabilities called for by the
La".
BUDGETING
Reptacement of an inqperative budget       Design of modern participative provisions         Budgets are primarily being produced by         Devetopnent of budget formulation
uhich had been fully abondoned in the    for budget formulation which wilt permit            the Ministry of Finance's staff.  white         capabilities at every public entity.
midst of economic chaos with cLear          the formulation of realistic financial           line Ministries awd decentralized                Establishment of budget execution
budgeting criteria and procedures.          plans by those wfo are responsible for           institutions work along with the MF*s            evatuation procedures at the Ministry
Create the ability to allocate              their implementation.                             programadores", but have not taken             of Finance's Budget Subsecreriat as well
resources according to goverrmental        Design of detaited manuals and standards         on the responsibility for formu' sing            as at the entity tevel.  Devetopment of
priorities and investment programs.         for program-based budgets, including             their own budget submissions.                    operations-programming techniques and
a detaited coding and classification            The Budget Subsecretariat does not have          procedires, as well as standards for
of expenses and revemnes.  FY90 and FY91         the capabitity to evatuate budget execution.  inputs (goods and services, personnel).
fromulated with this methodology.  Public        Existing budget formutation methodotogy does  Incorporation of these into budgeting
servants trainined at the Ministry of            not reftect physical programing of inputs.   formutation methodology.Progressive review
Finance in budget formulation.                  Coaputer software Is too slow and not            of the implementation of these. Conversion
flexible.  Needs to be made compatible          existing software into one co patible with
existing softare for accounting and budget    accounting and budget execution systems.
execution.                                       Purchase of microcomputers for additional
processing capabilty at the Budget
Sub3secretarlat.



Annex 16
Page 2 of 3
OBJECTIVES                                 ACTIONS TAKEN &                                   StIIRTCCNIIIS                                ACTIONS REQUIRED AND
OF PFND I                                    PERFORMANCE                                                                                        PROPOSED
TREASURY & PUBLIC CREDIT
Replacement of subjective ad hoc           Establishment of a true cash management           Treasury payments for pensioners and            Design and implement System and procedures
disbursements of Treasury funds by          system in which the Treasury has the             other recurrent payments are charmneled          for Public Credit and Treastry comatible
clear buget execution procedures.           fuiction of managing budget execution.           through sub-treasuries.  The nuber of            with that spetled out in the SAFCO law.
The previous system was based wholly       Few contries in Latin America have been          Treasury staff in these smb-treasuries           Replacement of those payments
upon availability of cash to pay onty    abte to make such progress.  Estabtishlnent    greatty exceeds the flow of payments.                 chamelled through the sub-treasuries by
the most obstinate or influencial          of clear priorities for payments and              Incame proyections are rudimentary              payments made through the banking network.
creditors, or those wilting to             automation of payment request with                ard there are significant time lags in          Dissemination of Tres. standards and
"facilitate" the payment process.          automatic rejection of request that do            receiving tax collection information.           procedures to decentralized institutims.
not have budgetary allocations (quotas).         Pubtic credit functions are shared by            Rationalization of comissioris charged for
Creditor disbursements are processed in 10    a great mu3ber of institutions, no clear            pubtic services in name of the Treasury
steps rather than 23, payrotl disbursements   detineation of responsibilities. (Note              "valores fiscales".
in 21 rather than 34, and pension               that the SAFCO law establishes fuictional
disbursements, saving time and reducing          responsibilities, but they ust be
the nurber of people involved in the             implemented.  Cash management and public
disbursement process, thereby reducing           credit procedures need to be established at
opportunities for corruption.                    the decentralized institutions for greater
control and information on pt*Aic debt and
cash availabitity.
ACCOUTING
The provision of opportune and reliable  I,plementation of the "Emergency Program"          The Emergency Program only provides cash         Review and implementation of auxillary        W
financial information, replacing a         for the reporting of cash flows from             ftow information, for a limited number.          accounts for the central adeinistration,
comptete vacUUm of accounting systems.   major plbtic entities..his program currently  Institutionat coverage of the integrated              providing greater levet of detail for
Enabte every entity to base decisions    encompasses 90X of totat expenditures and           accounting system is timited. The current        their cm  financiat management. Development
on reliable inventory control, asset       provides statistics for controt of                system also tacks a modute to consolidate       of specific accountirg systems, consistent
valuation, payments and cash flow          budget expenditures and for macroeconomic        data into a data base suitabte for fequent    with budgetary and treasury systems, for
information.                               performance (usefut for the IMF in evatuating and high tevel consultation.  This system           a setected rnmber of decentralized
their Erhanced Structurat Adjus. facility).   is not integrated with revenue data nor with  institutions (14 models) for their further
Creation of an integrated accounting system   the SISIN system (project eval. system at          dissemination to 116 other entities.
currently able to provide financial              the Ministry of Plarning), nor the Emergency  Dissemination of accounting standards and
statements for the central administration.    Program.  The decentralized entities stiLl    manuals developed to 58 decentralized
Creation of the General Accounting Office        can not prepare financial statements, no         institutions and 50 public enterprises.
responsible for financial reporting and          financial data is available on their            Provide the GAO with the capabitity of
rendering accounts on the performance            performance nor can they use accounting info. consolidating financial information from
of the pubtic sector to Congress.                iv.. their own financial management.            the entire putlic sector.  Naintain
The drafting of accounting manuats                                                                the Emergency Program until the accounting
and cLassification of accounts for                                                               systems are developed.
the centrat administration as well as a
mranuat for decentralized institutions.



Annex 16
Page 3 of 3
OBJECTIVES                               ACTIONS TAKEN &                                 SHORTCONINCS                            ACTIOIS REQUIRED AND
OF PFNO I                                  PERFORMANCE                                                                                 PROPOSED
AUDITING
Replacemaent of a cowromised and         The removat of ex-ante control functions for  Lack of experienced auditors, as the first  Execution of an aral audit plan, as welt
corrupt supreme audit institution by    the Contro(ler General, thereby removing        training course for auditors has just        further rationalization of CGO regionat off
an liJependentty manged and financed    an important source of corruption.              concluded. Lack of skills necessary          Reorganization of the Controtter General Of
institution with the potentiat to        The drafting of internal control guidelines,  to perform financial and compliance audits. to enable the CGO to enforce accountabitity
perform professional audits.             and govemmental auditing standards.                                                         Preparation of basic regulations cilled
Reduction of reduntant staff in the                                                        for by the SFACO law (Artitle 5) relating
regional offices. Assistance in lobbying for                                               to the reporting and audits of those
the passage of the SAFCO law through both                                                  entrusted with public funds. Develop an
congressional chambers.                                                                    audit quality contrat progrm, taudit staff
performace review and evaluation program.
Establish micro-comuter tracking system
for audits performed. Perfornce of six
Ospecialized exainations" for major public
investamet projects or pultlic enterprises.
Separtion of the judicia lfunctions of the
CGO, transfered to 1%e Judicial Branch. Dra
law to set up new Administrative Law Court.
FINANCIAL MANGEMENT TRAiNING PROGRAM
Reinitiate traininp in financial manag. Coepletion of 7 courses in financiat adninis.  Format training courses have just begun to   Review and inprove the basic training cycle
for both financial managers & auditors  and controt.The training center has condacted  scatch the surface of the vast universe      providing programed tearning texts for alt
Fitt the existin void of quatified       31 format courses and trained 791 pubtic       of potentiat trainees who most learn        courses.  Offer basic training courses to
accountants and auditors in Bolivia.    eaptoyees in 1990. in addition, the training  basic principles of accountabitity and         a ruch larger ruviber of participants.
center has provided administrationi and        control. Training courses msut be           Design a masters degree program  in accotnti
guidance for 11 budgetary seminars for 540    updated to take into account new procedures  financial management, and auditing.
public servants. A totat of 120 institutions  and systems established by the Law and to   Cocplete the physicat infrastrucuture erd 
were served.  To date, 31 participants have    be devetoped.                               equipent of the Training Center.r
reached the level 6 course and approximatety                                                                                           I
1,200 have gone through the first course
in the past two years.A total of 3,000 public
servants have been trained.



tR                                        --                     M,  Roods          B    O L          VI
e,   g  Mo,,, Roods  ~         Rel ef (meters)           CImotic Zones
_____  S*condory             R         oods 6000 AND ABOVE
I*-oRt;         a          5f / ~~ C*BERALTA  -  RSecroods 4OOy         5000 O.O.  300.0 4500m
R,Aers          0000  4000 ~ ~ ~~00~13004$0~
R,,e,s                                         I~~~00   300TE0RATI
Deporonent Bo.ndo,es  Z° 0  2000                            UB° 3°OP,CAE
\                                  -o<  >    &   2  \  -*-   Inrernot,onol Boondor,es          0- °000                   %ROPECAL
' ___=5Z1d0ri) %>  0\) > 4 t t                                             R A Z I L
*       Q/                           ,i   ~~~~~~~~MpcgdoleronXo \'                                                        w         l1
sY C           LA    PAZ           J        e.o,ooB        E      N       IRogdofeno,\                                                      -
wp., BOLI      A-. BIOA
TnA,,no  .R.fORURO   4                     -                                                                                              ,,e        7          > )E2CB°>lml-
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'o  SAf ,.Lron ^ mo r  
CL                                                                                                               H L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUT  MRC
I       -L
mnt on rre 1e9il stQrm o   _ t         ol Z                 A         \*                                                                          2> _~~~~~~~~~~~ogs-o  fl 
Imrtellrwytarmmmmm ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~                                        A      N      TV    A                C R os  Z                                   
AO. 4.ymy,ye,nA, ,s.d..,o~~~~~r.                                                                  LOAE'EPS~
'A~~~~~~~~~~~~0
SOTHAERC



