Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17992
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
SECOND PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OPERATION
(Credit No. 2279-0 BO)
June 5, 1998
Finance, Private Sector & Infrastructure Unit
Country Department for Bolivia, Peru and Paraguay
Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
SECOND PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OPERATION
(Credit 2279-0 BO)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(June 1, 1998)
Currency Unit: Boliviano (Bs.)
1US$ = Bs. 5.50
Fiscal Year of Borrower
January 1 - December 31
Vice President.       Mr. Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:     Ms. Isabel Guerrero
Sector Director:      Mr. Dainy Leipziger
Task Team Leader:     Mr. John Pollner



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CENCAP    National Training Center (Centro Nacional de Capacitaci6n)
CGR         Comptroller General of the Republic
(Contraloria General de la Repuiblica)
COMTECO   Technical Committee (Comite Tecnico)
CONSAFCO  National Council for the SAFCO System
(Consejo Nacional para el Sistema SAFCO)
ENTEL       National Telecommunications Corporation
(Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones)
GAO         General Accounting Office
GOB         Government of Bolivia
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association
IFMS        Integrated Financial Management System
ILACO              Implementation of the Law of Administration and Control
(Implantaci6n de la Ley de Administraci6n y Control)
IMF         International Monetary Fund
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
MOF         Ministry of Finance (Ministerio de Hacienda)
PFMO        Public Financial Management Operation
RDC         Regional Development Corporation
SAC         Structural Adjustment Credit
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SAFCO       Financial Administration and Control System
(Sistema de Administraci6n Financiera y Control)
SAFCO Law Law of Financial Administration and Control Systems
SICOPRE    Budgetary Control System (Sistema de Control Presupuestario)
SICON              National Control System (Sistema de Control Nacional)
SIEF        Economic and Financial Information System
(Sistema de Informaci6n Economica y Financiera)
SIIF        Integrated Financial Information System
(Sistema Integrado de Informaci6n Financiera)
TGN         The National Treasury (Tesoreria General de la Naci6n)
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface ...............i
Evaluation Summary ...............                                                           ii
A.     Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ..................................................,. 1
B.     Achievement of Objectives .................................................  ..2
C.     Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project            .5
D. Project Sustainability                                   .6
E. IDA Performance                                        .7
F. Borrower Performance                                      .8
G. Assessment of Outcome                                     .8
H. Future Operation                                       .9
I. Key Lessons Learned                                      .9
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1.       Summary of Assessments
Table 2.       Related IDA Credits
Table 3.       Project Timetable
Table 4.       Loan/Credit Disbursements
Table 5.       Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6.       Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7.       Studies Included in the Project
Table 8A.      Project Costs
Table 8B.      Project Financing
Table 9.       Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10.      Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11.      Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12.      IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13.      IDA Resources: Missions
Appendix A. Borrower's Evaluation



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
SECOND PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OPERATION
Credit 2279-0 BO
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Public Financial Management
Project in Bolivia, for which Credit 2279-BO in the amount of SDR 8.50 million (equivalent to US$ 11.30
million), was approved on June 26, 1991 and made effective on December 16, 1991.
2.    The credit was closed on December 31, 1997. As of December 31, 1997, 95% of the credit was
disbursed. A final withdrawal of SDR 50,985.69 (US$ 69,151.89) was pending and disbursed on January
29, 1998. The unused balance of SDR 744,313.83 will be canceJed.
3.    The ICR was prepared by John Pollner (Task Manager, LCSFP) and Carmen Machicado
(Financial Consultant, LCSPR). Sati Achath (PSM Consultant) also contributed to the report and in the
preparation of the statistical tables. The ICR was reviewed by Susan Goldmark (Sector Leader), Orville
Grimes (LCODR) and Maria Victoria Lister (LCSFP). Preparation of this ICR was begun during the final
supervision/ICR mission which took place in mid-December of 1997. The ICR is based on materials in the
project file, interviews with IDA staff involved in project preparation and implementation, interviews with
the Borrower's staff in Bolivia, and additional information requested of the Borrower to facilitate IDA's
review of the project. The Project Executing Agency, ILACO, prepared the Project Review from the
Borrower's perspective (Appendix A). Comments on the draft ICR received from ILACO have been
largely incorporated into this final version.
4.    The Aide Memoire for this ICR is not included in this report since it contained elements of other
project supervision matters as well as a discussion of the proposed design for the follow-up project. Given
that some of these items would not appear appropriate in the context of the ICR report presentation, and
given the brevity of the ICR discussion in that Aide Memoire, it is therefore not included as an Appendix
but is available in the project files as necessary.



- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
SECOND PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OPERATION
Credit 2279-BO
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    Following the hyperinflationary period in the early 1980s and the subsequent economic policy
reform programs adopted by the Government in late 1985, Bolivia undertook to improve public sector
administration via the establishment of the SAFCO Law to create a modem normative regulatory
framework for more effective public financial management. Bolivia was one of the pioneering countries to
set up a legal public financial management framework for promoting accountability, and soon afterwards,
other Latin American countries were developing similar approaches which led to a number of governmental
financial management projects in the region. To date, the legal model and the scope of the SAFCO Law is
still considered a model framework given its coverage of all financial functions within the public sector, and
its presentation of public accountability principles without overspecification of procedures. The
development of the Bolivia SAFCO Law, passed by the Congress in July of 1990, was supported by the
Public Financial Management Operation I (PFMO I), the predecessor to the present project. That project,
with the new public management framework, was one of the key instruments for the Government of Bolivia
to revamp the country's public financial management systems in the late 1980s. The main objectives of
that project were to (i) improve financial administration and control of ministries and public entities; (ii)
enable the implementation of tax reforms and improve tax administration; and (iii) improve the national
banking system, strengthen the Central Bank and restructure the main development banks.
2.    That project was successful on many counts. For example, the Emergency Program under the
Financial Administration and Control component greatly enhanced the treasury's ability to manage public
finances by providing timely income, expenditure and cash flow data. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) and
the Office of the Controller General of the Republic (CGR) were re-organized and the office of the
Accountant General was created. Norms and procedures were developed for budgeting, budget execution,
public credit, accounting, internal control and auditing. In Tax administration, the Internal Revenue
Department was reorganized and domestic tax collections increased from about 1% of GDP in 1984 to
7.8% in 1992. Under the Banking System Reform component, the Central Bank was reorganized, its core
divisions were strengthened and accounting systems were computerized.
3.    However, realizing that there were many more constraints to overcome, the Government of Bolivia
requested IDA for a follow-up operation to strengthen the financial administration and control procedures
introduced under PMFO I. Whereas PFMO I had developed initial financial management, control, and
oversight capacity of the MOF and the CGR, the Second Public Financial Management Operation (PFMO
II) was to concentrate on other public sector entities at the national and local levels, continuing the effort to
provide the Government with management information systems critical to execute its budget and investment
policy, and take appropriate corrective measures regarding redeployment of funds towards priority
programs. The project was also to help the CGR implement accountability measures vital to the oversight
and transparent management of public resources.
Project Objectives
4.    The main objectives of the project were to: (a) institutionalize budgeting, accounting, cash
management and auditing procedures at various levels of government; (b) enhance the institutional capacity



- 111 -
and skills both at the central and regional government levels to implement new procedures and public
financial management systems; (c) provide the government with ex-post control functions vital to the
enforcement of accountability for results in the public sector; and (d) implement final norms and
regulations consistent with the SAFCO Law, to cover all public financial and administrative functions
covering budgeting, accounting, cash programming, debt management, personnel, procurement,
organizational management, and operations programming.
5.    The financial management systems and regulatory norm components of the project were executed
by the Ministry of Finance, while the audit/control and training components fell under the mandate of the
Comptroller General. The project was intended to provide the institutional support for ihe macroeconomic
and public sector reforms being undertaken by the Govemment by putting in place upgraded and
standardized mechanisms for financial administration and timely tracking of fiscal resources. In this
regard, emphasis was given not only to the development and implementation of modemized procedures for
the govermment budget, treasury, accounting, and auditing functions, but also utilizing appropnate
information technology to ensure that such procedures were structured in an integrated fashion to allow
flexibility in meeting future public resource management needs, and their sustainability. This approach
proved essential given governmental reforms which subsequently took place during the execution of the
project, and which resulted in a major restructuring and decentralization of fiscal resources managed
throughout the public sector.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.    The project was successful in the achievement of most of its objectives. The eight regulatory
norms covering financial management and public administration had been approved and issued by project-
end, a working integrated financial management system was in place and able to monitor budget
expenditures in the central government sector, and 70% of budget resources managed in the decentralized
sectors (decentralized agencies and municipalities). The Comptroller General's office greatly increased its
technical and institutional capacity in both financial and operational audit areas, and by project-end, was
certified by most multilateral institutions as a qualified agency to conduct reliable audits of projects
financed by donors and international institutions.
7.    The project essentially met its critical mass of targets during the last two years of execution. Initial
setbacks occurred due to frequent changes in the political directorate and in the Under Secretaries within
the Finance Ministry (MOF), although the Comptroller General's component progressed as planned and did
not suffer delays. However in the MOF, besides the frequent rotation at the executive levels, the
appointment of technical coordinators to lead the project on the government side, was sub-optimal initially,
and required IDA's intervention to ensure that the last project director was sufficiently qualified both
technically and in terms of team leadership abilities, to complete the targets envisioned under the
implementation plan. While this was accomplished, and the integrated financial management system
(IFMS) met most of the required functional specifications by project-end, the on-line connection of the
IFMS to all central government agencies was only partially accomplished due to (i) the high cost of
telecommunications services for this purpose, and (ii) a change in government which put the process on
hold pending the new government's evaluation and reception of the system.
8.    The institutional capacity of the government in sustaining the project's accomplishments was
mixed. To a large extent, the project financed the development and skills training in modernized financial
management, although, to ensure efficient project execution, professional skills were focused under the
project unit itself given the sub-optimal experience of having diffused project 'technicians' throughout line
agencies during the initial stages of the project. This resulted in the development of a highly qualified
group of financial management and informatics specialists, though the integration of these skills into
permanently budgeted positions in the public sector remains incomiplete, and poses some risks in terms of
sustaining the technical capacity to properly maintain the IFMS system. Given the project's achievements,



- iv -
and the need to disseminate these to the newly decentralized public sector, IDA is continuing its support of
the government's financial management development program, which will seek to emphasize long-term
sustainability, institutionalization, and permanence of funding for such activities.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
9.    The project outcome is satisfactory. It achieved most of its objectives in terms of
institutionalization of financial management and audit systems, and even exceeded some (as in the start-up
implementation of IFMS systems in the newly formed prefecture governments), though on some counts it
fell short, particularly in completing the on-line connection of the IFMS to all central government agencies,
and the integrated usage of the system in the budget and cash management areas. These two functional
areas still depend to some extent on complementary systems to cover off-budget transactions which are
difficult to capture on the project's IFMS system, reflecting more of a policy rather than a technical
shortfall. This also points to a greater need for policy reform, particularly in the public budgeting area, to
reinforce the institutionalization of modem mechanisms for government financial management, and move
towards greater automation of financial control procedures. This would prevent political discretion in the
disbursement of resources once they have been legally approved in the national budget.
10.   Executive support for the project's targets (i.e.: from the Minister and Secretary of Finance) needs
to be further emphasized with government authorities to ensure a coordinated approach by the various user
agencies and vice-ministries. Lack of leadership in this sense can easily lead to fragmentation of the
integrated financial management strategy and the desire for units to develop their own independent systems.
Coupled with this, however, additional consultation and a 'user-service' approach by the project's technical
leadership is crucial, to ensure ownership, acceptance, and proper specification of the technical parameters
required by the user organizations. While policy preferences can inevitably cause divergences of opinion in
the design of such systems, greater success can be achieved by combining high level executive support with
a broader degree of user consultation on the part of the technical project leadership. The latter should also
take into account existing 'de facto' processes (such as off-budget payments), which, even if incohsistent
with a modernized IFMS system design, need to be incorporated in an interim fashion while the users are
weaned from such practices and begin adopting more disciplined procedures for managing public
resources. The government audit function can also be directed to monitor this process to ensure adherence
to the principles of the SAFCO Law.
11.   Continued IDA support in the form of an upcoming project will strengthen the financial
management capabilities of prefectures, cities, and municipal governments, while emphasizing the key
areas requiring more firming up in the central govemment sector. This will include, inter alia, (a) an
evaluation of current budget policies and procedures with a view to harmonizing these within the context of
IFMS development and SAFCO regulations, (b) an evaluation of the information technology platforms
used, to assure the best deployment of technology both for quick user adaptation and implementation of
automated financial controls, (c) strict monitoring of the technical qualifications of the project's leadership
and staff to avoid "down time" and resource wastage on account of frequent tumover in staff as well as in
executive posts, and (d) continuous partnership building among user agencies, stakeholders, and the
executive level of govenmment, to guarantee a collective commitment to a coordinated and integrated
financial management framework. This would promote coaching by the political leadership to ensure
management/user participation in this process, and avoid the risks of sectarianism and segregation of
systems to execute related financial management functions.
12.   The main lessons to be leamed from this project, therefore, are:
*     The importance of instilling project ownership at the executive levels in the implementing agencies.
*     Maintaining simpler project designs focusing on concrete and monitorable implementation targets.



Enforcing strict covenant compliance to ensure no compromises on project technical leadership.
Supporting financial process reforms with policy actions geared towards instilling accountability.
Ensuring continual integration and coordination of government users in the financial systems
development effort, to ensure acceptance and avoid independent development of sub-systems.
Recognizing "de facto" traditional business processes and integrating them into modernized
financial management systems gradually, rather than forcing new procedures on reluctant users.
Implementing parallel policy reform programs, particularly in the area of budget practices and
auditing, to ensure that once modernized systems are implemented, they can be used to enforce
accountability without being overridden by ad hoc political mandates.
Exploiting the information-technology features of security and computerization, in order to
optimize consistent financial management procedures, and automate previously discretionary
controls.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
SECOND PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OPERATION
Credit 2279-BO
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    Efforts to develop the legal framework for financial control and auditing of public entities in
Bolivia began with the formulation of the SAFCO Law, supported by the PFMO I project. Under this first
project, success was also achieved in the initial financial management, control and oversight capacities of
the Ministry of Finance and the Comptroller General's Office. The purpose of the follow-up operation was
to facilitate implementation of the SAFCO Law, institutionalize procedures and systems developed under
the first project, and enforce public sector accountability.
2.    Furthermore, Bolivia faced severe constraints on its resources, allowing it little room for deviation
from its macro stabilization program, and stronger public financial management was essential in
maintaining control over public expenditures. Thus, the objectives of the follow-up project were an integral
part of IDA's assistance strategy to Bolivia, which was aimed primarily at supporting financial
management reforms through broad-based institutional efforts, and modernization of systems and
procedures to improve fiscal management in the longer term.
3.    The main objectives of the Second Public Financial Management Operation (PFMO II) therefore,
were to: (a) institutionalize budgeting, accounting, cash management and auditing procedures at various
levels of government; (b) enhance the institutional capacity and skills both at the central and regional
government levels to implement new procedures and public management systems; (c) provide the
government with ex-post control functions vital to the enforcement of accountability for results in the
public sector; and (d) implement final norms and regulations consistent with the SAFCO Law, covering all
public financial functions and administrative norms in the areas of personnel, procurement, organizational
management, and operations programming.
4.    The two main agencies, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the Office of the Comptroller General
(CGR) were the selected implementing agencies for the project. The project consisted of three main
components: (a) financial management and control to create and modernize budgeting, accounting, cash
management and government auditing norms and procedures at the central administration level including
dissemination of these at other public sector levels (50 % of total project costs of which the government
auditing sub-component accounted for 26% of costs ); (b) development of standards and regulations to
review and draft regulations called for by the SAFCO Law in the areas of operations programming,
personnel management, procurement and administration of goods and services, and the rationalization of
the non-financial public sector (2% of project costs); and (c) training of existing and future financial
management specialists and their managers, and institutional support (40% of project costs). Project
Administration accounted for 8% of total project costs. Of these costs, counterpart financing of US$ 11.0
million (49% of project budgeted costs) to be funded by USAID were partially withdrawn in 1995. Actual
contributions by USAID amounted to US$ 6.0 million; the remainder of counterpart funds were provided
by the government. Of the USAID financing, approximately US$ 1.0 million was provided for the design
and implementation of a two year Master's Degree in Public Auditing and Public Sector Management.



- 2 -
5.     The public sector structure at the time of the design of the project was composed of the central
government (central administration and decentralized agencies), territorial governments (regional
development corporations, departmental prefectures and municipalities) and social security institutions.
Under this structure the regulatory and informatic systems were to be implemented gradually starting with
the central administration and then replicating and modifying the systems throughout selected representative
entities within the decentralized sector, regional development corporations and municipalities.
6.     Project objectives were upheld as desirable goals by every government in turn. Meeting some of
the objectives, however, required a level of integration by higher level officials at the Ministry of Finance
not easily achievable without a strong leadership from key players within the government apparatus. The
high level council (CONSAFCO), which was created for purposes of monitoring progress and reviewing
the first Financial Management Operation, was reorganized and essentially dismantled as a coordinating
body for the project halfway into this second operation, due to the impracticality of periodically convening
the council. In the absence of this leadership, the role of coordination was transferred solely to the Project
Unit, placed as and advisory body in the office of the Minister of Finance, and a technical committee
(COMTECO) consisting of public officials and consultants of the project. The technical leadership
exercised by the Project Director and the level of coordination achieved within the Ministry of Finance
became crucial for project execution.
7.     The government audit sub-component executed by the CCrR (an independent entity in the
government structure) was successfully progressing on schedule with its targets even while it was
somewhat hampered by its dependence on the Ministry of Finance for project management. The solution,
following the project's mid-term review, was to separate project rnanagement functions pertaining to the
project components under the Ministry of Finance and the Comptroller General respectively. Based on this
arrangement each agency was assigned its own autonomous budget and could contract services and
purchase goods separately while the original project unit continued to consolidate the financial and
accounting data of both agencies.
8.     Targets for implementation of normative regulations and financial information systems were
modified during the course of the project to adjust overly optimistic expectations as to the pace and ease of
implementation of these systems and to take into account the major structural changes in the public sector
structure starting in 19941. The latter had an important impact on financial management systems, for it
changed executive accountability and the apportionment of the nation's finances which were to be
managed by different levels of government in the public sector.
B.    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
9.     As indicated in Table 1 in the Statistical Annex, project objectives were satisfactorily achieved.
The project which closed on December 31, 1997, was implemented within the estimated budgets
(equivalent to $26.15 million -- this included dollar exchange fluctuations against the SDR, and additional
matching counterpart funding) and in reasonable time periods. This was despite a one year extension in the
closing date, justified based on the comprehensive restructuring of the public sector, and empowerment of
the regional and municipal governments during the course of the project.
10.    Financial Management and Control . The project supported the increased automatization,
standardization and transparency of various systems, guided by the regulatory norms and procedures for
financial management in the public sector. This included the budget, accounting, cash management,
treasury, and audit functions.
The structural changes consisted of (i) The privatization and capitalization of a number of large enterprises and other public
entities; (ii) The Popular Participation Law (which increased the number of municipalities from 9 to 311) and modified the
revenue sharing allocations & transfers from the central government, and (iii) The Decentralization Law which established a
new 'deconcentrated' govemnmental organization structure at the level of the regional Departmental Prefectures.



-3 -
11.   A program based system for budget formulation and consolidation (LEXUS) was developed and
implemented in the central administration. In parallel, the financial information systems developed under
the first project were replaced, integrated and redesigned under an open architecture informatics system.
The financial management system (IFMS) developed, allowed the on-line integration of the treasury,
budgeting, and accounting functions of the Ministry of Finance. Since the Treasury controls all
expenditures by the central government, the IFMS is able to provide on daily basis about 70% of the
National Budget2 and 90% of budget execution of the central government on an accrual accounting basis.
Basic financial information is available for budget monitoring purposes including reallocation of budget
envelopes as periodically modified during the year. Combined overall public sector information is also
available on a monthly basis. A metropolitan network for connecting all central government agencies to the
data base at the Ministry of Finance was developed and piloted successfully in six of the twenty central
agencies. Completion of the central government financial management network connection was intended by
the end of the project -- while the capability is now in place, only six of the twenty targeted agencies are
currently connected "on-line".
12.    Capabilities have been developed for electronically transferring budget payments through the
banking system and receiving on-line voucher payment requests from the agencies. However, the
implementation of these modules is dependent on modification of current laws which do not contemplate
electronic payments or vouchers as "legal" transaction instruments. Some government reluctance appears
to exist with respect to replacing all manual mechanisms since that would imply reductions in staff and
authorities' discretion in checking, reviewing and signing off on budgetary financial transactions.
13.    The project also envisioned the implementation of a prototype financial information system
designed for 15 representative decentralized level agencies that could be integrated into the central data
base and replicated throughout the decentralized entities. For the purpose of retrieving budget and
accounting information of the decentralized agencies, at least 2 different systems were developed and
implemented in about 180 agencies with varying degrees of success (SICOPRE, SICON and SIEF). The
central government SIIF system, however, eventually became the standard, and efforts had begun to
upgrade/replace the other systems with the SIIF. With the enactment of the Administrative
Decentralization and Popular Participation Laws, however, the restructuring of the public sector beginning
in 1994 significantly changed the implementation indicators envisioned at the onset, particularly with the
abolition of the decentralized regional development corporations and other decentralized entities which were
absorbed into the new prefectural regional governments. The Accounting Directorate and Project
Management thus opted for supporting the adaptation of the central government IFMS (SIIF) system in the
newly established regional prefectural governments, as the best instrument for reaching the intended
objectives of the project, given the institutional consolidation which had taken place. At the time of the
closing of the project, six of the nine prefectures had started to adopt the central IFMS for their
jurisdictions.
14.    One of the important objectives of this component was to eliminate the "Emergency Program".
This program had been created in 1988 to generate timely and reliable financial data on the non-financial
public sector (including central administration, important decentralized institutions, state enterprises and
municipalities). The consolidated reports produced by the Program on the cash flow of these entities
became an important tool for managing the Treasury's resources and controlling public expenditures. The
fact that this Unit (now integrated under the Vice-Ministry of Treasury) still exists ten years later highlights
the fact that the IFMS system has not been able to fully replace in timeliness or reliability the total
information produced by this Unit. Although, the Emergency Program now gathers most of the data on the
central administration from the IFMS data base, it supports its own system (SIEF). Consultants and
analysts are used for retrieving cash flow data on the decentralized entities and for consolidating operations
"below the line" not currently captured in the IFMS system. This process is still maintained because from
2 Based on the 1997 National Budget.



-4 -
a data processing standpoint, it is easier to operate as it does not necessitate strict accounting norms, and
only depends on cash flow recording. However, it is heavily dependent on a permanent presence and
monitoring capability of consultants assigned to each agency (these consultants are not IDA financed).
15.   Nevertheless the implementation of a uniform information system has significantly increased
efficiencies and reduced the amount of discrepancies that existed before the systematization of procedures.
Although parallel systems still endure, there is a general acceptance towards pushing for the total available
information finding its way to a common data base where it can be available to decision makers for
consolidation, consultation, managerial analysis and financial control. A periodic bulletin which published
public financial accounting information based on the information produced by the system was disseminated
by the Accounting Office during a short period. However, the publication of this bulletin was aimed at
establishing transparency in financial reporting as sought by the project but, unfortunately, political
pressures were successful in discontinuing its publication.
16.   The Comptroller General's (CGR) Audit sub-component showed high quality results in the
development of auditing capacity and institution-building. With the deployment of qualified international
audit consultants, the CGR upgraded its audit skills to include, besides the traditional financial audits of
public entities, operational audits of public investments including the evaluation of public works, and
environmental audits covering solid waste disposal, sewerage, protected areas, and special program audits
such as capitalization and privatization. The project's support for institutional strengthening in the CGR
helped create a new unit within the agency to establish state of the art procedures in audit systems
(including internal and regional electronic networks) and expand its coverage of the public sector (including
a number of small municipalities). A newly created unit for follow up of audits, for example, has provided
a valuable ex-post review function for financial management systems in the municipal sectors, thus
ensuring that accounting and budget reporting standards and controls permeate all levels of the Bolivian
public sector. The Comptroller General now ranks among one of the best in Latin America and it is one of
the few national audit institutions in the third world known to be professionally reviewing the quality of
public agency/enterprise audits performed by private sector auditing firms contracted by the government.
By maintaining its independence (despite two court challenges against its mandate to audit municipal
bodies), the CGR has now enforced a regular cycle of audits of all public sector bodies. Additional legal
protections will need to be put in place to allow the CGR to more candidly report major misuses of public
funds, particularly in public agencies/bodies controlled by stronger political interests.
17.   Financial/Administrative Regulatorv Norms . The basic norms for the eight financial and
administrative systems developed under the project and established under the SAFCO Law were drafted
and officially approved. These norms which were finalized under the project covered: accounting,
budgeting, treasury, debt management, operations programming, procurement, personnel, and organization.
The development and approval of norms though, was unjustifiably slow. Moreover, the decentralization
process required that the norms that had been drafted be revised to reflect differences in operational
procedures, and the size and scope of authority granted by the law to decentralized agencies. Since many
of the basic norms were not drafted or approved until the last year of the project, much yet remains to be
done in terms of disseminating and implementing the norms within the government entities. Without the
norms and specific regulations in place, the implementation of the SAFCO Law has only been partially
effective. These norms will provide guidance to all public sector entities in organizing their financial
management functions, and will be further promulgated at the central, regional, and municipal levels, under
the successor project.
18.   Training. The CENCAP training center offered training courses to 7,881 public sector
participants in 1995 and an additional 7,600 as of end-July 1996, as well as a number of training courses
for trainers. While the center performed a useful role in training public sector employees nationwide in
SAFCO Law requirements as well as budgetary, accounting, auditing and other procedures required under
the Law, insufficient training was given to actual operation and applied usage of IFMS systems,



- 5 -
particularly those being developed under the project in the MOF. Among the implementation obstacles
encountered under this component were as mentioned above, the delays in the approval of the basic
administration and financial control systems of the SAFCO Law, and the constant tumover of public
officials.
19.   This component also supported, in conjunction with USAID, a two year Masters Degree Program
in Auditing and Public Finances established with assistance from the Harvard Institute for International
Development. The Program got off to a very slow start. Moreover, neither the focus nor the marketing of
the program was sufficiently oriented at the public financial administration component of the curriculum,
prompting the CGR to reevaluate further support for this program. Credit funds of $0.4 million were
disbursed toward this activity.
C.     IMPLEMENTATION REcoRD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
20.   The change process that accompanied the development priorities adopted by the new government in
1993, dominated the political priorities and overshadowed the objectives of the project for a significant
period of time. As support for the project waned the project became less cohesive and stalled. The impact
of this was reflected in a negative mid-term evaluation and most mission progress reports until early 1995,
which suggested that unless the constraints were removed, the project would be scrapped. During the mid-
term review, implementation deficiencies in the effectiveness of the project management unit were also
detected. This centered mainly in the lack of a project director capable of performing effective technical
functions, as well as progress evaluation, and coordination of the various components in the MOF. Among
the factors instrumental in refocusing attention back on the pace, of implementation and achieving the
intended goals of the project, was (i) the appointment during the last two years of implementation, of a well
qualified project technical director, and (ii) execution of new initiatives such as the decentralization
process, while simultaneously implementing an adequate normative and informational framework for
financial control.
21.   The project had agreed (with counterpart/USAID funds) to fund the hiring of qualified "line"
consultants within the CGR and the MOF to assist as staff counterparts in the design and implementation
of the project components. It was intended that by project-end these consultants would be incorporated into
the government wage bill. The CGR consultants were eventually transferred to the Treasury budget.
However, the MOF consultants were not, and continued to be funded with counterpart project funds. In
addition, the work emphasis of the line consultants in the MOF eventually focused mostly on the work of
their unit rather than the project's work. Until the last two years of the project, the project consultants
funded by the credit had also worked under the line managers in the MOF. Since this arrangement did not
provide for optimal coordination with the project management unit, IDA agreed with the government to hire
the technical team of consultants and have them placed directly under the project unit to advance on the
work that had been intended under the previous structure.
22.   Most implementation targets were met. Procedures for budget formulation, cash management, and
elimination of the payment function of regional sub-treasuries, were revised and implemented. An earlier
generation IFMS module (SICOPRE) was implemented in over 20 decentralized agencies and
municipalities, and the upgraded version (SIIF) began to be implemented in the new regional prefectures by
the end of the project. The dissemination of IFMS and accounting standards and guidelines, was completed
for all municipalities and decentralized entities following ratification of the first version of the Basic -
Accounting Norms. Simultaneously, the CGR completed extemal audits of over 100 public entities and
conducted management control analyses of at least 50 entities, primarily municipalities.
23.   Some modules such as the debt management and electronic payments could not be implemented
without coordination with agencies not financed by the project. The integration of the IFMS with the data
base which monitors extemal debt was halted due to the need for first upgrading the informatics platform at



-6 -
the Central Bank, the institution in Bolivia responsible for administering the extemal debt management
system but not financed under the project. The Central Bank is currently in the process of installing the
SIGADE version 5.0 system which will allow interface with the I]FMS system developed under the project.
24.   One of the important performance indicators for the project was the complete integration of all
central level ministries to the IFMS data base in the Ministry of Finance. Though the IFMS has the
capability of implementing on-line connections via intemet, telephone link, or dedicated telecom lines, only
6 out of the 20 central government agencies have been connected to the IFMS. Among the reasons given
were the high cost factor associated with the use of dedicated telecom lines. Cheaper altematives were
analyzed but due to lack of a political decision, and the previous govenmment's preoccupation with the
upcoming election, no mandate to complete the connection was taken.
25.    The high tumover of Ministers and Under-Secretaries at the MOF who were in essence the
managers and users of the IFMS system and regulatory norms, imipacted greatly on the continuity of the
program during different phases. This high tumover signified that much time and effort was dedicated by
the Project Management Unit as well as supervision missions in the integration and remarketing of the
project to all key players.
26.   Despite the above setbacks, the project started making good progress during its final phase because
of a clear implementation strategy which emphasized the modemization and use of up-to-date information
technology to achieve a lasting integration of more efficient automated budgetary, cash management, and
accounting processes.
27.   It should be pointed out however, that the project effectively contained two separate projects, one
of which was the CGR's component. In contrast to the MOF component, CGR management was
continuous during the execution of the project, and the institutional strengthening achieved by the CGR can
be generally viewed as highly successful -- an account of this can be referenced under an institutional
assessment of the CGR which was prepared in mid-1997 (by J. Wesberry, ex-Principal Audit Coordinator
at the Bank, and now managing a similar program under USAID).
28.   Bolivia was one of the first countries in Latin America to design and implement a modern
framework and system for financial management and control. As such, there has been a somewhat
exhausting leaming process in this case. The experiences of this project have served as a model of what is
useful for other countries and implementable in terms of laws, norms, procedures, and information systems.
This will assist in implementing similar systems which are now being undertaken in virtually every country
in the Region.
D.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
29.   Since the underlying principles of the project have been supported by government commitment and
the requisite legislative and administrative measures, the impact of the project will likely be sustained over
a longer period. At the same time, the project may run some risk if key MOF officials are not fully
supportive of the IFMS framework developed under the project. If they try to dismantle the current project
structure, its technical staffing, and system design developed to date, sustainability of the project will
become questionable. In order to overcome this risk, it is imperative for the government to maintain
continuity in the design and application of the new project, the Financial Decentralization and
Accountability Project which builds upon the investment undertaken in the development of the IFMS
system and extends it to the new decentralized governments. Continued support as well as conditionality
from IDA for these purposes, will also be essential for the long-term sustainability of the project's
accomplishments.
30.   Constant rotation of staff and the reliance on consultants, however, poses a risk to the
sustainability of the system developed. The CGR in contrast, has built up its internal skills by training and



- 7 -
recruiting into its permanent structure, a skilled staff complement while reducing its dependence on
international consultants. The MOF still depends on local consultants externally financed for much of its
core activities. This risk has been identified as common to Bolivia due to the characteristics of human
resource management in the government sector, and is one of the priorities for reform under the current
government and reflected in another IDA project currently under preparation.
31.   The Treasury provided the counterpart funds needed despite a USAID pullout of its committed
funds halfway through the project (mainly on account of non-compliance in the anti-drug enforcement
program and eradication of coca harvests). However, it still needs to assure long term budget funding
once all IDA and other donor funds are used up.
32.   The sustainability of the IFMS system will require the institutionalization of an Informatics Unit
within the MOF (already proposed by the government) to take ownership of the system and provide for its
future enhancement and maintenance. Establishing the Unit would also ensure consistency in the
informatic standards of the Ministry and consistency in the integrated architecture of the IFMS, if
expanded. An Informatics Unit would also place the funding of this function squarely under the
government budget.
33.   To minimize the risk of 'dis-integration' of the system, it is imperative to ensure that a mechanism
for coordination at the highest levels, and including all subsystems involved in financial management, be in
place to continue to promote the reform. The coordinating mechanism will lead to sustainable efforts
because those involved will take part in the decision leading to new changes. Nevertheless, this process
needs to be supported at the highest levels to promote coordination and cooperation among the budget,
treasury, and accounting Units which comprise the key drivers of the financial management system.
34.   The government will continue activities for disseminating both the regulatory policy framework of
SAFCO as well as its application and operation of modern financial management systems. These efforts
should promote further transparency in public accountability by generating partnerships with various
stakeholders including the municipal and newly decentralized prefectural governments.
35.   The budget and cash disbursement process of the MOF still includes off-budget emergency
payments for high priority sectors. These fall under the general rubric of "debit notes". To ensure
sustainability of the IFMS system, such budget payments will need to be eventually incorporated into the
system to reduce functional fragmentation in the comprehensive accounting of public resources.
E.    IDA PERFORMANCE
36.   Project Identification: Satisfactory. IDA correctly identified the goals of the project and embarked
on the implementation of reforms considered innovative, and a model for other countries to follow at the
time. In addition, project objectives were a consistent follow-up of the first IDA financed project and
formed part of the integral set of reforms intended to stabilize the economy supported by the government.
37.   Project Preparation and Appraisal: Moderately Satisfactory. IDA staff designed and prepared the
project thoroughly with assistance from high caliber international consultants. However, the design of
project targets was too complex, scattered and somewhat inconsistent within the SAR document There
was a clear need to focus prioritize the targets during implementation. Also detected, was the need for
more technical design or guidelines for individual project components. Many of the design elements were
also very descriptive with long explanations regarding the 'objectives' of such components, but not
sufficiently 'prescriptive' to allow focusing on intermediate implementation targets and indicators which
would show evidence of progress in completing key products.



- 8 -
38.   Project Supervision: Satisfactory. During the first half of the implementation period, the IDA
supervision team did not include sufficient task skills in the financial and information technology areas,
which otherwise might have detected some of the emerging problems in project execution on the MOF side.
In addition, during this period government relations with IDA soured somewhat due to the task manager's
insistence on not utilizing Bolivian nationals to direct the project from the government's side, claiming that
they were too subject to political influence. However, during the second half of the project, the task team
composition was changed, and with a simultaneous change in the govermment's project leadership (with
another Bolivian national with accounting & informatics experience), the task team felt satisfied that
qualified nationals could indeed manage the project successfully. During that period, IDA staff maintained
a constant interaction with the counterparts throughout the progression of the project. They also dealt with
technical and implementation issues in depth, and adopted a pro-active approach to overcome problems and
find remedial actions. Aide Memoires and Back to Office Report-s provided an exhaustive discussion of
project activities undertaken, current status of project components, issues and constraints. Technical
performance targets and interventions were intensified during the latter years.
F.    BORROWER PERFORMANCE
39.   Project Identification through Appraisal: Satisfactory. There was strong government and
stakeholder commitment especially since the project followed-up on an ongoing program and reform effort.
Procurement procedures were conducted in a satisfactory manner and audit reports were submitted on a
timely basis.
40.   Project Implementation: Moderately Satisfactory. Under the MOF components there was
deficiency in performance in the early stages of the project due to the appointment of key project
directors/consultants with insufficient qualifications. However, during the last two years, the performance
of the new technical director was effective, and allowed IDA to re-set performance targets, most of which
were achieved.
41.   Counterpart funding was available at all times in the amount prescribed by the project agreement,
despite the fact that USAID pulled out its remaining funds towards the middle of the project, due to
Bolivia's non-compliance with drug eradication targets.
42.   Project components did not perform uniformly and stronger executive mandates from the Minister
of Finance would have been desirable. Due to constant political changes and reappointments in Ministers,
Secretaries and UnderSecretaries, it took long period of time to ensure the 'buy-in' of these new appointees.
However, as mentioned, this was not the case in the Comptroller IGeneral's office which maintained a stable
cadre of managers and ensured a much smoother project execution.
G.    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
43.   Overall rating: Satisfactorv. While the achievements of the project, particularly in the last two
years were impressive, some unfinished work to-date, would preclude a higher rating. A few remaining
tasks have yet to be completed such as finalizing connection of all the central entities to the IFMS,
finalizing internal debt management modules, perfecting the cash programming function as an automated
module under the IFMS system, ensuring capture of all off-budget transactions, and timely budget
execution data from decentralized entities. Some of these tasks will carry over into the subsequent project
and some, such as the external debt module will depend on agencies that are not properly part of the
project's financing.
44.   Major objectives, however, were achieved, including the capture of all central government budget
accounts on the financial information system, the approval of all the SAFCO regulatory norms, and the



-9 -
design of a critical mass of a public sector financial management infrastructure supported with software
and informatic equipment to assure the security and control of financial information.
H.    FUTURE OPERATION
45.    Given the major reforms mandated by the Popular Participation and Administrative
Decentralization Laws, IDA decided to continue support of Bolivia's public financial management
modernization program so as to increase the capacity of the newly decentralized governments and
management of increasing funds allocated/transferred to them from the central government. In addition,
continued support in the central government was also warranted to ensure the full application and
development of electronic payment and retrieval capabilities being developed under the IFMS. More
intensive training and dissemination efforts were also required to bring on board all decentralized entities as
well as to ensure operating knowledge by public sector staff in managing technology based financial
management systems with requisite procedures and controls. In light of this strategy, IDA and the
Government prepared the follow-up project (now awaiting effectiveness) focusing on the decentralized
government sector, and increasing the CGR's capabilities for auditing these sectors, including capacity
building in conducting forensic anti-corruption audits, reviews of large public contracts, and quality control
of private sector audit standards. The project will also address some of the unfinished tasks of PFMO II to
ensure that the systems being implemented at the decentralized levels will be fully upgradable based on
improvements in their prototypes developed at the central government level.
46.    The follow up project (Financial Decentralization and Accountability) has set more streamlined yet
quantifiable performance targets to avoid the ambiguities inherent in the implementation of PFMO II. IDA
has also made it clear that compromises on the technical qualifications of the new project's leadership will
not be made, to assure swift implementation and proper guidance under the government project team.
Based on the experience of PFMO II, IDA will also closely monitor intra-Ministerial issues in the MOF,
and seek to ensure that a mandate at the highest level is put in place to ensure inter-Unit cooperation,
particularly for fully integrating the budget, treasury, and accounting functions. The project will also
enable Bolivia to perpetuate institutional strengthening procedures covering newly decentralized sectors and
municipalities, and aim to incorporate at least 90% of total public funds administered in the country. This
will be supported by the implementation of integrated financial management systems (IFMS) under the
decentralized Prefectures, decentralized agencies, and municipalities, which will link into the national
budget via the central IFMS network operated by the Ministry of Finance.
I.     KEY LESSONS LEARNED
47.    The above analysis of project implementation suggests that the critical issues and main lessons to
be learned from the project are as follows:
*  The importance of project ownership by the government and the implementing agency cannot be
overemphasized, as shown in this case where the CGR's ownership of its component remained
constant, and, by being an autonomous agency was not affected by other government policies, whereas
the MOF's priorities and ownership of the project fluctuated throughout project execution, not in the
least due to the frequent turnover in the executives of the Ministry.
*  Satisfactory project implementation is determined by a project design which should be kept as simple
as possible. This includes setting more realistic implementation targets and key indicators of
performance which can be more easily monitored. Given the difffuse range of targets and objectives
initially specified, the IDA project team helped to prioritize these within the last two years of
implementation, to ensure that core targets were met, particularly in terms of finalizing the IFMS
product and its supporting regulatory guidelines.



- 10-
*  Strong technical leadership is vital for setting the direction for the project. The turnover of project
directors impacted negatively during the project's first four years of execution, and should be based on
ability rather than constant changes in political orientation/leadership within the government. Stronger
conditions performance reviews on this aspect should be specified in the project's credit covenants.
*  Institutionalizing procedures for cash management and control requires, in addition to technical
assistance, a tremendous change in the conceptual framework supporting financial management in the
public sector. This means a change in "institutional culture" from one of control to one of
accountability, for which there is great resistance. This cannot easily be tackled by a project of this
magnitude. To confront this challenge it is important that the project and the supporting country
program have strong political support and commitment at the executive level at all times within the
MOF, to provide the impetus for that cultural change and/or mandate if need be.
*  Continual integration and coordination of the major users in the government is a key element for the
development of accepted financial infonnation systems. Coordination of the system entails a great deal
of commitment by executing agencies to the concept of efficiency and transparency. Integration and
user consultation prevents uneven, unharmonized development. of sub-systems (eg.: budget, accounting,
cash) caused by turf struggles among decision makers responsible for managing each functional area.
*  While computerization provides the tools for integration of cormplex organizations, the information
needs of each entity must be carefully defined and the interfaces between the various operating units or
information sub-systems understood. To promote more satisfaction and trust among users this means
recognizing and integrating "de facto" procedures or currently practiced (even if sub-optimal)
procedures. Ignoring the latter causes dissatisfaction and distrust among users. Rather than force
abrupt mandates, the goal should be to slowly wean users of their dependence on parallel systems. In
the process, "de facto" procedures such as off-budget debit note payments, should be integrated into
the system once they can be made consistent with the prescribed financial management norms.
-  It is important to note that while the project supported the design of systems for financial management
and control, successful implementation of these systems would be beyond the scope of a project of this
nature without disciplined apolitical policies governing the budget execution process. For example, the
project was successful in implementing a program based-budgeting system, but not successful in
implementing a budget evaluation system. However, by observing how the budget is actually managed
day-by-day, one can see that although procedures for presenting a program-based budget are followed,
the approved budget is seldom executed as officially agreed. The Bolivian Treasury and the political
directorates decide, given the availability of funds, what payments will be executed, and which will be
cut, often without consultation with recipient agencies and without knowledge of how this affects their
"programs". From that viewpoint, the exercise of budget programming and budget evaluation can
seem almost pointless. Likewise, a government cannot effectively exercise the "audit control" function
if (i) the organizational structures lack an appropriate system of internal control, (ii) incentives for
respecting uniform procedures are absent, (iii) the CGR cannot enforce legal compliance due to
political interference, and (iv) the judicial system is largely ineffective. Therefore, although technical
assistance is a desirable tool for implementing these systems, it cannot stand alone. What would be
more effective in the long run is that such assistance form part of a comprehensive country program
strategy complemented with a broader adjustment effort for the public sector management framework
(particularly covering the budget area), but under a separate operation. Such policy-related assistance
should include govemance reforms to curtail Congressional or Executive mandates which allow
inflating budgets unrealistically, without the requisite sources ifor revenue backing.
* Use of technology and the automation of financial management systems can be an effective tool and
strategy for reducing personal discretion in the administration of public financial management
processes. Proper automation and a high degree of computer-based security, while carrying its own



risks, also allows the 'automation' of transaction standards, and puts in place controls which are more
difficult to break given data security safeguards now available on technological platforms. This aspect
should be exploited in such projects, while at the same time ensuring that the government audit function
also partakes of informatic-based audit tools to maintain relevance and keep abreast of more
modernized public financial management systems.



PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1.     Summary of Assessments
Table 2.     Related IDA Credits
Table 3.     Project Timetable
Table 4.     Loan/Credit Disbursements
Table 5.     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6.     Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7.     Studies Included in the Project
Table 8A.    Project Costs
Table 8B.    Project Financing
Table 9.     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10.    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11.    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12.    IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13.    IDA Resources: Missions
APPENDIX A. BORROWER'S EVALUATION



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                     El              E                El
Sector Policies                     5                               5 0
Financial Objectives               [3               5                                 Cl
Institutional Development           5              L3J              El                E]
Physical Objectives                                 5                5                5
Poverty Reduction                   5               5                5
Gender Issues                      E               1                E                I
Other Social Objectives             5x 5                             5               I
Environmental Objectives            5               5                5
Public Sector Management          Ix]               S                S                S
Private Sector Development          5               5                5                X
Other (specify)                      ]              5                                 X]
B.Project Sustainability           Likely                 Unlikelv                  Uncertain
()(/)                                              (V/)
Highly               M!dodLratel
C. Bank Performance                    satisfactorv         Satisfactorv               Deficient
(i")                    (/)                       (/)
Identification                     I                        E                         E
Preparation Assistance              5                         1                        5
Appraisal                           5                      Ix 
Supervision                         5                                                 5



D. Borrower Performance                        Highly        Moderately
satisfactory   Satisfactorv     Deficient
(/)            (/)             (/)
Preparation                                  3                              I O
Implementation                                                 I            I]
Covenant Compliance                          a                 ]            E
Operation (if applicable)                    E                 ]            E
Hiahly                                           Highy
E. Assessment of Outcome              satisfactory   Satisfactorv  Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
(")            (E)                                E
E]  rxi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Credit Title                                Purpose                          Year of   Status
___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ A pproval  _ _  _ _
Preceding Operations
1. Public Financial Mgmt.       Implementing SAFCO Law and drafting regulations.         1987    Completed
Operation - Credit 1809-0     Strengthening the central bank and restructuring the
development banks.
Parallel Operations
2. Municipal Sector Dev. Project    Strengthening of various administrative and institutional  1994    Ongoing
Credit 2565-0                 aspects of selected municipalities, including capacity
building in municipal financial management functions.
3. Rural Communities Dev. Project Strengthening of rural municipal public service functions  1996    Ongoing
Credit 2772-0                 including institutional training in tax administration as
part of the municipal financial managernent role.
Following Operations
4. Financial Decentralization and   Implementing a sustainable process of self-management  1997    Awaiting
Accountability Project, Cr. N033-0 in financial administration, instituting sound financial    Effective-
management standards in public entities, and building              ness
a strong public auditing function covering the decentra-
lized prefecture governments and municipalities.



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned           Date Actual!
.______________________________________   _______________________   L atest    E stim ate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)    June 1990             May 1990
Pre-appraisal                              September 1990          October 1990
Appraisal                                   January 1991          February 1991
Negotiations                                 April 1991             May 1991
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)    na                     na
Board Presentation                            June 1991             June 1991
Signing                                    September 1991         September 1991
Effectiveness                                   na                December 1991
First Tranche Release (if applicable)           na                     na
Midterm Review                                  na                  May 1994
Second (and Third) Tranche Release              na                     na
Project Completion                           June 1996              June 1997
Loan Closing                               December 1996          December 1997
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year              92      93      94     95      96      97     98  | Total
AppraisalEstimate        2.0    5.6    7.7    9.4    10.7   11.3   11.3   11.3
Actual                   1.5    2.6    4.4    5.8    7.0    9.3    10.8   10.8
Actual as % of Estimate   75     46      57     62      65      82     96      96
Date of Final Disbursement:    January 29, 1998



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
No.                        Indicator                            Estimated             Actual
I  Ministries, eligible public entities and the Central      October 1995    Process initiated in
Government institutions to start formulating their own                    1992 and completed
budgets (Sec. 3.07)                                                       by end-1995.
2  Complete the organizational changes for cash management     June 1995      Completed end-1996.
in TGN (Sec. 3.08)
3  Cause the payment system through the Banking Network to     June 1995     For non-personnel
be operative (Sec. 3.08)                                                  costs, completed end-
1992, for other costs,
capability in place at
_ ______________________________________________      _  ______________    end-1996.
4  Elimination of function of the sub-treasuries within TGN    June 1996      Function of cash
(Sec. 3.08)                                                               distribution by sub-
treasuries eliminated
______________    by end-1996.
5   Development of IFMS for 14 public entities (Sec. 3.09)  December 1994   Partially fulfilled by
mid-1995, however,
due to public sector
structure changes,
target entities
modified to include
Prefectures by end-
1997.
6  Dissemination of IFMS systems for approximately 50       December 1995   Fulfilled December
decentralized institutions and 50 municipalities (Sec. 3.09)              1996: Targets
modified (as per 3rd
amendment) due to
changes from
Decentralization and
Popular Participation
Laws.
7  Dissemination of the Accounting Standards for eligible   December 1995   Fulfilled end-1994
decentralized institutions (Sec. 3.09)                                    following approval of
the first version of the
Accounting Basic
_ _____________________________________________ _                         N orm s.
8  Dissemination of the Accounting Guidelines for Public    December 1995   Fulfilled end- 1994
Enterprises to Eligible Public Entities that cannot finance               following approval of
developing their own accounting systems (Sec. 3.09)                      the first version of the
Accounting Basic
_____________________________________________  ______________ Norms.
9  Introduction of uniform accounting and classification    December 1995   Fulfilled end-1994
methods to 100 local municipalities (Sec. 3.10)                           following the
approval of the first



No.                      Indicator                         Estimated           Actual
version of the
Accounting Basic
Norms.
10 CGR completing external audits of 100 Eligible Public  December 1994    Fulfilled end-1994.
Entities and management systems analyses of at least 50
Eligible Public Entities (Sec. 3.11)
H1 CGR annually undertaking external audits and         December 1996    Fulfilled end- 1996.
management systems analyses of at least 25% of the total
Eligible Public Entities (Sec. 3.11)
12 Emergency Program (EP) Staff to be absorbed by GAO   December 1995  Partially fulfilled:
(Sec. 3.12)                                                         'Programa de
Emergencia' (EP)
absorbed by the
Treasury Sub-
secretariat in June
19Q,
13 Preparation of draft regulations covering the areas of  December 1996   Final (post-draft)
treasury, public credit, procurement, personnel, operations         regulations/norms
programming, and inter-institutional organization (Schedule         approved by end-
2 (B)).                                                             August 1997.
14 Implementing a training program, and provision of courses   December 1996   Full complement
for dissemination of financial management, administration,          training on-going
and control procedures. Design of a Masters Degree                  since end- 1994.
program in accounting and public management                         Master's Degree in
(Schedule 2 (C)).                                                   Auditing and Public
Administration
designed and put in
place, in conjunction
with Universidad
_______________________________________________                      Catolica in mid-1995.



Table 6: Key Indicators for Projeclt Operation
Estimated     Actual
I. Key Implementation Indicators in SARJPresident's Report    na          na
II. Modified Indicators (if applicable)                       na          na
III. Modified Indicators for Future Operation (if applicable)  na         na



Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study                     Purpose as defined at         Status                        Impact of study
Appraisal/Redefined
Financial Management and Control
1. Developing a framework and    Ensuring uniformity of procedures    Done      An accounting systems that ensures uniformity of criteria in
guidelines for comprehensive  and classifications in public financial       the Non-financial Public Sector for budget and asset
Accounting Systems            management                                    transactions.
Budg-etin2 Study
2. Development of guidelines for    Set common guidelines for all  Done         Clear guidelines for budget formulation of the Prefects
programming Prefecture budgets  Prefecture regional governments             necessary because the Decentralization Law increased their
in 1996                                                                      scope and level of public resources & programs managed.
3. Investigation and identification of Create a general framework for  Approved    Basic standards set for the Budget system covering the
standards for design of the   structure and operation of the   R. S."i 217095 national Public Sector
Budget system                 budgeting sub-systemr
Accounting Standards Review
4. Definition of basic standards for  a. Develop a conceptual framework   Approved    a. Basic standards for the implementation of agency specific
an integrated governmental   for public sector accounting.     R.S.          accounting systems approved.
accounting system.            b. Produce Financial Statements  218040 (2nd  b. Availability of reliable and timely information for
version)     comparison of financial info., and historical analyses .
Regulatory & legal framework studies
1. Basic Norms for the other sub-   Develop guidelines and regulatory    Approved    Basic norms for the regulatory systems covering financial and
systems of SAFCO Law:         norms to support the implementation  R. S.     administrative functions under the Law have been approved
*  Operations Programming        of the Law of Governmental        216784       under the specified Executive Resolutions.
*  Administrative Organization   Management Control and Audit 1178  217055
*  Procurement of Goods and      (SAFCO). Analyze regulatory       218066
Services                     structures and alternatives used to
*  Treasury                      find appropriate applications within   218056
*  Public Credit                 the context of Bolivia's legal    218041
*  Personnel Management          framework.                        217064
i SR
/Resoluci6n Suprema (Supreme Resolution).



Table SA: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$ m) Actual/Latest Estimate (US$ m)
Item            Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign      Total
Costs    Costs         . Costs    Costs
Financial Management         3.81    5.35     9.16     6.10     6.07        12.17
Standards & Regulations      0.25    0.76     1.01    0.54      0.00         0.54
Training                     1.98    1.40    3.38     0.48      0.95         1.43
Institutional Support        2.99    0.00     2.99    9.02      0.00         9.02
Project Management           0.29     1.16    1.45     1.84     0.25         2.09
Refinancing of PPF           0.00     1.50    1.50     0.00     0.90         0.90
Total Base Cost              9.32    10.17    19.49    17.98    8.17        26.15
Physical Contingencies (3%)  0.28    0.30     0.58     0.00     0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies (12%)    1.40    0.81     2.21     0.00     0.00         0.00
: Total Project Cost        11.00    11.28   22.28    17.98      8.17       26.15
Table 8B: Project Financiing
Appraisal Estimate US$ m) Actual/Latest Estimate (US$ m)
Source          Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign       Total
Costs    Costs            Costs    Costs
IDA                          0.00    11.28    11.28   4.58      6.40        10.98
Government                  11.00    0.00    11.00    7.34      1.97         9.31
USAID                                                  5.86                  5.86
Total                      11.00    11.28    22.28    17.78    8.37        26.15



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
This project consisted of a technical assistance credit involving consultant support and funding
informatics equipment for developing modernized governmental auditing and financial management
systems. In this respect, the original project documents did not include any cost/benefit or
cost effectiveness analysis. Nevertheless, while exact benefits cannot be directly imputed from
a project of this nature, this section attempts to list some of the qualitative benefits achieved, and
which will have direct impacts in the cost and efficiency of governmental financial management in
Bolivia:
1. Incorporation of all budget and cash flow accounts of the central government
(20 ministries/agencies) on the MOF's central financial management system. This
allows continuous computerized monitoring of budget execution.
2. Computerization of the cash programming function to allow the Treasury to
allocate public monies according to availability and prior budgetary allocations.
3. Implementation of an audit cycle covering the entire public sector (central
govermment and municipalities), allowing the CGR to enforce submission by
public entities of their financial statements showing budget execution.
4. Piloting of 6 central ministries/agencies to allow electronic on-line retrieval of
budget and payment information. This also allows the future capability for sending
budget payment requests electronically, thus avoiding delays and paper work.
5. Computerization of all central government transfers to municipalities under the
Popular Participation program, allowing national budget funds to be consolidated
on a country basis, in order to account for all revenue sources and transfers.
The National Budget of Bolivia is currently B$ 9.1 bn. or US$ 1.7 bn. equivalent. Even assuming
conservatively that the improved financial management systems in place will allow more timely
tracking of budgets and expenditures, this should permit the government to allocate revenues
more efficiently and avoid contracting 'carry-over' short term borrowings to tide-over its
liquidity shortages in disbursable funds. In addition, better monitoring of budget expenditures and
revenues will also allow for investment of idle funds in interest earning accounts, pending disburse-
ment. These two factors in-and-of-themselves, would, in commercial circumstances yield cost
efficiencies and financial savings between 1-4%. However, assuming conservative savings from
investing idle cash funds, or not borrowing funds amounting minimally to 1% of the national budget,
his would yield $US 2.0 in. equivalent in annual net savings', which would recover the invest-
ment cost of $US 11.3 mn. plus an assumed market interest rate paid of 12% on the credit funds,
after no more than 6 years following project implementation2. In the long run, discounting these
savings indefintely, would result in an additional $US 4.7 million, in present value terms, i.e., a net
benefit.
1/ Equals ($1,700,000 x .01) x .12. The market rate for investing/borrowing is assumed to be close to 12%.
l/ Average disbursed balance ($5.65 in.) x 12% market rate + $11.3 mn. (principal) = $12.0 in. / 6 = $2.0 mn.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section Covenant Present Original Fulfilment   Revised               Description of Covenant                   Comments
Type   Status        Date         Fulfilment
l __________  ________   ________   ___________________   D ate
evelopment
Credit   3.01 (a)    4      C        Continuous                 Borrower's commitment to project objectives
Agreement                                                         and to provide funds, facilities, services and
other resources.
3.02      3       C        Continuous                Procurement of goods and services to be governed by
Schedule 3 of the Agreement
3.04      9       C        2/28 & 8/31               Preparation of progress reports                  3rd amendment modified
concerning the execution of the Project         to apply to PIU only, not
all public sector entities
3.05      5       C    Each November 15   Dec. 31   Submission of PAO by November 15 each
year regarding carrying out of the Project
3.06     12       C    December 31, 1993    Deleted   Establishing procedures for recruitment,        Condition removed
hiring and employment in CGR                    under 3rd amendment
3.07     12       C      Dec. 31, 1992   Oct. 31, 1995 Ministries and the Eligible Public Entities to
formulate their own budgets
12      C       Dec. 31, 1993              Regional Dev. Corporations and Central Govt.     Regional Corporations
Institutions and Decentralized Institutions     eliminated with Decent.
to formulate their own budgets                  law. In their place, the
Prefectures were formed
3.08(a)    12      C       Dec. 31, 1992   Jun. 30, 1995 Completion of organizational changes for cash
management in TGN
3.08 (b)    10     CP      June 30, 1991   June 30, 1995 Having the budget payment system to be         Capability set up; requires
effected via the Banking Network                central bank upgrading to
fully implement system.
3.08 (c)    10    CP       Dec. 31, 1991   June 30, 1996 Carrying out elimination of subtreasuries within TGN    Function eliminated as
per 3rd amendment, but
offices reconverted for
paying pension distribut.
3.09     10       C       June 30, 1994  [Dec. 31, 1995|Develop. FMS systems & acctg. standards for entities  |FMS developed, though



Agreement Section Covenant Present Original Fulfilment   Revised              Description of Covenant                  Comments
Type   Status       Date         Fulfilment
___ ___   __ ___ _   _ ___ ___ ____  D ate                                    .
upgrading of systems
3.10     10      C    December 31, 1994 Dec. 31, 1995 Implement audit, accounting & budgeting methods  in process, under new
project
3.11 (a)    5     C         Annually                 Preparing annual audit plan by CGR to carry
out external audits and management analyses of
Eligible Public Entities
3.11 (b)   10     C       Dec. 31, 1994              Completion of such audit and management analyses
of at least 50 Eligible Public Entities
C      Dec. 31, 1996              Completion of such audit and mgmt. analyses
of at least 25% of total Eligible Public Entities
3.12     12     CP       June 30, 1992   Dec. 31, 1995 Emergency Program Staff to be absorbed by GAO  Eventually absorbed by
theTreasury
3.14     9       C    November 30, 1994             Reviewing project progress measured against
performance indicators
4.01 (a)    2      C       Continuous                Maintaining records and accounts of the Project
4.01 (b)    1      C     Within 6 months             Furnishing audit reports
after end of each
year
4.01 (c)    1      C                                 Maintaining records and accounts of Credit Account
5.01     12      C        Throughout                Amending, abrogating, or suspending SAFCO Law
if it adversely affects carrying out of the Project
Status                             Covenant Class
C - Complied with                  1. Accounts/Audit
CD - Compliance after Delay        2. Financial performance      8. Indigenous people
NC - Not complied with             3. Flow & utiliz. of project funds  9. Monitoring, review and reporting
SOON - Compliance Expected         4. Counterpart funding        10. Implementation
in reasonably short time          5. Management aspects of project 11. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
CP - Complied with Partially       6. Environmental covenants    12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
NYD - Not Yet Due                  7. Involuntary resettlement    13. Other



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title    Describe and Comment on Lack of Compliance
No Lack of Compliance was Evidenced
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned        Revised        Actual
Stage of Project C cle          Weeks   US$   Weeks  US$  Weeks   US$
Preparation to Appraisal         18.0   45.0    na       na   36.0   70.4
Appraisal                        7.0    17.5    na       na    8.1    20.4
Negotiation through Board Approval  13.0   32.5   na     na   26.3   41.6
Supervision                      88.0   220.0    na      na   86.1   242.9
Completion                       4.0    10.0    na       na    6.0    15.0
TOTAL                           130.0  325.0    na       na   162.5  390.3



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of      Month/ No. of Days  Specialized  Implemen- Develop.                   Types of
Project Cycle    Year  Persons  in   Staff Skills   tation  Objectives                Problems
Field  Represented   Status
A. Through Appraisa
1. Identification  May-90    3      5  Task Mgmt/                                           na
Financial/
Accts/Audits
. Pre-appraisal   Nov./90    5     10  Task Mgmt/                                          na
Financial/
Accts/Audits
Info. Systems
3. Appraisal       Feb-91               Task Mgmt/                                          na
Financial/
Accts/Audits/
Info. Systems
B. Appraisal through    na
Board Apiroval
C. Board ADDroval    na
throuh Effectiveness
D. Supervision
Supervision I      Feb-92    3      10  Task             1         I    (i) Lack of understanding by many entities on
Mgmt./Public                    the full-scope and usefulness of program-based
Finance                         budgeting.
(ii) Delay by MOF in deciding on elimination
of sub-treasuries, due to political factors.
Supervision 2      Nov-92    3       7  Task                        I    (i) Lack of national consensus on SAFCO Law.
Mgmt./Public
Finance
(ii) Difficulty in identifying and hiring higher-
level local and international consultants.
(iii) inadequate coordination of activities within
MOF, and between MOF and CGR.
Supervision 3      Oct-93    2      15  Task Mgmt./       2        2    (i) Delay in project activities due to reduction in
Financial                       counter-part funding and change in authorities.
(ii) Delay in some components due to lack of
definition of objectives and political support.
(iii) Technical Director's failure to perform
technical functions, progress evaluation and
coordination of components.
(iv) Authorities hiring outside of established
norms.



Performance Rating
Stage of      Month/  No. of Days   Specialized  Implemen- Develop.                    Types of
Project Cycle    Year  Persons  in   Staff Skills   tation  Objectives                  Problems
l____ Field  Represented    Status                                                      l
Supervision 4       Jun-94     3     11  Task Mgmt/        U         S    (i) Delay in presenting norms for procurement
FinanciallTax                    of goods and services due to changes in
Admn.                            government.
|Supervision 5      Jan-95     3     9  Task Mgmt/         U         S
Financial                        (i) Budgeting objectives not achieved.
Accts/ Audits
(ii) Elimination of sub-treasuries unlikely due
to:
(a) banking network cannot reach certain
parts of interior; and (b) sub-treasuries may be
assigned new functions.
Supervision 6       Oct-95     3      5  Task Mgmt/        U         S
Financial                        (i) Lack of coordination among subsecretariats
Acctsl Audits                    within MOF.
(ii) Lack of technical leadership at Project Unit
level.
(iii) Lack of political commitment to objectives
of the project.
(iv) Implementation of decent. budget acctg.
system (SICOPRE) not very successful.
Supervision 7      May-96                Task Mgmt./       S         S    (i) Revenue sources of some central agencies
Financial                        not yet fully captured on IFMS.
(ii) Resistance from some central agencies in
having a common accounting systems.
Supervision 8       Oct-96    4      10  Task Mgmt./       S         S
Accts/Audits/                    (i) Treasury Public Credit Division not reached
SystemsA                         a decision on type of debt monitoring system.
Controls
(ii) Management of debt information between
MOF and Central Bank.
Supervision 9       Jun-97    3      10  Task Mgmt./                      (i) Budget payment request voucher via on-line
Financial/fl  ugtpyetrqus  oce  i  nln
Financal/                       not implemented due to non-acceptance of
Legal                            electronic transactions by public sector auth.
Supervision 10 and   Dec-97    2      9  Task Mgmt/        S         S    (i) 14 out of 20 central govt. agencies not
CR                                       Financial                        connected to IFMS due to resistance from some
managers in the MOF.



Appendix A: Borrower's Evaluation
INFORME DE CUMPLIMIENTO DE LA IMPLEMENTACION
PROYECTO ILACO
I    DESCRIPCION Y OBJETIVOS DEL PROYECTO
El objetivo del Proyecto es el de mejorar la eficiencia, eficacia y transparencia
del sistema de administraci6n de recursos del Prestatario a trav6s de: (a) la
institucionalizaci6n  de  procedimientos  de  presupuesto,  contabilidad,
administraci6n de caja y auditorfa en varios niveles del Gobierno; (b) la mejora
de la capacidad institucional para implantar los nuevos procedimientos, tanto
en el nivel de Administraci6n Central como Regional; (c) la provisi6n al
Gobierno de las funciones de control posterior, vitales para el fortalecimiento
de la respondabilidad (accountability) de los resultados por la funci6n p6blica;
y (d) desarrollar recursos humanos capacitados para mantener los nuevos
procedimientos.
El proyecto consta de los siguientes componentes: (a) Administraci6n
Financiera y Control, para crear y/o modernizar normas y procedimientos de
presupuesto, contabilidad administraci6n de caja (Tesoreria) y auditoria
gubernamental en el ambito de la Administracion Central y difundirlas
posteriormente a otros niveles del sector publico; (b) desarrollo de normativa
y regulaciones, para revisar y/o proyectar la normativa requerida por la Ley
1178 (SAFCO), en programaci6n de operaciones, administraci6n de personal,
administraci6n de bienes y servicios y la racionalizaci6n del sector pcublico no
financiero; y (c) capacitaci6n, para asegurar el flujo de servidores publicos de
nivel alto y medio y otros profesionales competentes en administraci6n
financiera y auditoria modernas, responsables por la operaci6n, difusi6n,
fortalecimiento y sostenibilidad de la normativa y regulaciones recientemente
emitidas. El proyecto sera implementado por tres agencias separadas, la
Contraloria General de la Republica, el Ministerio de Finanzas y el Centro de
Capacitacion de la Contraloria General, con la coordinaci6n y direcci6n
general de la Unidad de Gerencia (Direcci6n Tecnica), existente, bajo la
responsabilidad del CONSAFCO, consejo a cargo de la definici6n de politicas
para la administraci6n financiera y control en Bolivia, tambi6n existente, el
mismo que esta conformado por el Ministro de Planeamiento y Coordinaci6n, el
Ministro de Finanzas, el Contralor General de la Republica, el Presidente del
Banco Central de Bolivia y el Contador General del Estado.
Los objetivos especificos de cada componente se describen a continuaci6n:
1. Administracion Financiera y Control. (i) capacidad de elaborar
presupuestos en el ambito de entidades publicas, transferencia de la
responsabilidad de formulaci6n de presupuesto del Ministerio de Finanzas,
a cada entidad, basado en actividades e inversiones planificadas y mejorar
la capacidad de la Subsecretaria de Presupuesto para la evaluaci6n de
presupuestos. (ii) manejo de caja, fortalecimiento de las funciones de
Tesoreria, ajuste de los mecanismos de desembolso y otorgamiento de



2
cuotas para la ejecuci6n presupuestaria, racionalizaci6n de los pagos del
Tesoro mediante la eliminaci6n de los subtesoros y su sustituci6n a traves
de pagos mediante la red bancaria; (iii)  desarrollo de sistemas de
contabilidad consistentes con las normas desarrolladas previamente pero
especificos para 14 entidades representativas, para su replica en otras
entidades descentralizadas y gobiernos locales, de manera que se asegure
la uniformidad de procedimientos y clasificaciones, sin limitarse a los
informes de flujo de caja; y (iv) auditoria gubernamental que permita a la
Contraloria General de la Republica ejercer las responsabilidades
enmarcadas en la Ley SAFCO, especialmente para fortalecer la
respondabilidad (accountability) publica de una manera coherente y
arm6nica.
2. Desarrollo Normativo. Luego de la revisi6n de la actual legislaci6n y con
el enfoque de la Ley SAFCO (1178), es necesario definir la normativa en
las siguientes areas: (i) programaci6n de operaciones para asegurar el
entendimiento comun de los procedimientos para programar insumos
fisicos individuales de cada agencia, de manera que sean reflejados
financieramente en sus presupuestos; (ii) administraci6n de personal que
incluyan criterios estandar de selecci6n y remuneraci6n de servidores
publicos pagados por el T.G.N.; (iii) normas y procedimientos y estandares
para la administraci6n de bienes y servicios; (iv) organizaci6n para
coadyuvar a Ia redefinici6n de funciones y relaciones en el sector publico,
eliminando redundancias y estableciendo patrones organizacionales dentro
de las instituciones publicas, y (v) estandares y procedimientos de
tesorerfa, administraci6n de caja y cr6dito publico para instituciones
descentralizadas.
3. Capacitaci6n.  Capacitaci6n en sistemas basicos de administraci6n y
control para facilitar el flujo de profesionales competentes del sector publico
en niveles altos y medios, necesarios para operar y dar continuidad a los
sistemas creados y definidos en la Ley SAFCO (1178). Las actividades de
capacitaci6n disehiadas para explicar y difundir los principios del SAFCO
necesitan ser revisados y el curriculo redisenado para reflejar los recientes
desarrollos que resultan de la actual implantaci6n de la Ley. El proyecto
ayudara a financiar instructores bolivianos quienes seran capacitados en
t6cnicas de ensenanza de manera que todos los instructores extranjeros
seran completamente eliminados a la conclusi6n del proyecto. La creaci6n
de un nucleo de servidores publicos competentes es critica dada la
tradicional debilidad del sistema educativo en formar profesionales capaces
para trabajar como contadores en lugar de auditores y tenedores de libros.
El objetivo del curriculo de nivel universitario es el de ayudar a establecer
un vehiculo permanente para futura capacitaci6n a nivel de post grado en
administraci6n financiera publica.
Los objetivos establecidos para el proyecto en los componentes de
Administraci6n Financiera y Desarrollo Normativo fueron planteados bajo una
estructura econ6mica en la cual el sector puiblico no financiero estaba
conformado por el Gobierno Central (Administraci6n Central e Instituciones



3
Descentralizadas  sin  fines  empresariales),  Gobiernos  Territoriales
(Corporaciones Regionales de Desarrollo, Prefecturas Departamentales y
Municipios) e, Instituciones de Seguridad Social, por lo tanto las actividades
del Proyecto fueron orientadas a este contexto, desarrollando sistemas para
ser implantados de manera gradual en la administraci6n central y,
posteriormente en el ambito descentralizado, administraci6n local y empresas
publicas. Esta situaci6n se cumpli6 entre 1991 y fines de 1993. En cuanto a los
objetivos del componente de Control y Capacitaci6n, estos fueron establecidos
para mejorar las funciones de control externo y para formar profesionales con
alto grado de conocimiento del Sistema Integrado de Administraci6n Financiera
y Control. Los objetivos originales del proyecto fueron planteados de una
manera satisfactoria para su implantaci6n.
II.   Cumplimiento de los Objetivos
Se considera que los principales objetivos del proyecto fueron alcanzados de
manera satisfactoria para el gobierno.
La Administraci6n Central cuenta con un Sistema Integrado de lnformaci6n
Financiera (SIIF) desarrollado en plataforma de arquitectura abierta operando
desde enero de 1995, el mismo que ha permitido la elaboraci6n de Estados
Financieros de las gestiones 1995 y 1996. De la misma manera, entre 1996 y
1997 se ha adecuado este sistema, para su implantaci6n en seis de las nueve
prefecturas departamentales, habi6ndose alcanzado logros satisfactorios, tales
como la emisi6n de Estados Financieros y la obtenci6n de informaci6n
financiera confiable y oportuna para la operativa de las instituciones. Se han
realizado pruebas para la implementaci6n de la Red Metropolitana que
permitira, en un pr6ximo futuro, contar con las facilidades de la consulta de
operaciones financieras y la transferencia electr6nica de fondos y se ha dado
pasos importantes para la conexi6n nacional a traves de una red de area
amplia.
La  Contadurfa  General  del  Estado  cuenta  con  informaci6n  de
aproximadamente siete mil cuentas corrientes fiscales, aspecto que le permite
realizar un seguimiento al movimiento de las mismas y enriquecer la
informaci6n procesada. Dentro de este m6dulo se cuenta con la informaci6n de
los recursos de Participaci6n Popular.
El proyecto ha asesorado y apoyado al Ministerio en la adquisici6n de equipos
de computaci6n para las diferentes subsecretarias involucradas con el sistema
de administraci6n financiera.
La subsecretaria de Presupuestos (Viceministerio de Presupuesto y
Contaduria) ha desarrollado un software para la formulaci6n, agregaci6n y
consolidaci6n del Presupuesto General de la Naci6n, dicho sistema se
desarroll6 en base al sistema LEXUS, desarrollado por el proyecto. Los
productos de este sistema son el insumo para la operaci6n del SIIF.



4
A agosto de 1997, se ha logrado completar la normativa basica de los sistemas
establecidos en ia Ley 1178.
Con el apoyo de consultores internacionales y funcionarios de la instituci6n, la
Contraloria General ha desarrollado manuales y guias especializadas en las
areas de auditoria interna y externa.
A trav6s de la creaci6n de la Subcontraloria de Servicios Legales, la
Contralorfa General ha mejorado su capacidad para administrar los asuntos
juridicos. Dentro de los logros de esta unidad, se puede mencionar, entre
otros,  las Reformas al reglamento de las principales atribuciones y
responsabilidades de la C.G.R., el Proyecto de Ley de Procedimiento Coactivo
Fiscal y el Reglamento para el Seguimiento de Acciones para la Determinaci6n
de Responsabilidad.
Se ha modernizado el parque computacional de la Contraloria con la
adquisici6n de nuevos equipos de computaci6n.
El Centro de Capacitaci6n de ia Contraloria (CENCAP) ha dictado cursos
regulares y especiales sobre la Ley 1178, ha realizado talleres y seminarios
del Sistema de Administraci6n Financiera y Control Gubernamentales y ha
capacitado internamente a funcionarios de la CGE en el area de auditoria.
Se ha modernizado la Biblioteca de la Contraloria, actualmente se cuenta con
cerca de 4.000 documentos, entre libros, documentos de consulta, revistas y
otros.
Se ha habilitado una Guarderia para ia atenci6n de los hijos de los
funcionarios.
Se han adquirido vehiculos para apoyar la labor de control en los municipios.
Ill. Factores que afectaron la ejecucion del Proyecto
A partir de agosto de 1993, se inicia la gesti6n presidencial del Lic. Gonzalo
Sanchez de Lozada, que se caracteriz6 por los grandes cambios estructurales
del Estado, aspecto que repercuti6 en la ejecuci6n del Proyecto, tanto por los
cambios en la estructura del Estado como tambien debido a que la magnitud
de estos disminuy6 la importancia que se le dio a la implantacion de la Ley
1178.
El primer cambio se dio en septiembre de 1993, cuando se aprueba ia Ley de
Ministerios que organiza al Poder Ejecutivo en funci6n al Plan de Gobierno, su
impacto en el Proyecto ILACO se refleja en la modificaci6n del CONSAFCO, ya
que el Ministerio de Finanzas se convierte en Secretaria Nacional de
Hacienda, dependiente del Ministerio de Desarrollo Econ6mico, instancia a la
cual se delega la rectoria de los sistemas de administraci6n financiera y se



5
elimina de la estructura al Ministerio de Planeamiento y Coordinaci6n, 6rgano
rector del Sistema Nacional de Planificaci6n, cuyo titular formaba parte del
Consejo.
En abril de 1994 se aprueba la Ley de Participaci6n Popular que persigue una
mejor distribuci6n de los recursos publicos, estableciendo el principio de
distribuci6n igualitaria por habitante, de los recursos de coparticipaci6n
tributaria, para lo cual se establece un reordenamiento territorial ampliando las
competencias municipales al ambito rural,  asignando a los gobiernos
municipales la responsabilidad en la administraci6n, tanto de los recursos
como de la infraestructura de educaci6n, salud, deportes, caminos vecinales,
microriego. Con esta Ley el numero de Municipios se incrementa a 311 y se
clasifican en Municipios de acuerdo al numero de habitantes en cinco tipos de
Municipios.
La Ley de Descentralizaci6n Administrativa de 28 de julio de 1995 establece la
estructura organizativa del Poder Ejecutivo a nivel Departamental en aras de,
entre otros objetivos, mejorar y fortalecer la eficiencia y eficacia de la
Administraci6n Publica, en la prestaci6n de servicios en forma directa y
cercana. Mediante esta Ley se disuelven tanto las entidades descentralizadas
y desconcentradas, como las Corporaciones Regionales de Desarrollo y sus
funciones  y  responsabilidades  son  delegadas  a  los  Prefectos
Departamentales, transfiriendo tambi6n la responsabilidad de la administraci6n
de los recursos humanos, fisicos y financieros. Con esta reforma se reduce el
numero de entidades a las cuales deberfa alcanzar el proyecto con el
desarrollo e implantaci6n de los sistemas de administraci6n financiera; sin
embargo, esta reducci6n en el numero viene acompahada con modificaciones
en el funcionamiento y relacionamiento del aparato estatal.
El aho 1997 se produce el cambio de administraci6n del Poder Ejecutivo y se
inicia nuevamente un proceso de cambio en aspectos organizativos del mismo,
el 22 de septiembre de ese an-o se aprueba la Ley de Organizaci6n del Poder
Ejecutivo, disposici6n que modifica nuevamente la estructura y funciones de
los Ministerios, crea los Servicios Nacionales y, modifica tambi6n algunos
aspectos de la Ley de Descentralizaci6n Administrativa relativos a las
responsabilidades de los Prefectos. Entre los cambios importantes dentro de
estructura del Ministerio de Hacienda, esta la fusi6n de las Subsecretarfas de
Presupuesto y Contaduria General del Estado en un solo Vice Ministerio de
Presupuesto y Contaduria.
Aparte de los cambios en la estructura del Estado, se debe considerar los
cambios en autoridades tanto del gobierno como del proyecto en si. Desde el
inicio del proyecto, el ano 1991, hasta la fecha se produjeron los siguientes
cambios:
Tres diferentes gobiernos constitucionales, en el Ministerio de Finanzas
(Secretaria Nacional de Hacienda, Ministerio de Hacienda), 6 Ministros, 3
Secretarios Nacionales, 7 Contadores Generales del Estado (Vice Ministerio



6
de Presupuesto y Contaduria),  8 Subsecretarios de Presupuesto (Vice
Ministerio de Presupuesto y Contadurfa), 7 Subsecretarios de Tesoro y Cr6dito
Publico (Vice Ministerio Tesoro y Cr6dito Publico); en la Direcci6n T6cnica del
Proyecto 6 Directores T6cnicos.
Por otro lado, en abril de 1995, el Gobierno de Bolivia solicit6 la separaci6n en
la administraci6n de los recursos del proyecto, encomendandose al Unidad de
Gesti6n PCiblica (UGP), dependiente del Ministerio de Hacienda la
administraci6n de los recursos correspondientes a Haciendat (la UGP, fue
disuelta posteriormente y la administraci6n continua a cargo de la Unidad del
Proyecto) y a la Contraloria General de la Republica, los recursos de esa
Instituci6n.
Adicionalmente, el CONSAFCO tambi6n tuvo algunas modific:aciones en su
estructura y funciones, se incluye al Contador General del Estado, al
Subsecretario de Inversi6n Publica y al Director del Centro de Capacitaci6n; el
Ministerio de Planeamiento fue eliminado de la estructura del Poder Ejecutivo,
por lo tanto no tiene representaci6n en el Consejo; se incluye al
Superintendente de Bancos y por ultimo el Consejo se reduce al Ministro de
Hacienda y el Contralor General del Estado, limitando en esta ultima
oportunidad, sus competencias a considerair y aprobar los Estados
Financieros, designar la firma auditora para el proyecto, aprobar la liquidaci6n
del proyecto y, requerir informes sobre el cumplirmiento del programa operativo.
En lo que se refiere a la conducci6n del proyecto, a partir de 1996, la Direcci6n
T6cnica reasume su rol en sentido de tomar a su cargo la responsabilidad por
la ejecuci6n t6cnica del mismo. Esta situaci6n obedece a que hasta fines de
1995, el proyecto actuaba practicamente como un administrador de recursos
financieros y la conducci6n t6cnica obedecia a las decisiones de los
Subsecretarios de area, aspecto que dificult6 la coordinaci6n efectiva entre los
sistemas. Es a partir de esta nueva administraci6n, que se conisidera la mas
productiva del proyecto, que se han logrado avances significativos en cuanto
al desarrollo normativo y la implantaci6n de los sistemas de la Ley 1178.
Esta permanente rotaci6n de autoridades y ejecutivos del proyecto no permiti6
el desarrollo continuo del proyecto ya que los diferentes enfoques afectaron el
desenvolvimiento del mismo. Pese a esta situaci6n, se considera que el
cumplimiento de los principales objetivos son satisfactorios al Gobierno.
Ill.   Sostenibilidad
La sostenibilidad de los logros alcanzados con el PFMO I y el PFMO II, estan
intimamente relacionados con la sostenibilidad de la Ley 1178 en si, por lo
tanto, los siguientes factores son considerados criticos:
Conocimiento del Sistema Integrado de Administraci6n Financiera por parte
de las autoridades: el desconocimiento total a parcial de los beneficios de
la Ley 1178 acarrean dispersi6n de los esfuerzos y falta de continuidad en
el proceso de cambio;



7
* Voluntad politica: se requiere el total apoyo del Poder Ejecutivo para lograr
una implantaci6n de los sistemas de administraci6n financiera;
* Compromiso a largo plazo: la voluntad politica, aunada a disponibilidad de
recursos financieros debe mantenerse a lo largo del tiempo que dure el
proceso de implantaci6n de los sistemas de administraci6n financiera;
* Continuidad: es indispensable la continuidad en la direcci6n tecnica a
cargo de los sistemas, de manera que los esfuerzos sean orientados en un
solo sentido. En este aspecto debe considerarse seriamente la continuidad
en la tecnologia que se ha desarrollado a la fecha;
* Difusi6n y Capacitaci6n continua: los 6rganos rectores deben realizar una
difusi6n permanente acerca de los avances que se realizan en materia de
implantaci6n de sistemas y los beneficios que esto significa para el pa[s.
Lo que queda por hacer
Si bien hasta la fecha se ha logrado la implantaci6n del Sistema Integrado de
Informaci6n Financiera en la Administraci6n Central y gran parte de la
Administraci6n Regional, queda pendiente su implantaci6n en el ambito de los
gobiernos municipales y entidades descentralizadas.
En el ambito de la Administraci6n Central se debe todavia realizar la
comunicaci6n electr6nica, tanto para la transferencia de informaci6n, como la
transferencia electr6nica de solicitudes de pagos y pagos. En cuanto a la
implantaci6n misma de los sistemas establecidos en la Ley 1178, debe
realizarse un esfuerzo comunicacional y de capacitaci6n para dar a conocer el
modelo de administracion financiera y lograr su institucionalizaci6n.
De manera especifica, se debe realizar la transferencia tecnol6gica del SIIF al
personal del 6rgano rector para dar continuidad en su explotaci6n y evitar la
dependencia de agentes externos. Debe tomarse en cuenta que el sistema
computacional en su explotaci6n futura ha de requerir modificaciones y ajustes
propios de todo sistema. Si bien en la actualidad el proyecto se encuentra en
proceso de entrega del sistema, aun no se cuenta con el personal profesional
capacitado y con la formaci6n y experiencia requeridas.
El proceso de desarrollo del SIIF para las prefecturas departamentales es aun
basico, es decir que queda pendiente el desarrollo e implantaci6n de m6dulos
adicionales que enriqueceran su desempeno.
Los gobiernos municipales de mayor tamaho aun no cuentan con una
herramienta computacional de contabilidad integrada, por lo tanto un esfuerzo
en ese sentido deber ser considerado en un plazo no muy lejano.
La emisi6n tardia de la normativa de los sistemas de administraci6n financiera
ha relegado la Ley 1178, para evitar su total aplazamiento, el gobierno de
Bolivia debe hacer un gran esfuerzo en aras del cumplimiento de los preceptos
de la Ley 1178. En este sentido, debe considerarse una difusi6n masiva de la
filosofia, el enfoque sist6mico y la normativa basica de los sistemas, tanto en el



8
ambito gubernamental, como de la opini6n publica en general.
IV.   Desempeffo del Banco
El desempeno del Banco puede ser calificado como altamente satisfactorio
tanto en la etapa de identificaci6n, como en la ejecuci6n clel mismo. La
participaci6n de las misiones del Banco permiti6 el continuo ajuste a los
objetivos ocasionados por la dinamica de los cambios estructurales y
administrativos y prest6 un apoyo excepcional tanto en aspectos tecnicos
como estrat6gicos durante la ejecuci6n del proyecto.
V.   Desempefio del Prestatario
La participaci6n del gobierno en la ejecuci6n del proyecto fue satisfactoria por
el compromiso de Ilevar adelante los objetivos del proyecto. La irnplantaci6n de
los sistemas de la Ley 1178, es aun una prioridad del Gobierno, hasta Ilegar a
su institucionalizaci6n en los diferentes niveles del sector publico.
VI.   Resultados
Si bien el proyecto no alcanz6 la totalidad ije resultados originalmente
planteados, se considera que los resultados que se alcanzaron son
satisfactorios ya que con las herramientas computacionales desarrolladas en
el proyecto, el gobierno, en un plazo no muy lejano, podr-a contar con
informacion oportuna de un gran porcentaje de instituciones financiadas con
recursos del Tesoro General de la Naci6n. Por otro lado, con la aprobaci6n de
la totalidad de las normas basicas de los sistemas; de administraci6n financiera
(incluyendo los sistemas de Planificacion e Inversi6n P1ublica), el Estado
boliviano esta orientando sus acciones al ordenamiento en la administraci6n
de los recursos publicos, aspecto que permitira una mejor asignaci6n de los
mismos.
Los principales beneficios logrados y que representan avances hacia la
institucionalizaci6n de un sistema de administraci6n financiera en el sector
publico son:
 El SIIF implantado en la Administraci6n Central es una herrarmienta con tres
ahos de explotaci6n, habiendo mostrado su capacidad para sostener la
operativa del TGN, contando con una informaci6n oportuna y de mayor
confiabilidad;
* Con la adecuaci6n e implantaci6n del SIIF en seis de las nueve prefecturas
departamentales, se ha demostrado la versatilidad del sistema y tambien se
ha Ilevado a cabo un gran avance en aras de implantar un solo sistema en
el sector p6blico;
 El exito obtenido en el proyecto piloto de comunicacion electr6nica
permitira, en pr6ximo futuro la conexi6n de las enticiades de la
Administraci6n Central en tiempo real, no s6lo con fines cle captura de
informaci6n financiera, sino tambien para la transferencia electronica de
recursos. Esta ultima ventaja estara tambi6n disponible para el ambito



9
descentralizado y departamental.
La normativa de los sistemas de administraci6n financiera permitira un
ordenamiento sist6mico y uniforme en el uso de los recursos del estado en
aras de lograr la eficacia y eficiencia y la transparencia.
VIl. Operaci6n Futura
El Gobierno de Bolivia ha firmado un contrato para la Tercera Fase del
proyecto, bajo la denominaci6n de "Proyecto de Descentralizaci6n Financiera y
Respondabilidad (Accountability)". Con esta tercera fase se tiene previsto
implantar el SIIF en las nueve prefecturas departamentales, diez municipios
representativos y en doce entidades descentralizadas aut6nomas. El sistema a
ser implantado comprende ademas m6dulos para activos fijos, almacenes,
personal y adquisiciones, de esta manera, el sistema estarfa institucionalizado
en un grupo de instituciones que representaria, aproximadamente, el 90% de
los recursos del Presupuesto General de la Naci6n. Esta implantaci6n incluye
ademas, la difusion de los sistemas de la Ley 1178.
VIII. Principales Lecciones Aprendidas
Las principales lecciones aprendidas durante la ejecuci6n del Proyecto ILACO
pueden ser enumeradas de la siguiente manera:
- Con una adecuada conducci6n tecnica y el apoyo de las autoridades, se
puede lograr mayor eficiencia y eficacia en el cumplimiento de objetivos
* La poca injerencia politica en proyectos de esta naturaleza permite la
continuidad en la conducci6n t6cnica requerida para el cumplimiento de
objetivos
* La coordinaci6n entre las diferentes areas involucradas en la
Administraci6n Financiera realizadas a trav6s de profesionales altamente
capacitados ha conseguido una mayor comprensi6n de los sistemas y la
participaci6n de un mayor numero de usuarios capacitados
* La alta rotaci6n de funcionarios del sector publico es todavia un obstaculo
que impide la institucionalizaci6n de los sistemas, este factor se refiere
tanto a personal t6cnico como autoridades
* Los bajos salarios que se pagan en el sector publico constituyen un
obstaculo en la contrataci6n de profesionales capacitados



