Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2279 BO
(Public Financial Management II Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 20, 1991
CREDIT NUMBER 2279 BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 20, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
Page  2
(a)
"Accounting Guidelines for Public Enterprises" means Guia de Contabilidad 
Integrada para Empresas Publicas dated May 21, 1991;
(b)
"Accounting Standards for Decentralized Institutions" means the Normas de 
Contabilidad Integrada para Instituciones Decentralizadas dated May 21, 1991;
(c)
"Banking Network" means all public and private banks within the territory 
of the Borrower;
(d)
"Central Bank" means Banco Central de Bolivia, the Central Bank of the 
Borrower;
(e)
"Central Government Institutions" means those national government 
Eligible Public Entities or their subsidiaries which carry on their activities in the 
territory of the Borrower and whose finances are managed centrally through the TGN (as 
hereinafter defined);
(f)
"CGR" means Contraloria General de la Republica, the Borrower's Supreme 
Audit institution;
(g)
"CONSAFCO" means the council composed of the Borrower's Ministers of 
Finance and of Planning and Coordination, the Comptroller General, the President of 
the Central Bank and such other members as provided in Article 2 of the Borrower's 
Supreme Decree No. 22104, dated November 6, 1987 (hereinafter referred to as 
"Additional Members"), which shall oversee implementation of the SAFCO Law and of the 
Project;
(h)
"Decentralized Institutions" means Eligible Public Entities which are 
managed independently of central or local government;
(i)
"Deputy Comptroller" means the deputy comptroller general within the CGR;
 
(j)
"Eligible Public Entities" means those public entities, wholly or 
partially owned by the Borrower, selected by CONSAFCO and accepted by the Association 
for participation in Part A of the Project;
(k)
"Emergency Program Staff" means staff recruited, or to be recruited, by 
the MF on terms agreed between the Borrower and the Association;
(l)
"GAO" means Contaduria General del Estado, (General Accounting Office) of 
the Borrower;
(m)
"General State Accountant" means the Contador General del Estado, the 
person who heads the GAO;
(n)
"MF" means Ministerio de Finanzas (Ministry of Finance) of the Borrower;
 
(o)
"PAO" means the Programa Anual de Operacion, Annual Operating Plan, of 
the Borrower, containing information relating to the carrying out of the Project in 
each following year, of such scope and detail as is satisfactory to the Borrower and 
the Association;
(p)
"Public Enterprises" means those production enterprises owned by the 
Borrower;
(q)
"Project Technical Director" means the person referred to in Section 3.03 
(v) of this Agreement;
(r)
"Project Management Unit" means the executing unit empowered to act on 
behalf of CONSAFCO, to be maintained pursuant to Section 3.03 (iv) of this Agreement;
(s)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
February 17, 1991 and May 3, 1991 between the Borrower and the Association and a 
further letter, dated June 18, 1991, from the Association to the Borrower increasing 
such project preparation advance, accepted by the Borrower on September 6, 1991;
(t)
"Regional Development Corporations" means all of the nine development 
corporations of the Borrower's departamentos (geographical areas);
(u)
"SAFCO Law" means Law 1178, dated July 20, 1990 (Ley de Administracion y 
Control Gubernamental), the Governmental Management and Control Law;
Page  3
(v)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(w)
"TGN" means the Tesoro General de la Nacion, (National General Treasury) 
of the Borrower;
(x)
"USAID" means the U.S. Agency for International Development; and
 
(y)
"USAID Balance of Payments Agreement" means the agreement, dated May 9, 
1991, between the Borrower and USAID for the management and use of local currency 
generated from economic support funds from which local funds shall be furnished for 
the Project, together with the letter from the USAID to the Borrower dated May 21, 
1991.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eight million, five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 8,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
Page  4
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2001 and ending March 15, 2031. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2011 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
financial, administrative and training practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) hereof, the 
Borrower shall provide, pursuant to the USAID Balance of Payments Agreement, funds for 
the Project in an amount equivalent to at least $11,000,000 (eleven million dollars).
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the duration of the 
Project:
(i)
in the position of Deputy Comptroller, a person who shall have all 
necessary skills and qualifications for such position, inter alia, 
extensive training and experience at an international level, in 
the application of generally accepted accounting principles, 
auditing standards and auditing management;
(ii)
in the position of General State Accountant, a person who shall 
have all necessary skills and qualifications for such position, 
inter alia, a strong background in, and knowledge of, accounting 
and government financial management;
(iii)
CONSAFCO, with such functions and such Additional Members as shall 
be acceptable to the Association;
(iv)
a Project Management Unit of CONSAFCO, with such functions and 
composed of such members with qualifications and experience as 
shall be acceptable to the Association, and assisted by a 
Page  5
qualified staff in adequate numbers; and 
(v)
in the position of Project Technical Director of the Project 
Management Unit, a person appointed by CONSAFCO with 
qualifications and experience suitable for such position and 
acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower, through the Project Technical Director, shall:
(i)
obtain from each Eligible Public Entity all relevant information 
required to prepare bi-annual progress reports by no later than 
February 28 and August 31 in each year concerning the execution of 
the Project;
(ii)
prepare such bi-annual progress reports which shall include, inter 
alia, information concerning the number of Eligible Public 
Entities: (a) participating in the integrated accounting system, 
and reporting their financial statements to the GAO; and (b) 
formulating their own budgets, and showing each such Eligible 
Public Entity's corresponding percentage contribution to the 
Borrower's budget; and 
(iii)
in each year, and before Congressional approval of the annual 
budget, present to the Borrower's Congress a report based on the 
bi-annual reports referred to in paragraph (ii) of this Section, 
which shall consolidate the information contained therein, 
together with a progress report on the current status of 
implementation of the SAFCO Law.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
for each year during the execution of the Project, prepare and submit to 
the Association a PAO, by November 15 in each year, starting in November 1991 with 
respect to the carrying out of the Project in 1992; and
(b)
refrain from entering into any new contract for purchase of goods or 
employment of consultants under any given PAO until such PAO has been approved by the 
Association.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall establish adequate recruitment, hiring and 
employment procedures and terms, satisfactory to the Association, in relation to both 
the higher level positions in CGR (of which, by no later than 1993, there shall be 
approximately 23) and line positions in MF (of which initially there shall be 
approximately 85).
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause: (a) its ministries and the Eligible 
Public Entities to start to formulate their own budgets, as provided in Part A.1 of 
the Project, by December 31, 1992; and (b) the Regional Development Corporations and 
Central Government Institutions and Decentralized Institutions to start to formulate 
their own budgets, as provided in Part A.1 of the Project, by December 31, 1993.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) complete the organizational changes for 
cash management in TGN, under Part A.2 of the Project, not later than December 31, 
1992; (b) cause the payment system through the Banking Network, under Part A.2 of the 
Project, to be operative not later than June 30, 1992 including, inter alia, the 
issuance of adequate daily statements, computer controls, audits and sanctions for 
non-compliance with agreed banking services; and (c) furnish to the Association, not 
later than December 31, 1991, a timetable, satisfactory to the Association, for 
carrying out the elimination, under Part A.2 of the Project, of subtreasuries within 
TGN, such elimination to be completed not later than December 31, 1992 including, 
inter alia, the changes in the Banking Network referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall complete the carrying out of: (a) Part A.3 (a) 
(i) of the Project not later than June 30, 1993; (b) Part A.3 (a) (ii) of the Project 
not later than June 30, 1994; (c) Part A.3 (b) of the Project not later than December 
31, 1994; and (d) Part A.3 (c) of the Project not later than December 31, 1994.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall complete the carrying out of: (a) Part A.3 (d) 
of the Project not later than December 31, 1994; and (b) Part A.4 of the Project not 
later than June 30, 1996.
Page  6
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall cause CGR: (a) to prepare, for inclusion in 
each PAO, an annual audit plan, satisfactory to the Association, for the carrying out 
of external audits and management systems analyses of selected Eligible Public 
Entities; and (b) (i) not later than December 31, 1994, to have completed at least 100 
such external audits and management systems analyses for at least 50 Eligible Public 
Entities; and (ii) not later than June 30, 1996, to undertake or cause to be 
undertaken such external audits and management systems analyses, annually, in respect 
of at least 25% of the total Eligible Public Entities.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall cause the Emergency Program Staff to be 
absorbed by GAO not later than June 30, 1992.
Section 3.13. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall arrange with USAID, pursuant to the USAID 
Balance of Payments Agreement, to review with the Association, not later than November 
30 of each year during the execution of the Project, starting not later than November 
30, 1991, the performance of the Borrower and its agencies and departments, during the 
previous twelve months, in the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.14. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall: (a) not later than November 30, 1994, review 
with the Association the progress achieved in carrying out the Project measured 
against performance indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Association; and 
(b)
if the results of the review referred to in paragraph (a) hereof, are not 
satisfactory to the Association, the Borrower shall take all such remedial action as 
shall be necessary, in the opinion of the Association, to achieve the objectives of 
the Project and to carry out the Project as provided in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
Page  7
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the SAFCO Law, or any provision thereof, shall have been amended, 
abrogated, waived or suspended in a manner that, in the opinion of the Association, 
materially and adversely effects the carrying out of the Project;
(b)
the USAID Balance of Payments Agreement shall have been amended or 
terminated and such amendment or termination shall have, in the opinion of the 
Association, materially and adversely affected the execution of the Project;
(c)
the Borrower shall have made any modification to the organizational 
structures of either the MF or the CGR which, in the opinion of the Association, may 
materially and adversely affect the execution of the Project; and
(d)
either CGR or GAO shall have ceased to be an independent entity.
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that any event specified in 
paragraph (a) or (b) or (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date December 20, 1991 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Coordination of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Planeamiento y Coordinacion
La Paz
Bolivia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINPLANEACION
3280 (MINCORD BV)
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  8
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Samuel Doria Medina
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Consultants'              5,450,000       100% of foreign
      services and                              expenditures
      training
(2)   Goods for                   600,000       100% of foreign
      Parts A and C                             expenditures
      of the Project
(3)   Project                     300,000       100% of foreign
      Administration                            expenditures
      Expenses
(4)   Refunding of              1,140,000       Amounts due
      Project                                   pursuant to
      Preparation                               Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                   of this Agreement
(5)   Unallocated                 830,000
      TOTAL                     8,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the terms: (i) "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower; and (ii) "Project Administration Expenses" means expenditures incurred by 
the Project Management Unit, including consultants' fees, office equipment and travel 
expenses.
Page  9
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the efficiency, effectiveness and 
transparency of the Borrower's resource management system through: (i) 
institutionalization of program-based budgeting, cash, debt and other resources 
management, and auditing procedures in Eligible Public Entities and Decentralized 
Institutions; (ii) enhancement of the institutional capacity to implement such 
procedures, both at the Borrower's central and local government levels through the 
definition of standards and procedures, in particular, the public disclosure, 
publicity, accountability and obligations of public servants, that would enforce 
provisions of the SAFCO Law; (iii) strengthening the capacity of the CGR and provision 
of ex-post control functions in the Borrower's government, necessary for 
accountability for results in the public sector; and (iv)
development of skilled manpower to sustain such procedures.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Financial Management and Control
 
1.
Transfer of the responsibility for budget formulation from MF to Eligible Public 
Entities, introduction of evaluation procedures for Eligible Public Entities and 
improvement of the ability of the MF's budget subsecretariats and Regional Development 
Corporations to formulate budgets and evaluate their execution.
2.
Development and implementation of a system to integrate cash management and 
public credit functions in the TGN and define institutional responsibilities through 
regulations and procedures. Elimination of subtreasuries within the TGN and 
substitution therefor by a payment system operating through the Banking Network. 
Introduction and review of treasury and public credit regulations and commissions 
charged for public services.
3.
(a)
(i) Development of financial management systems for 14 selected Eligible 
Public Entities; and (ii) the dissemination of such systems for approximately 116 
Decentralized Institutions.
(b)
Adaptation of the Accounting Standards for Decentralized Institutions to 
approximately 58 decentralized Eligible Public Entities which shall be other than the 
14 Eligible Public Entities selected in accordance with (a) above.
(c)
Adaptation of the Accounting Guidelines for Public Enterprises to 50 
Eligible Public Entities that cannot finance the development of their own accounting 
systems.
(d)
Introduction of uniform accounting and classification methods, and 
development and implementation of simple budgeting, treasury and accounting systems 
for about 90 small local Eligible Public Entities which receive budgetary allocations. 
Creation and implementation of a nationwide public sector financial data base. 
4.
Provision of assistance to CGR to improve government auditing. Development of 
standards, guidelines, manuals and regulations relating to auditing of Eligible Public 
Entities, reporting requirements for public funds and for internal organization within 
CGR. Reorganization of CGR (by means, inter alia, of the establishment of the 
Technical Programming Office, the Legal Affairs Office and the Office of the Deputy 
Comptroller) to improve its ability to monitor, improve and assess administrative and 
control systems in accounting and management. Development of CGR's capacity to carry 
out its responsibilities and duties under the SAFCO Law, including preparation of 
regulations.
5.
Acquisition and utilization of computer hardware and software and materials 
required to carry out Part A of the Project.
Part B:
Standards and Regulations under the SAFCO Law
 
Technical assistance for the review of legislative requirements and preparation 
Page  10
of draft regulations and standard procedures in the areas of: operations programming; 
public personnel management (including development of selection criteria and 
compensation packages for TGN paid public officials); procurement and management of 
goods and services; interinstitutional organization; and treasury and public credit 
standards for Eligible Public Entities.
Part C:
Training in Financial Management, Administration and Control Systems
 
Training and provision of courses to explain and disseminate the Borrower's 
financial management, administration and control systems and procedures. Training of 
additional personnel needed in MF and CGR. Design of a masters degree program in 
accounting and management. Establishment of at least four training classrooms in two 
regions of the country and improvement of the classrooms of the La Paz training 
center, together with a specialized library, a day care center, and appropriate 
materials and equipment. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Association in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
(a)
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $20,000 per contract, 
but less than $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, 
may be procured in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory 
to the Association.
(b)
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Association.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract awarded as provided in Part A hereof, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) 
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals on the basis 
of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
Page  11
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Association in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $600,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
Page  12
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
