Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 961 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
SONGO SONGO PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
(CREDIT S/27-TA)
AND
SECOND SONGO SONGO PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1199-TA)
MAY 31, 1991
Industry and Energy Division
Technical Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cm - centimeter              =    0.39 inches
1 in - meter                   -    3.28 feet
1 m3 - cubic meter             -    264 US gallons
1 1 - liter                    =    0.26 gallors
1 bbl - barrel                 -    42 US gallons
1 kg - kilogram                     -    2.2 pounds
1 km - kilometer               -    0.62 miles
1 km2 _ square kilometer       -    0.39 square miles
1 t - ton                      =    2,205 pounds
1 kW - kilowatt                -    1,000 watts
1 MW - megawatt                -    1,000 kilowatts
1 kWh - kilowatthour                1,000 watthours
1 GWh - gigawatthour           -    1 million kilowatthours
ABBREVIATIONS
API       American Petroleum Institute
BCF       Billion Cubic Feet
ECU       European Currency Unit
EIB       European Investment Bank
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
LIT       Limited International Tendering
MMCF      Million Cubic Feet
MMCFD     Million Cubic Feet per Day
MWEM      Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals
NORAD     Norwegian Agency for International Development
ONGC      Oil and Natural Gas Commission (India)
OPEC      Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
TANESCO   Tanzania Electric Supply Corp.
TIB       Tanzania Investment Bank
TPDC      Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Washington, D.C 20433
U.S.A.
Ofike dE DectiwGerwa
Opuations EYaUlMh.
May 31, 1991
MfEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESID6NT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on United Republic of Tanzania
Songo Songo Petroleum Exploration Project (Credit S/27-TA) and
Second Songo Songo Petroleum Exploration Project (Credit 1199-TA)
Attached, for information. is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on United Republic of Tanzania - Songo Songo Petroleum
Exploration Project (Credit S/27-TA) and Second Songo Songo Petroleum Exploration
Project (Credit 1199-TA)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of
this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
SONGO SONGO PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT CR S/27-TA
AND
SECOND SONGO SONGO PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT CR 1199-TA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE     .......................                 . .i
EVALUATION SU11MARY .ii
PART I; PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . .     1
Projects Identity..                                          1
Background  ..1
Project Objectives a,ad Description Cr S/27-TA  . . . . .    2
Project Objectives a,d Description Cr 1199-TA  .             3
Project Design and O-ganization  . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Implementation of the Projects . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
Results  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .....  .    10
Project Sustainability ... .  .  .  .  .    .. .  .  .  .  .  .    .   10
Performance of Contractors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Performance of Consultants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Performance of Borrower  ....  .   ......  .  .      .  .   .    11
Performance of the Bank  ....  .   ......  .  .  .  .   .    12
Project Relatior.ship ....  .  .  .    .....  .  .  .  .  .   .   12
Lessons Learned  ....  .  .  .   ......  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    13
Project Documentation and Data . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . .  N/A
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
nf thbir nffie; I dilti-Q  It- rnnt.fnts rr v Pnt nthwrw   - .  - ri' -I r    I    'ithrt -1'F-rd  n  nL-  'thnri7 t' n



i
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
SONGO SONGO PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT (CR S/27-TA)
AND
SECOND SONGO SONGO PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT CR 1199-TA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the First and
Second Songo Songo Petroleum Exploration Projects; Credit S/27-TA and
Credit 1199-TA in the amounts of US$30.0 million and SDR17.4 million
respectively. Credit. S/27-TA was approved on June 12, 1980 and closed
on September 30, '982.   It was 100 percent disbursed and the last
disbursement was on September 30, 1982. Credit 1199-TA was approved on
December 22, 1981 and closed on December 31, 1983. It was 100 percent
disbursed and the last disbursement was on September 10. 1984.
These projects were cLosed 8 and 7 years ago respectively and
it has been impossible to obtain the missing information on costs from
the borrower.    The cost information  is not  in the Bank's  files.
Likewise, the information normally provided on mission timing etc., is
incomplet, in the Bank's records. The borrower has been asked for the
cost information and to submit Part II. but has not responded.
The PCR was prepared by the Industry and Energy Division of
the Africa Region Technical Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary,
Parts I and III).
Preparation of this PCR was started during a mission to
Tanzania in November 1988 and is based, inter alia, on the President's
Reports; the Credit and Project Agreements; supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; discussion with
members of the project team; and internal Bank memoranda.



ii
UN:TED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
SONGO SONGO PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT (CR S/27-TA)
AND
SECOND SONGO SONGO PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT (CR 1199-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARI
Backgroundand Oblectives
1.        In 1974, while exploring for petroleum in offshore Tanzania,
AGIP/SA made a gas discovery in the vicinity of Songo Songo Island about
150 km south of Dar-es-Salaam. AGIP relinquished their rights to TPDC
(Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation) who soon contracted ONGC
(Oil & Natural Gas Commission, India) to undertake further evaluation of
the discovery. After 3 wells ONGC declined to continue appraisal and
development of the field and TPDC approached the World Bank to assist.
A technical assistance project, Cr 601-TAN, undertook to study the area,
come up with recommendations and prepare a drilling program.
2.        On June 30, 1980 a credit (Cr S/27-TA) for US$30.0 million was
signed, whose objectives were to: (i) assess the oil/gas potential of
the Songo Songo area, (ii) provide technical assistance to the Ministry
of Water, Energy and Minerals (MWEM) in formulating energy policy,
designing exploration strategy, and assessing the gas market: and (iii)
provide technical assistance and training in overall project and
financial management. On January 13, 1982 a Second Songo Songo Project
(Credit 1199-TA) for SDR17.4 million was signed, which provided for the
drilling of three additional wells (if justified), reservoir engineering
studies and on-the-job training of Tanzanian counterparts.
3.        Initially, the objective of the project and the drilling was
to evaluate the gas reserves and confirm some oil shows reportedly found
in well SS-3. Failing to find oil, the thrust could be diverted to the
identification and appraisal of additional gas reserves.
Implementation Experience
4.        The first well to be drilled in the program, SS-6, an on-shore
well, was fraught with problems.   Logging equipment was held up in
customs; drill bits, cementing equipment and 7 inch casing were all late
in arriving; and the well never reached the programmed total depth
because of the drill pipe breaking.  The producing sands in previous
wells were not found to be productive here, hence the well was declared
dry.   Some minor problems  attributed to poor mud management were
encountered. The second well, SS-5, encountered a 750 ft gas column in
the Albian and was completed with a wellhead.
5.        Songo Songo 7, the first well drilled in the second project,
was drilled to the deep objective within the Jurassic which was found
dry; however, it was completed as a gas well in the Albian as in SS-5.



iii
Well SS-8, was also drilled to the deep objective and all horizons were
dry, (no gas). The well was abandoned. After some deliberation TPDC
decided to proceed with SS-9 as a deviated well but the equipment
necessary to accomplish the deviation was out of order, hence the well
was drilled vertically. The well encountered the producing horizon and
tested gas. The well was completed as a producer with a wellhead.
6.        In a strict sense the project was successful in delineating
natural gas reserves, but failed to identify an oil resource as there is
probably no oil to be found.  The welis could have been drilled with
less expense with better project management, especially during the First
Songo Songo Exploration Project. Probably some unsuccessful wells could
have been avoided by taking more care with the original geophysical
interpretation.   This is one of the least expensive aspects of any
exploration program, but can have great impact on the overall cost.
Lessons Learned
7.        Efficient  implementation of the Songo Songo Projects was
hindered by lack of clearly defined management authority. The drilling
manager was given conflicting instructions from TPDC's staff and its
petroleum advisor and, subsequently, from the advisor to the Minister.
The authority of the drilling manager was gradually increased.   The
lesson for future exploration projects with inexperienced national oil
companies  (assuming that experienced oil company partnership is not
possible) is that a detailed drilling program should be prepared by the
drilling manager and agreed with government officials at the start. A
project implementation unit should be set up, with clear lines of
authority and responsibilities, where results could be reviewed and
problems could be resolved.   Once the program has been agreed, the
drilling manager must be given absolute authority for the conduct of the
drilling.   Government's local currency contribution should be placed
under the manager's authority in advance.
8.        In  principle,   the  two  projects  offered  an  excellent
opportunity for on-the-job training, supplemented by overseas training.
In practice, the training objective has only been moderately successful.
The principal problem appears to have been lack of sufficiently
qualified and motivated candidates.   In the future it is recommended
that the drilling manager and the exploration advisor should prepare
detailed training programs, for agreement with the Govetnment, who in
turn should identify suitable candidates with assured availability for
the proposed training. Strict assessment of the candidate's performance
must be built in. This applies not only to drilling but to all aspects
of the operations including exploration, financial planning, accounting
and management.
9.        The Tanzania Songo Songo project is an example of a 'sub-
commercial" oil and/or gas field where Bank involvement in helping
developing countries can be very positive, provided there is an economic
use  for the  resource.   The Songo Songo Exploration project   was
successful in finding the gas, but it is still undeveloped.  It would
have been appropriate to investigate gas uses and economics in greater
depth before executing the drilling program.



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
SONGO PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT CR S/27-TA
AND
SECOND SONGO PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT CR 1199-TA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Prolects Identity
1.        Names           I    First and Second Songo Petroleum
Exploration Projects
Credit Numbers s    Cr S/27-TA and Cr 1199-TA
RVP Unit        :   Africa Region
Country         s   United Republic of Tanzania
Sector          :    Energy
Subsector       :    Petroleum
Background
2.        Total energy consumption in Tanzania in 1979 was approximately
7.5 million tons of coal equivalent, i.e., 500 kg per capita. Of this
total onlv 1.2 million tons or 16Z was represented by commercial energy
(mainly imported crude oil and refined products which accounted for 95
percent of all commercial energy, the rest being made up by coal and
hydro). Between 1960-72, demand for commercial energy grew at an average
rate of 7.2 percent per year. The growth rate fell drastically, however,
to 1.4 percent between 19/3-77 following steep increases in product prices
reflecting higher costs of imported supplies, and measures to curb gasoline
consumption by imposition of restricted driving practices. In 1978-79 the
petroleum import bill was US$110 million and accounted for about 30 percent
of Tanzania's merchandise imports.
3.        At appraisal, Tanzania had large and diversified potential
energy resources. Its inferred coal reserves were 1500 million tons; its
hydro potential estimated at 2100MW; and it had vast sedimentary areas
suitable for oil and gas generation and accumulation.
4.        Since 1969, AGIP/SA (Italy) had been exploring for petroleum in
offshore Tanzania under a production sharing agreement. In 1974, AGIP made
a gas discovery in the Songo Songo area, about 150 km south of Dar-es-
Salaam, and quickly decided it could not be developed and produced in an
economical manner and relinquished its rights to Songo Songo to the
Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC). Between 1976 and 1979,
TPDC contracted the Oil & Natural Gas Commission of India, (ONGC) to drill
two more wells on the structure. Although the first well, SS-2, blew out,
caught fire and was lost, the next two wells, SS-3 and SS-4, were



- 2 -
productive and one of them, SS-3, indicated the presence of oil. TPDC
requested ONGC to assist them in the appraisal and development of Songo
Songo, but ONGC declined sinc" th6y were already financially committed
elsewhere.
5.        In September 1979, the Minister of Water, Energy, and Minerals
requested Bank Group assistance for the appraisal. and development project.
Two studies were financed by a technical assistance credit (601 TAN) which
undertook to analyze the technical data, confirm the exiscence ox natural
gas and prepare a drilling program.
Project CbJectives and Description - Cr S/27-TA
6.        Proiect Obiectives:  The main objectives of the project were:
(a) To assess the oil/gas potential of the Songo Songo area;
(b) To provide technical assistance to the Ministry of Water, Energy
& Minerals (MWEM) in:
(i)     overall energy policy formulation,
(ii)     designing an exploration strategy in petroleum, and
(iii)     assessing the potential market for natural gas.
(c) To provide technical assistance and training to TPDC in:
(i)     overall project management (Songo Songo); and
(ii)     financial management.
7.        Project Components:  The project consisted of two phases;
(a) Phase 1: (1) Assessment of the oil and gas potential of the
Songo Songo field by the drilling and testing of an off-shore
and an on-shore well, and the provision of materials and
consumables including exploration and drilling management
services. (2) Training of TPDC's staff in logging, formation
evaluation, reservoir description, material and logistic
management, financial and ope:ational management and seismic
data processing and interpretation.
(b) Phase II: (1) Completion of the wells (above) for production.
(2) Consultants' services to carry out feasibility, reservoir
and engineering studies for the development of the reservoirs.
(3) Provision of exploration and drilling management services to
carry out the drilling and testing of further wells and on-the-
job training of TPDC's staff.  (4) TechnKal assistance to MWEM
to review the fiscal and management structure of TPDC,
preparation of an energy development plan, formulation of a
long-term exploration and petroleum negotiation strategy and
assessment of the medium and long-term potential for the
utilization of natural gas in Tanzania.



Project Objectives and Description - Cr 1199-TA
8.        Project Objectives:  This project was a continuation of the
previous project (Cr S/27-TA).  The primary objective of the project was to
explore for oil, particularly in the deeper horizons of the Songo Songo
field. In the process, the drilling would confirm the estimates of the
quantities of gas discovered during the First Songo Songo Petroleum
Exploration Project; show whether any recoverable liquid hydrocarbons were
present; and explore further for gas.
9.        Project Components:  The project consisted of three parts;
(a) Part A. Assessment of the offshore oil and gas potential of the
Songo Songo field by the drilling, testing, evaluation and if
justified, completion of three wells in the Songo Songo field.
(b) Part B. Preparation of reservoir engineering studies and of a
field development plan.
(c)  Part C:  On-the-job training of TPDC staff in drilling
operations, geological interpretation and geochemical analysis.
Project Design and Organization
10.       The period between the late 70s and early 80s was a time of high
oil prices, and petroleum importing countries were looking for alternative
sources of energy. The timing was appropriate for Tanzania to seek to
delineate an oil and gas discovery. However, because the project was
poorly designed, Tanzania has not as yet been able to utilize indigenous
energy resources (the Songo Songo natural gas). There were institutional
problems within TPDC which hampered the smooth operations of the project.
TPDC did not establish a Project Implementation Unit which could have been
charged with the sole responsibility of project planning, scheduling,
supervision and management. There were unclear responsibilities of the
drilling manager. No one associated with the project anticipated that
equipment would be tied up in customs and not available when needed. The
Natural Gas Utilization Study should have been carried out prior to the
implementation of the exploration project in order to determine whether or
not a market exists for the gas in the Tanzanian economy, and set up the
priorities for the utilization of the gas.
11.       The First Songo Songo Project (Cr S127-TA) was appraised in
January 1980 and the Credit Agreement was signed on June 30, 1980. As was
common in this type of project, only a President's Report was prepared.
Terms of reference for the dril_ ag consultant and the exploration
consultant were drawn up before the appraisal mission.  The ex, :.ration
consultant used for the project was the same as the one which E s used for
the feasibility study. To finance studies which would take place before
the effectiveness of the credit, the Government requested a PPF in the
amount of US$400,000. The total project cost was estimated at US$49.5
million of which US$45.0 million would be foreign exchange. IDA's
contribution was set at $30.0 million due mainly to the necessity of having



- 4 -
all of the drilling funds in place when the drilling starts. The EIB
agreed to contribute 350,000 ECU (US$500,000).
12.       The EIB funds were designated to be used as follows:
(a) 18 months consultancy services in the MWEM in the field of
Petroleum Economics,
(b) 18 months consultancy services for a Senior Explorationist,
(c) 12 months consultancy services for a Natural Gas Utilization
Study.
13.       The first project was designed to finance four wells; however,
should the results of the first two wells be negative, then the project
could stop at that point and the remainder of the funds would be cancelled.
Because of unexpected delays and extra expenses attendant with these
delays, the financing could only be used for two wells. The remaining two
wells had to be financed from the second project.
14.       The Second Songo Songo Project (Cr 1199-TA) was appraised in
September 1981, and the Credit became effective on February 23, 1982. As
in the First Songo Songo Project, only a President's Report was prepared.
The contracts for the drilling and exploration consultants were extended so
that they would be available for this project. IDA's share of the project
was estimated at appraisal to be SDRl7.4 million (US$20.0 million
approximately). From the OPEC Fund, an amount equivalent to US$12.0
million, and from the EIB an amount equivalent to US$8.0 million would be
contributed to the project. It was agreed that the cofinancing ratio
between IDA, EIB and OPEC would be as follows; IDA 50 percent, OPEC 30
percent and EIB 20 percent. This percentage was changed for the financing
of the SS-9 well where IDA's pcrtion was 62.5 percent and OPEC's was 37.5
percent due to EIB's reluctance to finance SS-9. As in the first project,
TPDC was designated the implementing agetucy.
Implementation of the Projects
15.       The following is a rather detailed account of the drilling
activities in the project, and the difficultie- and problems which were
encountered. These problems greatly influenced the overall cost of the
project and possibly could have been avoided, for the most part, by
assigning responsibility and accountability to a certralized authority
within a Project Implementation Unit.
16.       Songo Songo 6:  This well was the first one to be drilled under
Cr S/27-TA and was spudded (started) on Jan 23, 1981. Problems arose early
with the customs clearance for the logging equipment so that the equipment
was not available for the first logging run; hence the decision was made to
abandon the logging run scheduled at 3000 feet. At a depth of about 6700
ft, the exploration consultant recommended that the well be plugged and
abandoned as a nonproducer from the Albian reservoir sands. The Bank,
however, recommended that drilling continue to about 11,000 feet or 200
feet into the Jurassic shale. The main producing sands in SS-3 and SS-4
were found very low in SS-6, the main sand body only 16 feet above the
gas/water contac-. After reinterpreting the seismic data, the exploration



- 5 -
consultant agreed with ti- Bank's recommendation to drill abead. In
attempting to drill ahea.4 -he drill pipe immediately twisted off. All
attempts to extract the drill pipe from the hole were futile and the well
was subsequently abaaidoned after drilling no more hole and wasting over a
month attempting to retrieve the lost drill pipe. At the request of TPDC
and against the strong recommendations of the drilling consultant, tubing
was set in the hole and the project's only wellhead (at the time) was
installed on the well. The well was officially suspended on April 9, 1981
at a d-pth of 6,718 feet.  Aside from sone of the delays mentioned above,
further delays were encountered by (i) lete arrival of drill bits, (ii) the
off-loading jetty collapsing, (iii) late arrival of cementing equipment,
and (iv) late arrival of casing for the middle section of the hole.
Subsequent to the drilling of this well it was recognized that technical
difficulties were aggravated by managerial problems especially the absence
of close and effective project control.
17.       Songo Songo 5:  This weAl, the first one to be drilled offshore,
was spudded on May 26, 1981 using the posted drill barge, Vermillion Bay.
As the planned follow-up wells to SS-5 coulu not be drilled by the barge
because of excessive water depth, it was suggested that the drill barge be
used by selecting locations in ehallow water which could be drilled from
the barge. This, of course, assumed that SS-5 would be a producer. At
about 5700 ft, the drillpipe became stuck in the hole and twisted off.
Rather than attempt to extract the pipe, it was decided to sidetrack,
anticipating that attempts at retrieval could continue for weeks.
Investigations afterwards pinpointed that hole problems; which caused the
stuck pipe, were exacerbated by insufficient mud additives being available
on the rig site, caused by poor planning on the part of the drilling
consultants. A drill stem test in the zone 5616-5721 feet confirmed the
existence of a 750 ft gas column and suggested overall reserves in the
Songo Songo gas field of about .8 trillion cubic feet. Plans to drill the
well deeper were abandoned and the well was suspended with a Christmas tree
(an oil well control device installed on the surface).
18.       Songo Songo 7:  This well, which was the second offshore well in
the program and was the first well drilled under the project Cr 1199-TA,
was spudded on October 16, 1981 using the same drill barge. The hole was
deviatad so as to allow testing of the reservoir from a location suitable
for the drilling barge. After spudding and drilling to 405 ft, operations
were shut down for over two weeks waiting on the arrival of the casing for
the upper part of the well. This delay was caused by problems in the issue
of letters of credit. Four attempts were made to cement the next section
of casing at 3929 ft. Failure appeared to be due to lack of spare parts
for the mud pumps which seemed to break down during the cementing process.
Upon completion of the cementing job, drilling did not commence because
there was no barite (weight additive for the mud) on board the rig,
entailing about one week shut-down. At a depth of 4040 ft a rather strong
gas zone was encountered which in SS-5 had not been gas bearing. The well
was drilled to a total depth of 11,080 ft and was finally plugged back to
7148 ft fcr final production. The well flowed on a production test at a
rate of approximately 21 million cubic ft per day. The rig was released
from SS-7 location on March 31, 1982.



- 6 -
19.       Songo Son_o 8:  Songo Songo 8 was spudded on April 10, 1982
using the drill barge Vermillion Bay. The top of the producing sands were
found some 350 ft below the top of the gas/water contact for the area, or
some 700 ft below the depth where this formation had been forecast in the
drilling prognosis. The logs suggested that the formation was water-wet,
therefore no drill stem tests were run. After the cempletion of SS-8, the
drilling barge was lent to AGIP who used it to drill the well at Mnazi Bay.
The use of the rig by AGIP was very fortuitous in that it allowed time for
all of the drilling results in Songo Songo to be evaluated before the
decision to drill SS-9 had to be made, without paying standby or
demobilization charges.
20.       Songo Songo 9:  After the disappointing results of SS-8, it was
felt that sufficient reserves had not been proved nor could the field
sustain a daily production of gas which would be sufficient to feed a power
plant and a fertilizer plant, hence it was felt necessary that SS-9 be
drilled. The EIB felt that they could not justify financing the operation,
therefore IDA and the OPEC Fund were alone in the financing. The drilling
costs were then divided 62.5 and 37.5 percent for IDA mnd OPEC Fund
respectively. TPDC invited AGIP to take over the drilling consultancy for
the well SS-9. AGIP concurred and after submittal of a bid, was awarded
the contract, replacing the original drilling consultant firm.
21.       The well, SS-9, was spudded on November 19, 1982 using the
drilling barge, Vermill'.on Bay. Although originally planned to be a
deviated well, the equipment necessary to perform the deviation was found
to be not in working order. Attempts to bring in the equipment from
overseas proved fruitless, hence the well was drilled vertically. The
producing horizon was found about where anticipated and tested gas at a
rate of approximately 23 MMCFD. A Christmas tree was installed on SS-9 and
the rig was released on January 29, 1983. The drilling contractor decided
not to demobilize the rig immediately but to stack it in Tanzania to await
possible drilling opportunities in the area.
22.       Repair of Wellheads at SS-3 and SS-4:  At about the time of the
completion of the drilling on SS-8, it was noticed that the wellheads at
the SS-3 and SS-4 locations (drilled by ONGC) were leaking gas. In order
to prevent a catastrophe and possibly injuring the reservoir or causing an
environmental problem, IDA agreed to fund the repair of these wellheads as
well as upgrade the equipment on some of the wells, under Credit 1199-TA as
follows:
(a) Installation of well jackets and work decks to protect well
heads from navigational hazards on SS-5, 7, and 9.
(b) Upgrading the inflow performance of wells SS-5, 7 and 9 by the
replacement of present bottom hole assemblies with 44 in tubing
and wellheads, and
(c) Complete work-over of wells SS-3 and SS-4 in order to upgrade
them to API standards for gas wells.
23.       Depending upon the work which was to be done, estimates of the
costs of the work ranged up to approximately US$3.5 million. Towards this
amount, the EIB promised up to US$0.5 million contingent on the payment of
arrears by the Government. By the time all of the bills in the Songo Songo



projects were paid, there were no funds left in the IDA credit which co0.d
have been diverted to this work, hence financing had to come from
elsewhere.
24.       Natural Gas Utilization Study:  This study was started at about
the same time as the completion of SS-7 with consultants which were chosen
by TPDC and the EIB. The draft report was ready in October 1982. The
Bank, although not financing this phase of the project, approved of the
choice of consultant. In general, the report suggested that the two most
attractive uses of the Songo Songo gas are for an ammonia urea fertilizer
plant for export and/or for domestic power generation. A plant proposed to
T'PDC by AGRICO (US) would produce 1,150 tons/day of ammonia and 1,725
tons/day of urea and would consume 54 MMCFD of gas 310 days per year over a
25 year life, a total of 420 BCF. For power generation, an estimate has
been made by a Bank consultant for a combined cycle gas turbine power
generator required to meet peak demand of 80 megawatts would consume up to
16 MMCFD and require reserves of 150 BCF at a 60 percent load factor over
25 years. In practice Agrico withdrew from the ammonia/urea project and
there is currently no investor committed to its implementation. Tanesco is
still reviewing its power generation options now based on 165 MW of gas-
fired plant.
25.       Training:  Although training was not a major component during
the first project, a number of TPDC people were trained during both
projects and consisted of the following;
(a) Two TPDC wellsite geologists were assigned to SS-5 and 6. Their
knowledge of mudlogging and electric logging improved
substantially.
(b) Two other geologists were assigned to SS-7 and 8 and were
exposed to a variety of operations from drilling, logging,
testing and completion. These men went on to attend courses at
Exlog in the U.K. These men aleo attended an "Overpressure
Detection" course in the U.K.
(c)  The TPDC geophysicist worked with the exploration consultants in
their head office in the U.K. He was able to get some training
in seismic mapping by constructing maps of the Songo Songo area.
26.       Project Costs:  The estimated project cost of the First Songo
Songo Petroleum Exploration Project Cr S/27-TA was US$49.5 million of which
US$45 million was foreign exchange. As is shown in Table 5. ii Part III,
all of the foreign component of the cost was expended. There is no clear
data that would show if the full amount of the local funds were expended.
Expenditures on budget items were appropriate. However, expenditures were
not made as targeted. The initial plan was to drill four wells, but due to
institutional problems mentioned (para. 16 and 17) above, all of the
project funds were used up in the completion of only two wells. There
were frequent delays on the part of the Borrower in the approval of
invoices and submitting withdrawal applications for the Bank to pay.



27.       The estimated project cost for the Second Songo Songo Project Cr
1199-TA was US$44.8 million of which US$20.0 million of the US$40.0 million
foreign component was from IDA funds. The full amount of the foreign
component was expended on the project (see Table 5. Part III). As was the
case with the First Songo Songo Project, the Second Songo Songo Project
also experienced delays in the approval process of contractor invJices for
payment.
28.       Financial Problems:  Soon after SS-6 started, it became evident
that the project was in serious financial problems in that sufficient funds
would not be available to complete the project as planned. It was hoped
that additional sources of cofinancing could be identified or that AGIP
could be pressed to make a decision on whether or not they would make a
bottom-hole contribution to the project, which AGIP eventually decided not
to do. On March 27, 1981, the Minister of the MWEM formally requested IDA
to consider making an additional credit towards the cost of the overall
program. At the same time the Minister requested the EIB and OPEC to
consider financial assistance towards the 4-well program.
29.       In September 1981, a proposal was made for the Second Songo
Songo Exploration Project which would start as soon as possible in order to
utilize the same drilling barge as was being used in the First Songo Songo
Exploration Project. To demobilize the barge and to find and mobilize
another comparable rig, not only would take a great deal of time, but would
be very expensive due to the standby time and the extra mobilization and
demobilization costs. It should be remembered that at this time, there was
a worldwide shortage of drilling rigs. In this second project, the EIB and
OPEC had both agreed to cofinance the operation up to US$15 million. it
became important to avoid demobilizing the Vermillion Bay. It would take
some time to get the project through the normal cycle within the Bank. The
EIB and OPEC were equally convinced that they would participate, however,
their agreement to contribute would only become effective once IDA's funds
were in place and the credit effective. In the interest of the project,
however, and with an aim to saving funds, the Government of Tanzania agreed
to finance the continuation of the project beyond SS-5, if necessary,
without the Bank's formal signing of the Credit Agreement. The Bank,
however, moved rapidly in approving the second project and it started
without any delay.
30.       At the end of the Songo Songo drilling program, disbursements Lo
the various suppliers and contractors were delayed for long periods.
Indeed, final disbursement to the drilling contractor for the
demobilization fee was delayed for well over a year so that the contractor,
in the end, had to threaten legal action to be paid to enable him to meet
his financial commitments on rig payments. In the last half of 1984, all
of the disbursements were made thus depleting the IDA Credit. The EIB and
OPEC agreed to increase their share to 40 and 60 percent respectively
thereby picking up the possible deficit.
31.       Procurement:  Procurement was a very important facet of these
projects as the quality of the supply of services could well affect the
implementation and the outcome of the projects. To facilitate the
procurement of the many items and services and to provide the flexibility



- 9 -
necessary for the drilling operation, the Project Agreement was amended so
that procurement of equipment and materials estimated to cost US$300,0J0
(instead of US$100,000), could be awarded through Limited International
Tendering (LIT) procedures satisfactory to IDA, provided that, the
aggregate cost of contracts so awarded shall not exceed US$1.5 million
(instead of $2.0 million) equivalent. In addition a new paragraph was
inserted which stated that contracts for services other than mud logging,
cementing and testing, estimated to cost US$500,000 equivalent or less, may
be awarded through LIT procedures satisfactory to IDA, provided that the
aggregate cost of contracts so awarded shall not exceed US$3.5 million
equivalent.  The following discus-   the procurement procedures involved:
(a) Exploration Consultants: Requests for bids were sent out to a
number of firms on a short list which was made up by the
borrower and approved by the Bank. The exploration consultants
were chosen according to Bank guidelines for the initial part of
the evaluation of Songo Songo, (Cr 601-TAN). After completion
of the initial study, the consultants were requested by the
borrower to remain in place to continue the study during the
First and Second Songo Songo project.
(b) Drilling Consultants: A snort list was drawn up by the borrower
and was approved by the Bank. The evaluation of the bids and
the choice of consultant was made by the borrower according to
Bank guidelines. After completion of the initial study under Cr
601-TAN the consultants were requested by the borrower to remain
on the project to continue the study. The drilling consultants
took a major role in procurement of all of the drilling
materials and services and participated in the evaluations of
the bids. Because of rather poor performance of the drilling
consultants, TPDC, after drilling SS-8, decided to replace the
consultants by AGIP, who agreed to undertake the work subsequent
to SS-8.
(c) Sub-bottom Survey Contractor: The sub-bottom survey contractor
was procured by means of Limited International Tendering (LIT)
procedures acceptable to the Bank. The sub-bottom survey
contractor was financed by funds from the Tanzanian Investment
Bank (TIB).
(d) On-Shore Drilling Contractor: Two bids were received as a result
of the Limited International Tendering. A rig belonging to
Sonatrach was chosen on the basis of bid evaluation according to
Bank guidelines.
(e) Off-shore Drilling Contractor: There were no bids received in
response to the call for bids by International Competitive
Bidding (ICB), reflecting the rather tight contracting market
prevalent at that time. After enquiring of a number of possible
contractors, the posted drilling barge, Vermillion Bay, from
Blocker Drilling & Marine Co., was contracted for.



- 10 -
(f) Drilling Materials and Supplies: A number of bids were received
to supply drilling materials and supplies, in response to a
request by Limited International Tendering. The evaluation of
the bids and the choice of the firms to supply the materials was
made according to Bank procurement procedures under the
supervision of the drilling consultant.
(g) Drilling and Technical Services: Services such as mud logging,
wire-line services and cementing were procured by means of
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Bids were evalt-ated
according to Bank guidelines under the supervision of the
drilling consultant.
32.       The project was audited annually following Bank guidelines.  The
records indicate a clean audit report.
Results
33.       Unfortunately, the project failed to find oil which was hoped
for and was hinted at by an interpreLation of the results of SS-3.
Although a show of oil was found in SS-5, it was not deemed to be
significant. So far as proving a sizeable reservoir of gas, the project
can ue said to have been successful. An estimated recoverable reserves of
800 BCF of gas are thought to have been proved so far. The gas utilization
study has identified a number of uses for the gas from Songo Songo which
includes power generation and fertilizer manufacturing. Further uses have
been identified, principally for supply to industry in Dar, and also small
quantities (with doubtful economics) as compressed natural gas for vehicles
and for domestic uses. Actual utilization of the resource has not started
until now (April 1990).
34.       To date no decision has been taken regarding the utilization of
the Songo Songo gas reserves, in part because of strong Government
attachment to the idea of fertilizer production for which it has not been
possible to put together a viable scheme. The option of power generation
appears economically interesting, but has been delayed because reserves may
not be sufficient for both fertilizer production and power generation.  The
country is basically power short and could use the Songo Songo gas for
power generation to advantage. The Energy Assessment Report issued in
November 1984 addressed the gas issue and recommended that feasibility
studies for a pipeline from Songo Songo to Dar es Salaam be initiated
without delay. The pipsline study was completed in 1989 but only now
(April 1990) is Tanesco updating its Least Cost Expansion Program to
identify the possible role of a major supply of natural gas.
Proiect Sustainability
35.       The Borrower now has a good cadre of exploration staff who have
proven themselves quite capable of undertaking exploration activities.



- 12. -
Performance of Contractors
36.       Throughout the project, contractors seemed to do a credible job,
this in spite of the frequent problems with processing and payment of
invoices by TPDC. One or two instances occurred where equipment, on which
stand-by payments were being made, failed to function when the need arose.
The Contractors during the project included the drilling contractor,
contractors for shipping, aircraft, well services, and suppliers of
equipment and materials. Most of the "small" contracts were negotiated by
the drilling consultants, hence both the contractor and the consultant were
fully aware of contractual conditions and the intent at the time of
signing. Despite delays in processing of payments to some contractors
resulting in huge backlogs of unpaid bills, the work continued without
related delays, much to the credit of the contractors involved.
Performance of Consultants
37.       Drilling Consultants:  TPDC was not pleased with the performance
of the drilling consultants. Although the firm was recognized to be good,
TPDC felt that the personnel associated with the operation were not the
best which could have been obtained. Many of the delays encountered in
drilling SS-6 were directly attributed by the Borrower to mismanagement.
The failures in SS-6 were repeated again in SS-5 and could have resulted in
catastrophe had TPDC not had access to drilling mud materials elsewhere
within their operations.  The drilling consultants were requested by the
TPDC to replace all those personnel deemed responsible for the poor
performance if the consultants intended to remain as drilling consultants.
As mentioned above, between the drilling of wells SS-8 and SS-9, the
drilling consultant was replaced. The borrower seemed to be satisfied with
the replacement's performance.
38.       Exploration Consultants:  TPDC was most displeased with the
performance of the exploration consultants during the drilling of SS-6 by
(i) failing to run logs or to take cores of the prospective reservoir
section and (ii) failing to identify the most interesting zone worthy of
testing. It is not evident by reading reports and correspondence that the
exploration consultants were staying on top of the results and integrating
these into the current geophysical interpretation. With a costly drilling
campaign, a great deal of talent should have been brought to bear on the
seismic data to ensure that the best interpretation was being presented or
used for placement of development wells.
Performance of Borrower
39.       To have avoided some of the problems encountered during the
drilling, perhaps TPDC could have been more knowledgeable of what the
consultants were doing, or (more accurately) not doing.  In part, however,
the consultants were hired just so TPDC would not have to involve
themselves with the day-to-day operations.  Moreover, many of the failures
of the consultants are flagrantly obvious in retrospect; however, at the



- 12 -
time they probably were impossible to detect without detailed information
together with a lot of practical experience.
40.       It is strongly felt that the operation, on the part of the
Borrower, could have proceeded much more smoothly if a Project
Implementation Unit had been set up and maintained from the beginning.
This unit could have handled all of the problems which were encountered and
could have communicated directly with the con-ultants, contractors, and the
Bank without having everyone from the Minister and below involved.
Moreover, the Unit could have presided over periodic meetings where
progress, or the lack of it, could have been discussed.
41.       The Borrower could have been more diligent in approving invoices
and submitting withdrawal applications for the Bank to pay. Arrears to a
consultant at times got as high as over US$400,000 and still the consultant
was expected to advance funds etc., suggesting that the approval process
within the Government was so complicated that it encouraged delays.
Performance of the Bank
42.       The Bank faced a formidable task in encouraging the Borrower to
keep the project going in the face of overlapping authorities and
responsibilities; however, perhaps the Bank should have made the move
sooner to arrange for one of the consultants to be in charge of the
operation. The Bank could have requested that the consultant in charge
replace those people who had not demonstrated responsibility and initiative
and, perhaps by so doing, could have saved some money and down time. In
retrospect, it might be argued that Bank staff chose the wrong solation by
themselves assuming too much authority by getting involved with the day-to-
day operations and decision making, which could have been perceived as
diluting whatever authority had been given to the consultants.
43.       During the preparation time for the Second Songo Songo Project,
the Bank moved with speed in approving the second credit. This was done,
as mentioned above, to take advantage of contracts already in place and to
avoid extra mobilization and demobilization charges. This efficient and
speedy transition allowed the program to continue without delay.
44.       The Bank could have acted more forcefully in trying to implement
the training component of the project. Under the circumstances, however,
with problems appearing almost constantly, it was difficult at the time to
see this as a priority. Despite these problems, on-the-job training and
the occasional technical seminar were attended by most, if not all, TPDC
technical personnel.
Project Relationship
45.       Relationships between Bank and Borrower, Bank and Implementing
Agency (TPDC), and Borrower and Implementing Agency, were all satisfactory.
Bank/EIB relationships were satisfactory overall. Bank did feel that
Borrower was too slow in addressing problems of implementation, payments



- 13 -
etc., and this slowness caused recriminations and much extra work as
suppliers sought to be paid. Most suppliers performed well despite the
slow payment. In one respect, the role of the Bank in drilling decisions
and managemenEt, the Bank staff probably got too involved and tried to
undertake too much line management.
Lessons Learned
46.       As a great deal of time and money was spent on drilling wells
which were located on the basis of a seismic interpretation, very little
effort seems to have been spent in attempting to get a second or even a
third interpretation. The fact that the first well in the program did not
agree with the seismic map, should have alerted everyone to the possibility
that this most basic information could be faulty and in need of
reinterpretation. There is very little evidence in the files that much
attention was paid to the geophysics by either the Borrower or the Bank,
nor is there any indication that the data were thoroughly reinterpreted
once wells encountered markers deeper than expected. In future projects of
this type, more attention should be paid to the basic geological and
geophysical data before siting the drilling rig.
47.       In the initial phase of the project, the Bank should have
insisted that the Government set up a Project Implementation Unit staffed
by Tanzanians and by knowledgeable, experienced, expatriate technicians
before the work proceeded. With an efficient unit in place, most of the
prob'ms encountered might have been addressed and solved.  Future projects
of this nature should have a well staffed and knowledgeable Project
Implementation Unit in charge.
48.       Credibility of the Bank and the Borrower has been hurt by delays
in payment for services performed or materials supplied. Some of these
delays in payment were apparently deliberate especially regarding
demobilization payment to the drilling contractor. Notwithstanding the
reasons for non payment, which should always be resolved in a timely
fashion, non payment should not drag on in a seemingly endless fashion
causing contractors and suppliers to spend a great deal of time on follow
up including a need to address their complaints through a variety of
channels. The failure to approve invoices for payment on a timely basis is
counter productive in that the consultant, contractor or supplier becomes
less enthusiastic to do a good job. More importantly, his attention is
diverted from the job to the more mundane pursuit of payment.
49.       At the time of the writing of this PCR, some seven years after
the drilling program, the production and utilization of the natural gas
from the Songo Songo Field has not occurred. It would clearly have been
appropriate to investigate gas uses and economics in greater depth before
executing the drilling program.



- 14 -
Project Documentation and Data
50.       The credit agreements and President's reports were a good basis
for project execution and control. Data required for the PCR were readily
available in the files.



- 15 -
PART IIIs STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans Credits
Loan/Credit                                      Year of
Title         Purpose                          Approval    Status
Cr. 1604-TA      To relieve bottlenecks          1985         In Progress
Petroleum        and to reduce waste and
Technical        rationalize the petroleum
Assistance       distribution system and
Project         also develop strategies for
the use of indigenous gas
resources.



- 16 -
2. Proiect Timetables
(a)Project Cr S127-TA
Item                     Date            Date           Date
Planned        Revised         Actual
- Identification
(Executive Project
Summary)                                          09/79
- Preparation                                       not recorded
- Appraisal Mission                                     01/80
- Credit/Negotiations                                 05/08/80
- Board Approval                                      06/12/80
- Credit Signature                                    06/30/80
- Credit Effectiveness  09/80                         09/12/80
- Credit Closing       09/30/82                       09/30/82
- Credit Completion      06/83                        09/07/82
2. Proiect Timetables
(b)Project Cr 1199-TA
Item                     Date            Date           Date
Planned        Revised         Actual
- Identification
(Executive P~,oject
Summary)                                          06/81
- Preparation                                           08/81
- Appraisal Mission                                     09/81
- Credit/Negotiations                                   11/81
- Board Approval                                      11/22/81
- Credit Signature                                     1/11/82
- Credit Effectiveness  01/82                         02/23/82
- Credit Closing       12/31/83                       12/31/83
- Credit Completion    06/30/84                        9/10/84



- 17 -
3. Loan Disbursement
(a)Credit S/27-TA
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ '000)
FY 81     F" 82    FY 83
Appraisal Estimate          25,000    28,000   30,000
Actual                      12,671    29,250   30,000
Actual as Z of Estimate    51Z         104Z     lOOZ
Date of Final Disbursement: September 7, 1982
3. Loan Disbursement
(b)Credit 1199-TA
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ '000)
FY 82     FY 83    FY 84     FY 85
Appraisal Estimate for
Total Donor Finance           32,000    40,000   40,000    40,000
IDA Portion                   16,000    20,000   20,000    20,000
Actual for IDA
Disbursement                  8,424     16,983   18.682    18,718
Actual 2 of Estimate          52.62     84.92    93.42      93.62
Date of Final Disbursement: September 10, 1984
Comment:
The Presidert's Report did not include a disbursement profile for the IDA
portion of the overall finance.  Total donor finance was expected to be
disbursed over two years and IDA share was expected to be 502 of each
invoice. A weakening of the SDR shortly after approval reduced the IDA
share to about 47Z.



- 18 -
4. ProJect Implementation
(a)Credit S/27-TA
Estimated Completion Date
Indicators                         At Appraisal         Actual or PCR
1)  Completion of drilling         12/3/80                 5/2/81
of first well
2)  Completion of drilling         3/31/81               1C/12181
of second well
3)  Energy Development Plan        6/30/82              Not finalized.
Overtaken by the
preparation of the
Bank energy
assessment report of
November 1984.
4)  Exploration and Negotiation  6/30/82                No formal strategy
documlent produced but
the Ministry has
developed and
implemented a
successful strategy.
5)  Natural gas utilization        6/30/81              Completed
study
4. Project Imnlementation
(b)Credit 1199-TA
Indicators                     Appraisal Estimate    Actual or PCR Estimate
Completion of drilling               1/22/82                   3/12/82
of first well
Completion of drilling               5/14/82                   7/02/82
of second well
Completion of drilling               9/10/82                   10/29/82
of third well
Comments:
Physical performance was close to appraisal estimate throughout.



- 19 -
PrSOlCt Cost and Financing
5.1    Pro      oats
(a)    CR S127-TA
_ _praisal Estimates                   Actual
Local    Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign    Total
-          US$ million-----US$ million
DrilflDtgL lbil        1.6       18.5       16.1
C   Loption of woll s            2.7        2.7
Techncal tssistanco
t4 wE                   -         1.0        1.0
Tech. Assist. to TPDC:
(lot Pha..)
Pre-drill. Otago     -         0.6g/      0.6
drilling ota&o      0.1        1.9        2.0
Training of TPDC
staff             -         0.5        0.6
I.Consult. Servtys'
(2nd Phase)
Pre-drill. Stage    0.1        1.9        2.0
Well completions A
Resorvoir studies    -         0.3        0.8
Su.-total              1.8       22.3       24.1
Phjs'iical conting.    0.8        4.9        6.2
Pric:e co.ntingencios    0.4      3.8        8.7
T',tel Projvct Cost   2.5       80.5       33.0       n.e.       80.6
aJ  Taxes and duties exempt.
5.1     PrOject Financing
(b)    CR S/27-TA
Planned Credit                     Actual
Source               Local   Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign    Total
------ US$ million---------------US$ million-------
IDA                    - .       30.0       30.0                 30.0
EIB                    -.-        0.5        0.5                   0.5
Government             2.5        -.-        2.5                  n.a.
Total              2.5       30.5       33.0                  30.5



- 20 -
5.2    Pro1ect Costs
(a)    CR 1199-TA
Appraisal Estimates                Actual
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
--   ---- US$ million------------US$ million-------
1. DriIlIng RIg
. Operat ng costs
S00days         -        9.8        9.6
b Demobilization     -         8.2       3.2
2. Tech Servle s      -         0.6       6.6
8. Tangible. A con-
usable. Inel. Well
o"pI. *quip.         -         4.1       4.1
4. Enginering, constr
and *upport sorv.    4.5       5.6       10.0
S. ugat. a exploration
advisory services    -         4.0       4.0
6. Reservotr Engineering
Studies               -        0.8       0.8
7. Contingencies
a. Physical          -         5.1       S. 1
b. Price            0.3        1.7       2.0
Total Project Lost   4.6       40.0       44.8     n.a.
Proiect Cost and Financjng
5.2 Proiect Financinu
(b)   CR 1199-TA
Planned Credit                .ctual
Source            Local Foreign Total    Local r reign Total
-------- US$ million----             US:, million-------
IDA                  -     20.0    20.0         -     18.     18.7
EIB                  -      8.0     8.0         -         rO   8.0
OPEC Fund            -     12.0    12.0         -     12.0    12.0
Government         4.8       -       4.8      n.a.        -   n.a.
TOTAL              4.8    40.0    44.8        n.a.    38.7    38.7



- 21 -
6. Project Results
(a) CR S/27-TA
A.   Direct Benefits:         Not applicable
B.   Economic Impact:         No quantifiable benefits before production
C.   Financial Impact:        No quantifiable benefits before production
D.   Studies:
(a) Energy Development Plan. This was superseded by UNDP/WB Energy
Assessment dated November 1984.
(b) TPDC Financial and Managerial Structure Study. Report prepared
by Commonwealth Secretariat. The structure was implemented and
is substantially still in existence.
(c) Formulation of Exploration and Petroleum Negotiation Strategy.
No formal strategy was prepared. However the informal strategy
adopted by Government and TPDC was, in most respects, in line
with the "ideal' strategy encouraged by the Bank.
(d)  Gas Utilization Study.  Study by IGDC indicated commercially
interesting possibilities in fertilizer, power generation,
industry and other uses. Known gas reserves were insufficient
to supply all of these needs.
6.   Project Results
(b) CR 1199-TA
A.   Direct Benefits:       Not applicable
B.   Economic Impact:       No quantifiable benefits before production
C.   Financial Impact:      No auantifiable benefits before production
D.   Studies:               Project included reservoir engineering
studies to verify reserves in place.
(a)Reservoir Engineering: Studies undertaken by ECL quantified the
reserves in place and indicated gas producibility that could
potentially be commercially interesting.



- 22 -
7. Status of Covenants
(a) CR S127-TA
Brief Description                     Selection
of Cov-nants                          Applicablo   Compliance         Remarks
Ro later than Dec. 31, 1980, the       CRA 3.02       Yoe
Borrower shall employ a                (a)
management consultant whoso
qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory
to the Borrower and IDA.
No later than Dec. 31, 1980, the       CRA 3.02       Yes
Borrower shall employ an Energy        (b)
Specialist and an economic
advisor whose qualifications,
experience and terms of
employment shall be satisfactory
to Borrower and IDA.
Promptly after completion of Part    CRA 3.04         Mutually agreed   UNDP with the Bank prepared
C of tho Project or no later than      (b)            by IDA and          the Energy Assessuent Report
six months after the Closing                          Borrower to         for Tanzania which overtook
Date, the Borrower shall prepare                      *acept the          the Energy Development Plan.
and furnish to IDA a report of                        strategy as         Without a formal document, the
the Energy Development                                developed.          Borrower has in place a
Negotiatiofe Strategy.                                                    successful Exploration and
Negotiation Strategy.
7. Status of Covenants
(b) CR 1199-T
Brief Description                     Selection
of Covenants                         Applicable   Compliance          Remarks
The Borrower shall employ no           CRA 8.02       Yos
later than April 30, 1982 or           (a)
other date as the Borrower and
Association may agro upon, an
energy specialist and economic
advisor whos selection,
qualifications and experience and
terms of employment satisfy the
Association's guidelines.
The Borrower shall prepare no          CRA 8.02       No                  This was overtaken by the
later than March 81, 1983 the         (b)                                Energy Assessmont Report
draft Energy Development Plan and                                         prepared by UNDP with the
submit it to tho Association for                                          Sank.
review.
In order to assist the Borrower       CRA 8.08        Yes
in the preparation of exploration    (a)
strategy, the Borrower shell
employ qualifi*d consultants no
later then April 80, 1982.
Tho Borrower shall prepare tho         CRA 8.08       Yoe
draft exploration strategy no          (b)
later than September a0, 1982.



- 23 -
S.   Staff Input
(a) CR S/27-TA
St;r Of                Monab/        Number of       Staff I/      Specialty   Performance  /
C.Ye *                  Yer           Persone         Weeks                         Rating
Preparation I              79            8               8.2            Economist
.1            Geologist
.6             Consultant
Appralsal                 SO             6               .8             Advisor
1.4            Chief
16.4           Economist
.5            Engineer
.5             Financial Analyst
4.9            GeologIst
Negotiations              80             4               2.1            Economist
.4             Financial Analyst
2.8            coololot
.1            TchnT?cal
Preparation II            80              6              4.0            Chief
.8            Deputy Chief
.7            Economist
.2             Financial Analyst
8.7            Geologist
Lending Operations        80             2               4.0            Loan Officer
SURir ton
SPN                                       1              .4             Economist
Project Admin.            81              2              2.8            Loan Officer
0.7            Oper. Asat.
Supervision               81              9              0.6            Loan Officer
0.4            Chemical Eng.
0.9            Deputy Chief
15.1           Economist
26.2           Engineor
0.6            Financial Analyst
4.2            Geologist
0.1            Operations
0.3            Technical
Project Admin.            82              2              0.8            Loan Officer
0.1            Oper. Asst.
Supervision               82              5              0.1            Asst. Director 2
9.6            Economist
22.4           Engineer
0.6            Financial Analyst
2.5            Geologist
Project Admin.            88              1              1.1            Oper. Asst.    2
Supervision               88              8              8.2            Economist      2
1.2            Engineer
0.1            Geologist
Project Admin.            88              1              0.2            Oper. Asat.    2
Supervision               8a              a              8.2            Economist      2
1.2            Engineer
0.1            Geologist
Project Admin.            84              1              0.2            Oper. Asst.    2
Supervision               84             4               0.0            Advisor        2
0.1            Economist
8.8            Engineor
0.0            FInancial Analyst
Supervision               86             4               0.0            Economist      2
1.8            Engineer
0.1            Geologist
0.9            Engineer
Supervision               88              1              0.1            Geophysicist
PCR                       89                             0.1            Geophysicist
PCR                       89              1              1.9            Geophysicist
TOTAL                                            1687
1/ Date are inadequat  to split staff time In the field and headquarters.
2/ 1) Problm free or minor problem.
2) Moderate problem.
8) Major problm.



- 24 -
.  Sttaff  nput
(b) CR 1100TA
Sta    of              Month/        Number of       Staff Al       Specialty      Performnce
CycT-                    Year          Persons          Wekn                          Rating
Throush ADPraISal
Pr paration I              80             1               8.4       Loan Officer
81             8              0.0        Deputy Div. Chlif
8.1       Economist
0.2       Geologlst
Appraisal                  82              8              0.        Asset. Vice Pros.
8.6       Economist
0.5       Financlal Analyst
62             1               6.2       Loan Officor
Nbgotlations               82              1              0.1       Economist
Preparation I1             82              a              1.1       Division Chief
1.2      D-p. Division Chief
2.2       Economist
88             1              0.4        Engineer
Proj .Adminstration        82              2             0.8        Loan Officer
0.1       Operations Asst.
SUegrvision
upe rvision                82              5             0.1        Division Chief        1
10.8      Economist
6.2       Engineer
0.1       Financial Analyst
0.6       Geologist
Supervision                88              1             0.4        Enginoer              1
Proj. Admin.               83              2             0.7        Loan Officer          1
0.2       Operations Asst.
Supervision                88              4             11.8       Econemist             1
17.7      Engineer
0.6       Financial Analyst
1.8       Geologist             1
Proj. Adin.                84              1             1.1        Operations Asnt.      1
Supervision                84              4             0.2        Div. Chief
8.8       Engineer
7.7       Economist
0.0       Engineer
Proj. Admin.               88              1             1.0        Loan Officer          1
Supervision                85              1             0.2        Dsp. Division Chief  1
Supervision                86              2             0.6        Engineer              1
0.4       Engineer
PCR                        89              1             1.0        Goophysicist          I
PCR                        90              2             0.0        Country Economist    1
0.1       Economist
Supervision                90              1             0.2        Engineer              1
TOTAL                                                    118 4
Al Date aro Inadequate to split staff weeks spent In the tfold and at headquarters.



