Document of
The World Bank                  FLE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2744-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATICN
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCICATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZAJIIA
POR THE
SONGO SONGO PETROLEUM EXPLORATIDN PROJECT
May 21, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discloeed without World lank authorization.



TANZANIA
SONGO SONGO PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                                          Tanzanian Shillings (TSH)
US$      1.00                                               T.Sh.    8.30
T.Sh.    1.00                                               US$       0.12
(As the Tanzanian shilling is officially valued in relation to a basket of
currencies of Tanzania's trading partners, the US Dollar/Tanzania shilling
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in the report were made at
US$1.00 to T.Sh. 8.30 which is close to the 1979 average exchange rate.)
Weights and Measures
1 metric ton (m. ton)                                  2,204 pounds (lb,
1 meter (m)                                            3.28 feet (ft.)
1 kilometer (km)                                       0.62 miles
1 metric ton (m. ton)                                  1,000 kilograms
1 cubic meter (m3)                                     35.3 cubic feet
1 barrei bbl)                                          42 US gallons (
1 metric ton of oil (API 34)                           7.34 barrels
Glossary of Abbreviations
b/d                  Barrels per day
Mcf/d       5         Thousand cubic feet per day
MMcf        5        Million cubic feet
MBPD        5        Thousand barrels per day
gal.                  gallon
kw          =        kilowatt
mw                    megawatt
TOE         =        Tons of Oil Equivalent
AGIP                 Aziende Generale Italiana dei Petroli
EAC         =        East African Community
EIB         =        European Investment Bank
ECL         5        Exploration Consultants Limited
TPDC                 Tanzania Petroleum Development Corp.
ONGC        5        Oil and Natural Gas Commission of India
OPEC-Fund            OPEC Special Fund
MWEM        =        Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals
MOF         =        Ministry of Finance
Fiscal Year
Government  :        July 1 to June 30
TPDC                 July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
SONGO SONGO PETROLEUM EXPLORAIION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMNARY
Borrower:              United Republic of Tanzania
Beneficiaries:         Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC)
and Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals (MWEM)
Amount:                US$30 million equivalent
Terms:                 Repayable in ten years including three years of grace
and carrying a service clharge of 3/4 of 1% per annum.
The credit would be re-fLnanced under any subsequent
credit or loan the Bank Group may provide to finance
a petroleum development '?roject. If the exploration
effort does not result in a commercial discovery, the
terms of the engineering credit will be extended to
standard IDA terms.
Relending Terms:       US$29.5 million of the proceeds of the credit would
be passed on to the Tanzania Petroleum Development
Corporation (TPDC) as equity. The remaining balance of
about US$0.5 million will be used by the Ministry of
Water, Energy and Minerals (MWEM) to finance certain
energy sector studies, and technical assistance.
Project                The proposed credit is intended to finance the first
Description:          phase of a drilling program designed to assist the
Borrower in the assessment of the hydrocarbon potential
of the Songo Songo field area and to strengthen the
capability of MWEM in the energy sector. Specifically,
the credit would financE.:
(a)   drilling of two we.lls (one on-shore and one
off-shore) at the Songo Songo field area out
of a required four well drilling program;
(b)   strengthening MWEHI's capability in energy
sector planning and policy formulation; and
(c)   strengthening TPD(;'s capacity to implement
the project through the provision of technical
assistance and training of its staff.
If oil is found to be present in sufficient quantities
to warrant development, the ensuing production would be
extremely beneficial to Tanzania in reducing petroleum
imports and associated fEoreign exchange costs.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be usod by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



- ii -
The risks involved are those typical for all oil explora-
tion projects. However, since all the three previous
wells drilled to date in the Songo Songo area, using
Government's own funds, proved gas accumulations the
risks that the two wells to be drilled under the project
will be dry is small. Even if no oil is discovered the
wells drilled are expected to confirm gas reserves and
determine whether the field can be economically
developed.
Estimated Costs: a/
Local      Foreign    Total
…--   (US$ million)-------
Drilling of W1ells (2 wells - one
on-shore and one offshore
including materials and                    1.6         13.5       15.1
consumables)
Completion of Wells (the above
2 wells - second phase)                      -          2.7        2.7
Technical Assistance to MIEM
(Assistance to Energy Planning
and Policy formulation)                     -          1.0        1.0
Technical Assistance to TPDC:
I. Consulting Services (First phase)
(i) Pre-drilling stage                    -          0.5 b/    0.5
(ii) Drilling stage                       0.1         1.9        2.0
Training of TPDC's Staff                   -          0.5        0.5
II. Consultancy Services (Second phase)
(i) Drilling stage                       0.1         1.9        2.0
(ii) Wells Completion
and Reservoir Studies                  -         0.3       0.3
Sub-Total                        1.8        22.3       24.1
Physical contingencies                            0.3         4.9        5.2
Price contingencies                               0.4         3.3        3.7
Project Cost net of Taxes and duties:    2.5           30.5       33.0
a!   The project is exempted from identifiable taxes and duties.
b/   US$400,000 equivalent of the pre-drilling stage consultancy services is
being financed under a Project Preparation Facility advance (PPF) which
will be reimbursed from the proposed Credit.



- iii -
Financing Plan:                              Local    Foreign   Total
------US$ million-------
IDA                                       -         30.0     30.0
Government                                2.5         -       2.5
EIB                                       -           .5        .5
Total                                    2.5        30.5     33.0
Estimated
Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year      FY81       FY82     FY83
------US$ million------
Annual                                         25.0       3.0       2.0
Cumulative                                     25.0      28.0     30.0
Rate of Return:        Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:               No separate report






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CRE])IT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A SONGO SONGO PETROLEUM EX'?LORATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit of US$30.0 million equivalent to the United Republic of Tanzania
to help finance part of a program of exploration-cum-appraisal drilling to
assess oil/gas potential in the Songo Songo area to meet domestic demands
and possible exports. The credit would carry a service charge of 3/4 of
1% per annum and would be repayable in 10 years including 3 years of grace.
About US$29.5 million of the credit proceeds would be passed on by the
Government to the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) for
carrying out the drilling component and related technical assistance and
training, as an equity contribution. The balance of about US$0.5 million
will be used by the Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals (MWEM) to finance
certain energy sector studies and technical assistance. The credit would
be refinanced under any subsequent credit or loan the Bank Group may provide
to finance a petroleum development project. If the exploration effort does
not result in a commercial discovery, the terms of the engineering credit
will be extended to standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Basic Economic Mission visited Tanzania in August 1976 and the
Basic Economic Report was distributed in DecEmber 1977 (Report No. 1616-TA).
A new Country Economic Memorandum is expected to be issued later this year.
A summary of social and economic data is in Annex I.
Profile of the Economy
3.        Tanzania is one of the 30 least developed countries in the world
with a per capita income in 1978 of US$230. The economy is still heavily
dependent on agriculture: 90% of the labor :orce is engaged in agriculture
and approximately 50% of GDP and about 70% o:E total exports are derived from
agricultural production. The industrial sector is still small, producing
about 10% of GDP, approximately the same perzentage as 11 years ago. The
service sector produces about 40% of GDP. Overall population density is
low, though a few areas are considered overpDpulated. Population growth is
estimated at 3.0% per annum with both fertility and mortality at relatively
high levels.
4.        Since the Arusha Declaration in 1967 Tanzania has pursued a socialist
development strategy. Banking, insurance, and most large-scale enterprises
1/   This section is essentially the same as that of the President's Report
on the Grain Storage and Milling Project dated April 15, 1980.



- 2 -
in manufacturing, plantation agriculture, transportation, and wholesale trade
are under state control. There is extensive state intervention in economic
activity, including import licensing, foreign exchange controls, price control,
the reservation of some activities to the state or cooperative sector, and
detailed Government investment planning. The second major feature of
Tanzania's development strategy is its strong emphasis on rural development
and social programs to benefit the poor and reduce inequalities in income
distribution. This is reflected in ambitious Government programs for the
provision of rural water supplies, health services and universal primary
education.
Long Term Economic Trends
5.         In the decade 1968-78 real GDP at factor cost grew at an annual
average rate of 4.8%, or about 1.8% per annum per capita. While economic
growth was severely disrupted by the economic crisis following the failure
of rains and large increases in import prices in 1973 and 1974, the economy
recovered with annual growth of 5 to 6% for 1976 through 1978. During the
seventies the service sector was the fastest growing sector - 6.3% per year.
6.         The Government has a good record of domestic resource mobilization.
Between 1967-68 and 1977-78 the share of recurrent revenues rose from 15.1%
to 19.3% of GDP. However, most of this increase occurred before 1975-1976;
in 1974/75 revenue peaked at 22% of GDP. The increase was achieved through a
combination of highly progressive direct taxes and proportional or moderately
progressive indirect taxes. Except during the economic crisis in 1974-75, the
rate of national savings has also been high; gross national savings fluctuated
at around 16-17% of GNP from the mid-1960s through 1973, fell to half that
level during the crisis years and recovered to the pre-crisis level in 1976
and 1977. These are high levels of savings for a country at Tanzania's income
level.
7.         Some progress has also been made in achieving the Government's
objective of more equitable income distribution. Between 1969 and 1975 the
average urban rural gap remained approximately constant, halting the trend
towards an increasing gap in the early 1960s. Moreover, it is likely that
this gap has been slightly reduced since 1976 due to continued recovery of
agricultural production and higher producer prices. However, regional income
differentials in rural areas have tended to widen slightly. Within the formal
urban sector there has been a dramatic narrowing of the post-tax income
differential between the highest-paid government officials and minimum wage
earners, from 50 to 1 in 1961 to 8 to 1 in 1975.  However, a large informal
sector has emerged comprising large numbers of unemployed and underemployed
workers with earnings significantly below the official urban minimum wage.
The policies of wage restraint and higher producer prices pursued since 1975
should have a beneficial impact on almost all dimensions of income distribu-
tion, and the basic needs oriented programs in rural water, health and primary
education (para. 4 above) are resulting in a significant redirection in
public expenditures toward the rural poor.
8.         Despite this impressive overall record of development, some pro-
blems have begun to manifest themselves in recent years. Exports have failed



- 3 -
to keep pace with the growth of the rest of the economy; the overall export
index is down almost one-third since 1966. This poor performance in exports
is due to the poor growth rate of agricultural cash crops. While agricul-
tural output has increased impressively in recent years (10.9% in 1976 and
8.2% in 1977), most of this growth has been in the hard-to-measure subsistence
sector; the monetary sector has lagged well behind. This failure of export
growth has led to increasing dependency on foreign loans and grants to pay
for imports.
9.        A second increasingly serious problem is the deceleration of the
growth of domestic revenues. While still at a high ratio to GDP compared to
most other developing countries, government revenues have been growing more
slowly than GDP in recent years. At the same time recurrent expenditures have
been higher than budgeted. As a result, public sector savings have been well
below expectations and the Government has had to rely more upon borrowing
(both foreign and local) and external aid for financing development than was
planned.
Recent Economic Developments
10.       During 1975-77 the Government adhered to the program agreed to
at the time of the Program Loan (No. 1063-TA) in late 1974. This program
included redirecting investment to the directly productive sectors of industry
and agriculture, higher agricultural producer prices, constraints on wages and
salaries, price and tax increases to restrain consumption and tight control
of imports. These policies, aided by the boomi in coffee prices, succeeded in
keeping government spending under control with low levels of borrowing from
the banking system and led to a balance of pay7ments surplus of almost US$150
million in 1977. Food production increased and government stocks of most
foodgrains reached record levels. In 1978 the Government was able to ease
import restrictions and begin to import the spares and raw materials needed
by all the major sectors in the economy.
11.       Unfortunately, the price of coffee, Tanzania's major export, began
to fall at the same time that imports were liberalized. Also, in October,
1978 war broke out with Uganda and the resultLng imports of military equipment
and mobilization of resources required for the war effort put an increasing
strain on the balance of payments and the domestic budget. Consequently, the
current account showed a deficit of more than US$450 million in 1978 and the
overall balance of payments was almost US$300 million in deficit. The Govern-
ment's foreign reserves were rapidly drawn down and the country was forced to
delay payment of about US$60 million in import bills.
12.       The situation deteriorated further in 1979.  The overall balance
of payments for 1979 is expected to be almost US$200 million in deficit, and
arrears on import payment were estimated at about US$200 million by the end
of the year. At the same time the domestic budget deficit has increased
substantially. A recurrent budget deficit of almost TSh I billion (US$120
million), was estimated for FY1978/79 and government borrowing from the
banking system is estimated at TSh 3 billion (US$360 million), a major
component in the increase in the money supply of about 35%. In an effort to
deal with the increasing balance of payments deficit, import licenses were



- 4 -
reduced by almost 40% in real terms from the 1978 level and the Government
announced a 10% devaluation in January of 1979. In addition the FY1979/80
budget called for a reduction in the level of recurrent expenditure and
borrowing from the banking system of TSh 1.67 billion; however, through the
first quarter of this fiscal year borrowing was already TSh 1.4 billion as
spending agencies, due to lack of budgetary discipline, were able to exceed
their budgetary allocations. In early 1979 the Government arranged for almost
US$75 million in funds from the IMF from a First Credit Tranche, the Trust
Fund and the Export Compensatory Fund, but negotiations for further assistance
from the IMF have so far been unsuccessful. To deal with the increasing
economic problems as well as provide a framework for IMF assistance, the
Government urgently needs to develop a comprehensive program to overcome
the emerging crisis, as it did in 1974; the Bank has offered to help the
Government in developing such a program.
13.       Tanzania continues to attract large amounts of foreign assistance
on concessional terms. Because of the very concessional terms on which aid
has been given to Tanzania and the Government's reluctance in the past to use
higher cost commercial loans and supplier's credits, the overall debt service
ratio has historically been less than 10%. However, the recent balance of
payments crisis has forced the Government to utilize commercial loans and
suppliers credits and as a result the debt service ratio is estimated at 12%
in 1979 and projected at 15% in 1980. We expect it will remain in the range
of 15-20% throughout the 1980's. In 1978 the Bank held 12% of Tanzania's
external debt (for the Bank Group, it was 28%) and received 37% of Tanzania's
debt service (40% for the Bank Group). We are projecting this debt service
share to fall to about 21% in 1980 and to remain around 25% for the coming
decade.
14.       Tanzania's development program will require resources in excess of
domestic savings and external capital made available to finance the foreign
exchange costs of projects. Given the Government's efforts to mobilize
domestic resources and in view of our support for its increased emphasis
on local cost intensive rural investments, the Bank Group will continue to
finance a high proportion of total costs including, in appropriate cases, a
portion of local costs.
East African Community (EAC)
15.       The recent developments in the East African Community were outlined
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312).
Dr. Victor Umbricht, the independent mediator appointed by the Partner States,
has visited East Africa on numerous occasions and prepared reports on the
results of his fact-finding work on the EAC Corporations and the General
Services, and the methodology adopted in appraising the assets and liabili-
ties. In late March 1980, the mediator presented to the three Governments
his proposals for the allocation of these assets and liabilities, for their
consideration. The next step would be the start of negotiations among the
three Governments based on the mediator's proposals. According to his terms
of reference, the mediator would be available to assist in arriving at a
definitive settlement. The mediator's report and recommendations on the



future structure of the East African Development Bank (EADB) have been
accepted by the Partner States. The revised !iADB Charter along with the
Treaty amending and reenacting the new Charter have been submitted to the
three Governments for signature as soon as they are constitutionally ready;
this is expected shortly.
16.       The de facto breakup of the Community has had some impact on
Tanzania's budget as new national entities take over the services formerly
provided by the EAC Corporations. A major development related to the EAC
difficulties was the closure of the border with Kenya. Kenya was a major
trading partner of Tanzania and considerable adjustments have had to be made
in locating new suppliers for some items and leveloping alternative outlets
for some manufactured goods and agricultural products.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA 1/
17.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.  Beginning with
an IDA credit for education in 1962, 42 IDA credits and 19 Bank loans, of
which two on Third Window terms, amounting to US$812.5 million have so far
been approved for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary
of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the
development of the common services and development bank operated regionally
by Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African
Community. IFC investments in Tanzania, totalling US$4.7 million, were made
to the Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered
financial difficulties and in 1969 IFC and other investors sold their interest
in the Company to the Government. A new IFC investment of US$1.7 million in
soap manufacturing in Mbeya was approved by the Executive Directors on June
8, 1978 and an investment of US$1.5 million in metal product manufacturing was
approved on May 10, 1979. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC investments to Tanzania and the East African Community
organizations as of March 31, 1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
18.       To support Tanzania's overall development strategy Bank Group
lending operations are increasingly focusing on the rural sector and directly
productive projects. While up to the end of FY1972 Bank Group operations were
directed mainly to infrastructure, the overwhelming majority of the operations
approved since FY73 have been for directly productive projects. Furthermore,
a number of recent Bank Group supported infrastructure projects have been
closely linked with specific productive activities. For example, the Urban
Water Supply Project (Loan No. 1354-TA) apprc,ved in December 1976, will
support the Industrial Complex in Morogoro (Loans No. 1385-T-TA and 1386-TA)
and the Morogoro Textile Project (Loan No. lE07-TA and Credit No. 833-TA).
Directly productive projects recently approvEd include the Second Cashewnut
Development Project (Credit No. 801-TA), the Tobacco Handling Project (Credit
No. 802-TA), the Mufindi Pulp and Paper Project (Loan No. 1650-TA and Credit
No. 875-TA) and the Tanganyika Development Finance Company Limited Project
1/  This section is essentially the same as that of the President's Report
on the Grain Storage and Milling Project: dated April 15, 1980.



(Loan No. 1745-TA).  In addition, a Tourism Rehabilitation Project (Credit
No. 860-TA), a Sixth Education Project (Credit No. 861-TA) and a Fifth Highway
Project (Credit No. 876-TA) were approved by the Board in FY79. Since the
beginning of this fiscal year five projects were approved; a fourth line of
credit to the Tanzania Investment Bank (Loan No. 1750-TA), an Engineering
Credit for the Dar-es-Salaam Port (Credit No. S-24-TA), the Tanzania Rural
Development Bank (Credit No. 987-TA), a Pyrethrum Project (Credit No. 1007-TA)
and a Grain Storage and Milling Project (Credit No. 1015-TA). Projects which
have been appraised include a Second Urban Water Supply Project, an Agricul-
tural Services (research) Project, a Coconut Project, a Seventh Education
Project and a Rural Development Project in Mara Region. A small scale indus-
tries project, a third urban project, a harbours project, a second technical
assistance project, a telecommunications project, a Coal Engineering Project,
a Sewerage Project, a Structural Adjustment Project, and a railway project
are also under preparation.
19.       Although the comparatively high undisbursed proportion of loans
and credits, detailed in Annex II, is in large part a result of the recent
approval of many of these projects, it also reflects the fact that overall
project implementation has been slower than was projected. The causes of
the difficulties in implementation are varied. Some stem from the scarcity
of suitably trained and experienced manpower, some reflect the problems in
identifying agronomic input packages appropriate to the needs of smallholder
farmers while others result from the strains associated with attempting a
"frontal attack" on poverty. These problems have been compounded by frequent
and drastic administrative changes, which -- although potentially the source
of long-term benefits -- have disrupted orderly execution of projects and made
parts of earlier project concepts obsolete. Also, the Uganda war (para. 11)
has had some impact on project implementation. In the early stages of the
war there was some diversion of equipment and manpower; however most of these
problems have been solved. The more serious medium term problem involves the
financial and foreign exchange implications of the war. If these problems
are not resolved, the availability of adequate local funds and the shortage
of foreign exchange could become a major constraint to implementation and
operating performance. In general, implementation difficulties have been most
severe in agriculture, particularly in the smallholder rural sector. As our
lending program has increasingly concentrated on this sector, these problems
have become correspondingly more apparent and severe. By contrast, the
"modern" sector projects have tended to fare better: the Tanzania Investment
Bank, Mlwanza Textile and Morogoro Industrial Estate Projects, for example,
are proceeding well.
20.       As the Bank Group's lending program has expanded, increasing
attention has been given to measures designed to improve project implementa-
tion. A course was conducted in Dar es Salaam in 1973 and again in 1978 on
Bank Group procurement with the relevant Government officials. A special
project implementation unit was set up in the Ministry of Agriculture and
14 Agricultural Development Services staff have been assigned to Bank Group
financed projects in agriculture and rural development. In addition, a number
of EDI supported courses on the transport and industry sectors have been held
at the East African Management Institute in Arusha Tanzania. Furthermore,
the need to establish a close and continuous working level dialogue between



responsible Tanzanian officials and Bank Group staff on implementation problems
was one of the prime reasons for the expansion of the Resident Mission to two
professionals in October 1976. Finally, in February 1977 a regular Government/
Bank Group review of project implementation was established. Discussions on
the Bank Group project portfolio, chaired by the Ministry of Finance (IIOF) and
attended by Bank Group staff and officials from implementing agencies, deal
in detail with individual problem projects and problems which are affecting
project implementation across a number of sec:ors. As a result of these
efforts, there has been some improvement in pr^oject implementation. Actions
agreed to during the reviews have been completed relatively quickly and
coordination and communication between MOF and the various ministries and
agencies responsible for project implementation has improved markedly.
21.        The Government has become increasingly conscious of the importance
of effective project implementation. In addit:ion to fully supporting the
project implementation review system, MIOF has set up a unit to oversee project
performance. As a consequence of these effort:s, the disbursement record of
Bank Group financed projects has improved somewhat over the last two years,
and a recent analysis indicated that the Tanzanian disbursement performance
is about equal to the Bank-wide average. Whi:Le there is still a potential for
further significant improvements, the Government is implementing its investment
program, including Bank Group and other foreign aided projects, more effec-
tively than in the past. However, the impact of the Uganda War (para. 11) on
the Government's resources may affect the progress in project implementation
until such constraints are dealt with.
PART III - THE ENERGY AND HYDROCARBON SECTORS
Background
22.        Total annual energy consumption in Tanzania in 1978 was around 5.0
million tons of oil equivalent (TOE), i.e., about 300 kg per capita. Of this
total only 0.9 million tons or 18%, was commercial energy (mainly imported
crude oil and refined products which accounted for 95% of all commercial
energy, the rest being made up by coal and hydro electricity). Per capita
commercial energy consumption (49 kg of oil equivalent per year) is consider-
ably below that of other African countries such as Kenya and Angola. Further,
the share of commercial energy is lower in Tanzania than in most other African
countries at a similar stage of development, Largely due to the large proportion
of the population living in rural areas.
23.        Between 1960-72, demand for commerc[al energy grew at an average
rate of 7.2% per annum.   This rate of growth fell to 1.4% between 1973-77
following steep increases in oil product prices to consumers (reflecting
higher cost of imported supplies) and measures to curb gasoline consumption by
restricting driving practices. In 1978 the peatroleum import bill was US$124
million and accounted for about 11% of Tanzania's imports. The import bill
for oil has doubled during 1979 due to increa:,es in international prices of
oil. Current projections indicate that commercial energy consumption will
grow to about 2.0 million TOE in 1990 at a rate of growth of around 6.2%
per annum. Even if major developments in coaL, hydro power and non-
conventional renewable energy were to take place, the bulk of the increase



would have to be met from oil imports unless Tanzania develops local produc-
tion. In 1980 oil prices, this would mean a cost of about US$400 million in
1990 which would account for more than 30 percent of total projected imports
in that year.
Energy Resources and their Development
24.       Tanzania's energy resources are large and diverse but essentially
undeveloped. It has vast, unexplored sedimentary areas suitable for oil
and gas generation and accumulation. Though what could be a significant gas
discovery has been made offshore on Songo Songo island, the potential for
hydrocarbons has not been sufficiently explored to yield petroleum (oil and
gas) in commercial quantities. Inferred deposits of coal are estimated
at 1,300 million tons with recoverable reserves of about 300 million tons.
There is a considerable hydro potential estimated at 1,400 MW and studies
now underway should provide an initial ranking of hydro sites. Forests
covering about 307,000 sq km are the major energy source accounting for nearly
85 percent of the total energy consumption in the form of charcoal and fire-
wood. Non-traditional renewable energy is not yet commercially utilized but
in the longer run there is potential for solar energy and biogas. Also the
country has a yet unexplored uranium potential.
25.       The preponderance of a rural population depending mainly on charcoal
and wood for energy has hindered the development of a domestic market for
commercial energy large enough to justify costly and highly capital intensive
energy development schemes for coal and hydro. However, the oil import bill
is already quite large. Further the process of economic development should
result in increased substitution of non-commercial by commercial forms of
energy consumption and therefore the future rate of growth of commercial
energy consumption should be higher than in the past. The Government recog-
nizes this and over the past five years, has taken steps to assess Tanzania's
energy potential and to formulate energy development plans aimed at increasing
the availability of domestic energy resources. The Government has also
commissioned several studies to better identify Tanzania's coal, hydro, and
uranium potential and has carried out geophysical surveys to better understand
indigenous hydrocarbon prospects. In addition studies on refinery expansion
have been made with the objective of upgrading refinery output for lighter
products relative to heavy fuel oil consistent with demand requirements.
26.       The conclusions of these studies and activities undertaken by the
Government can be summarized as follows:
(i) In the medium term depending on the economics of mining
and the development of local demand, power requirements
are to be met by coal development particularly in the
Southwest. Government is currently assessing the feasibility
of a coal development project, with the assistance of the
People's Republic of China. This project as presently
envisaged would involve the construction of a coal mine with
an initial production capacity of 300,000 tons/year, to serve
the industrial and power sector.



- 9 -
(ii) In the longer term, power requirements are proposed to
be met by the Stigler's Gorge Multi-purpose project, with
a possible installed capacity of as much as 800 MW.
(iii)  In the field of petroleum the Government has entered into a
production sharing agreement with a foreign oil company (AGIP,
Italy) for the exploration of coastal and offshore areas.
In addition, the Government has financed geophysical surveys
covering some of the more promising offshore and onshore areas
to better assess their petroleum potential in preparation for
a new round of exploration contracts with foreign oil compa-
nies to be initiated by the end of 1980.
(iv) The Government has, in 1979, signed a contract for uranium
exploration with Uranerzbergbau - GmbH of the Federal Republic
of Germany to assess its uranium potential;
(v) For non-traditional renewable energy the Government is in the
process of commissioning consultants to assess the possible
contribution of such sources and prepare a strategy for their
development and has initiated an afforestation program.
27.       The steps taken by the Government are in the right direction.
However, given financial constraints, there is a need to set investment
priorities in the short, medium and long term, and for a more effective
project implementation. This will require better coordination in energy
planning. It is expected that the technical assistance provided under the
proposed project will assist the Government in implementing the required
institutional improvements.
Sector Organization
28.       The central authority for energy resources in Tanzania is the
Ministry of Water, Energy, and Minerals (MWEM) which was established after
the reorganization of the former Ministry of Commerce and Industry in 1975.
The Ministry of Finance plays a limited role by administering petroleum fuel
taxation. It is yet too early to assess the role that the newly reorganized
Ministry of Planning will play but it is likely to be related to the integra-
tion of sectoral plans into the country's overall economic program.
29.       The MWEM is responsible for energy policy matters and for the
overall organization and administration of the sector.   There are four public
corporations operating under its jurisdiction:
(i)  the State Mining Corporation (STAMILO) - exploitation of coal
and all other mining activities;
(ii) the Tanzania Electricity Supply Company (TANESCO) - electricity
generation, transmission and distribution on the mainland;
(iii) the Tanzanian Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) -
exploration and exploitation of oil and gas; and



- 10 -
(iv)  the Rufiji Basin Development Authority (RUBADA) - in charge
of the proposed Stigler's Gorge complex.
30.        Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC).  TPDC, an autono-
mous public corporation fully owned by the Government, was established in 1969
to be in charge of petroleum and gas related activities. It is the agent of
the Government in the petroleum subsector and as such takes participation in
joint ventures with foreign partners, particularly in exploration (production
sharing contracts).  TPDC is the main beneficiary under the proposed project
and would be its executing agency.
31.        TPDC is managed by a nine-man board, chaired by the Minister of
Water, Energy and Minerals. At present, TPDC's main activities are trading
and exploration. TPDC's capital has been provided through Government sub-
vention and capital grants under budgetary allocations. It buys crude oil,
arranges for its refining paying a processing fee (at Tiper Oil Refinery, Dar
es Salaam - jointly owned by the Government and AGIP Company of Italy) and
sells the products ex-refinery to distributors. In exploration TPDC's role
has so far been limited by its technical and financial capability. However,
as a party to the production sharing agreement concluded with AGIP in 1969,
TPDC monitors the activity of the foreign operator. Further, since the
discovery of the Songo Songo gas field in 1974, and its subsequent relinquish-
ment (para. 41), TPDC has been active, with the assistance of the Oil and
Natural Gas Commission of India (ONGC) and of the Petroleum Directorate of
Norway, in the initial appraisal of the Songo Songo discovery and in carrying
out reconnaissance seismic surveys. TPDC is staffed by 25 Tanzanian pro-
fessionals spread over seven directorates. These professionals are assisted
by three UNIDO advisers and four other expatriates. 1/ The Exploration
Department is staffed by nine professionals (six geologists and three geo-
physicists) of whom six were trained abroad. However, these professional
staff are young and lack practical experience. TPDC has initiated an active
recruitment program to expand its Tanzanian professional staff and the proposed
project provides funds for their training.
32.        TPDC's financial position should be viewed in the context of the
role it plays in the petroleum sector as a trading company with a monopoly in
the purchase of crude oil and the distribution and sale of refined products.
Trading activities began only at the end of FY76/77 and profits for the
fiscal years 77/78 and 78/79 were equivalent of US$5.4 million and US$4.4
million respectively. The decline in the second year was due to TPDC having
to resort to the "spot" crude oil market after Iran broke its long term
contract claiming "force majeure". TPDC's total assets as of June 30, 1979
were US$60.0 million, and its net worth was US$23.0 million. It has no long
term debt at the present time and its income is allocated to cover the working
capital required for its trading activities. The proposed project provides
for a study to review TPDC's fiscal and management structure and to recommend
the manner in which it should discharge its responsibilities in the petroleum
sub-sector (para. 48(d) (iv)).
1/   The three UNIDO experts advise on petroleum exploration and petroleum
refining and related matters. The other expatriates have been contracted
from the Indian Oil Corporation and other agencies to assist in financial
operations.



- 11 -
Energy Planning and Implementation
33.       As discussed earlier (para. 26), the studies commissioned by the
Government on the development potential of alternative energy sources are
an important step to rationalize the energy development plan. However, the
lack of financial resources (mainly in foreign exchange) to implement energy
development projects is a major constraint likely to remain throughout the
1980s, unless petroleum can be developed locally at a cost lower than interna-
tional prices. The setting of adequate procedures and yardsticks to evaluate
the merits of alternative energy projects is therefore of highest priority.
While the necessary organizational and institutional structures have been
established, the Government still needs outside expertise to help in carrying
out the required tasks of energy sector planning, analysis, and implementation.
The proposed project includes provision for such assistance to MWEM and TPDC.
Energy Pricing
34.       Energy pricing policies, including petroleum taxation, have been
determined by economic and social considerations and some products are taxed
relatively lower for social reasons. However, overall petroleum prices
reflect the cost of domestic refining and imports. Following the international
petroleum price increases in the second half of 1979, product prices have been
revised upwards by more than 50%. Retail prices for petroleum products on an
average are 30% above international levels. Electricity tariffs are also
being adjusted periodically to reflect rising costs. A comprehensive tariff
study for electricity pricing is being completed under the Kidatu Hydroelectric
Project - Second Stage (Loan No. 1306-T-TA).
35.       Differences in relative energy prices reflect, to a certain degree,
differential taxation. Petroleum product taxes are periodically adjusted
following changes in international import prices. They range from 25% of the
retail price for regular gasoline to less than 8% on kerosene. Industrial
diesel oil and fuel oil consumed mainly by public sector industries, and road
and rail transport are exempt from taxation. Petroleum product taxes in 1979
produced receipts of about US$50 million or ebout 25% of the Government's
estimated indirect tax revenue during that year.
Sector Policies and Investment Priorities
36.       Faced with rising costs of oil impcrts, the Government's main
priority now is to achieve self-sufficiency in energy. In the short-term,
great expectations are placed on the petroletrm potential of the Songo Songo
field which will be assessed by the proposed project. In the longer term,
the objective is to provide a reliable energy base which could meet Tanzania's
energy requirements from those domestic resotrces which can be developed
economically. While the studies referred to in paragraph 26 provide the
framework for the development of a long term energy development plan, giving
priority to Songo Songo petroleum potential cevelopment at present is reason-
able because of increasing cost of imports ard, because, if successful, the
investments being considered will yield quicler results. For the longer term
the studies now underway and the technical assistance to be provided under the
proposed project are expected to result in a long term energy development plan.



- 12 -
Petroleum Sub-Sector
37.        Currently, petroleum  accounts for 95% of domestic commercial energy
consumption. All petroleum requirements are imported and refined locally in
the 2000 ton/day refinery at Dar-es Salaam. The product pattern of the refinery
is 17% light ends 36% middle distillates and 42% of heavy ends. This is
insufficient to meet the domestic demand for light and middle distillates and
generates an excess supply of heavy ends (fuel oil), of which more than 50%
is exported. On the other hand, the light and middle distillates, which are
in short supply, are imported as products. In 1978, the import of petroleum
products was about 280,000 tons representing 45% of total consumption of
petroleum products. To improve this situation, TPDC has completed a feasi-
bility study for refinery expansion with the objective of increasing output
of lighter products relative to heavy fuel oil. This study was financed under
the Technical Assistance Project (Credit No. 601-TA).
38.        Projections of total energy demand (based on GDP/energy consumption
relationship) show that at 5% GDP growth total commercial energy use should
reach 2.0 million TOE by 1990. Even on the assumption that major develop-
ments of coal production and hydro power generation, could, optimistically,
increase their share to about 30% of total commercial energy demand by 1990,
petroleum demand is expected to grow at 6% per annum reaching 1.2 million
tons in 1985 and 1.5 million tons in 1990. In 1980 prices, the petroleum
import bill will reach US$350 million in 1985 and may exceed US$400 million by
1990. Any further increases in international prices for oil would further
exacerbate the balance of payments problems and the already constrained
foreign exchange situation. The Government therefore is directing its efforts
to eliminate its increasing import burden by accelerating the exploration and
development of its hydrocarbon resources.
Petroleum Geology
39.        Tanzania's sedimentary basins with the potential for the generation
and accumulation of hydrocarbons cover an area in excess of 100,000 sq km.
They are located in the east coastal basins and exclude the Rift Valley
basins to the west in which the geology and petroleum potential is much less
known. Sedimentation in the coastal basins is essentially continuous from the
Karroo series (a thick largely undifferentiated section dated from Paleozoic
Carboniferous through Mesozoic early Jurassic) to the present. Karroo rocks
were deposited mostly in a non-marine environment with the first incursion of
the sea beginning in the middle Jurassic and with succeeding sediments becom-
ing progressively more marine with time. The predominantly marine sedimentary
fill is thickest under the present continental shelf, up to 12,000 meters.
40.        The sedimentary section is believed to contain a number of possible
hydrocarbon source beds, shales and fine grained carbonates. Potential
reservoir rocks are also common in the coastal basins, sandstones and porous
carbonates including buried reefs. Potential structural traps appear to be
subtle, comrplex, and abundant. While the volume of a relatively uninterrupted
marine depositional sequence of rocks such as those found in the east coastal
basins of Tanzania does not guarantee the entrapment of commercial quantities



- 13 -
of hydrocarbons, it certainly justifies exploratory drilling beyond the
present level of 11 deep wells. The generation of at least some hydrocarbons
has been established by the presence of gas ard possibly oil at Songo Songo
plus lesser shows in the several other wells lrilled. However, oil in
commercial quantities yet remains to be provel. While drilling to date has
added much essential knowledge to the subsurface geology of the coastal basins
of Tanzania, most of the exploratory wells, ia hindsight, do not appear to
have been particularly well located and the potential of the coastal basins is
still essentially unevaluated.
Exploration History
41.        The search for hydrocarbons in Tanzania began in 1951 when a geo-
logical survey team mapped surface structures suggesting the possibility of
hydrocarbon traps at depth in the coastal region. Exploration by the British
Petroleum Company (BP) and Shell Oil Company (Shell) was carried out during
the period between 1953 and 1964 over the mainland's coastal area and the islands
of Pemba, Zanzibar and Mafia. Four exploratory wells were drilled, one on
each island and one on the mainland at Mandawa, but none of these encountered
significant oil or gas shows to encourage further drilling. In 1964, BP and
Shell surrendered the exploration license. From 1969, AGIP Exploration and
Production Ltd., was granted an exploration license covering essentially the
same areas relinquished by BP and Shell. The first well was completed as
a dry hole offshore at Ras Machuisi in 1974. During the same year, AGIP
drilled Songo Songo Well No. 1 and encounterel gas in the Lower Cretaceous
sandstones. Three additional wells drilled on the mainland were dry. At that
time, AGIP did not consider that the gas discDvery at Songo Songo justified
additional appraisal drilling and according tD the terms of their production2
sharing agreement they relinquished the area surrounding Songo Songo (284 km )
to TPDC, in 1976, although AGIP still holds a sizeable portion of the coastal
basins (see attached map).
42.        With increasing cost of petroleum  rimports TPDC decided to evaluate
the Songo Songo gas discovery and contracted DNGC to drill two additional
wells at Songo Songo island. TPDC also took steps to better assess Tanzania's
petroleum potential through seismic surveys bDth offshore and onshore. This
was done with the assistance of the Petroleum Directorate of Norway who
recommended the survey and provided financing, through NORAD, for the seismic
interpretation. However, the cost of drilling at Songo Songo and of carrying
out the surveys were borne by the Government. To date, Tanzania has spent
about US$25 million on seismic surveys and drilling which confirmed the
accumulations of oil and gas at Songo Songo (Wells No. SS-3 and SS-4) and
identified several additional structures offsh-ore as well as some leads
onshore.
Government Strategy for Petroleum Exploration
43.        The Government recognizes that to continue oil exploration on its
own is too costly and intends to approach for?ign oil companies willing to
undertake oil exploration in Tanzania at their own risk. It has contacted
AGIP and discussed ways to accelerate explopation efforts in their remnaing
concession area (approximately 14,000 sq km ) before the expiration of thieir



- 14 -
license in September 1982; AGIP is expected to spend an additional US$4.0
million on offshore seismic surveys in 1980. In anticipation of starting
additional drilling at Songo Songo, the Government requested a bottom hole 1/
contribution from AGIP since their license surrounds the TPDC block previously
relinquished (para.41) and AGIP stands to gain from the information obtained
in drilling more wells. The Government's immediate priority for petroleum
exploration is to fully evaluate the potential of the Songo Songo field with
the hope that it may contribute to meeting domestic requirements soon. Its
long term strategy is to invite foreign oil companies to carry out exploration
in all other areas. Before starting promotion of its petroleum potential to
foreign oil companies the Government plans to complete the processing and
interpretation of seismic surveys now underway.  This would improve its
knowledge of the petroleum potential of prospective areas and would hopefully
enable it to obtain better terms during negotiations with oil companies.
Furthermore, the Government plans to redefine its petroleum code prior to
entering into agreements with foreign oil companies which so far has been
treated as a part of its mineral code.
44.       Tanzania's planned approach to oil exploration is basically sound.
In order to assist the Government to attract foreign oil companies, the
Association agreed in 1979 to finance consultants services under the Technical
Assistance Project (Credit 601-TA) to:
(a) provide TPDC with the expertise needed to propose revisions
to the petroleum legislation and to propose model agreements;
(b) assist TPDC in broadening its knowledge of the country's
petroleum potential by reprocessing and interpreting the
seismic data, and by evaluating geologic prospects in prepara-
tion to promote the areas to international companies; and
(c) assist TPDC in negotiating with foreign oil companies.
Selection of consultants for (a) above has been completed. The revision
of the petroleum legislation is well advanced and the first draft legislation
has been prepared and submitted for Government's review. Selection of con-
sultants for (b) and (c) is  underway.  These services are expected to help
the Government in launching a new round of exploration on a sound basis.
However, given the worrisome trend in oil imports, the government requested
the Bank Group's assistance for full appraisal of the Songo Songo discovery
and to prepare the proposed project.
1/   A payment for using all information obtained during drilling, including
access to the site, which is predicated on the drilling at a designated
location to an agreed upon depth. It is standard industry practice to
request and expect a contribution from nearby license holders.



- 15 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin
45.       The proposed project would be the first Bank Group petroleum lending
operation in Tanzania. The project includes part of the required exploration
program to assess the oil and gas potential ill the Songo Songo field area.
The program would include drilling of up to four wells with the first phase
covering two appraisal wells. Depending on the outcome of the first two
wells and the availability of additional financing (paras. 56 and 57), two
additional wells forming the second phase of ':he program may be drilled to
fully assess the potential of the Songo Songo field.
46.       The Songo Songo field, located some 190 kms south of Dar-es-Salaam,
16 kms2offshore, was discovered by AGIP in 1974 (para. 41).  AGIP relinquished
284 km surrounding the discovery well to TPDC in 1976. TPDC thereafter
drilled two more wells, SS-3 and SS-4, in the Songo Songo area by contracting
ONGC. Both wells tested gas and the current proven reserves of gas are
estimated at 100 billion cubic feet.  Tests conducted subsequently by mid-1979
confirmed possibilities of an oil accumulation in association with gas. In
September 1979 the Government requested Bank Group assistance in further
appraisal of the Songo Songo petroleum potential. Subsequent Bank Group
missions identified the need for additional studies before a decision could
be made on the advisability, location, and size of an appraisal drilling
program. Two studies were undertaken to analyze the drilling, seismic, and
geological data available, confirm the presence of crude oil, and prepare a
drilling program. These two studies were financed under the Technical Assis-
tance Project (Credit No. 601-TA), and were undertaken by Exploration Consul-
tants Limited (ECL, U.K.) and Sunmark Exploration Incorporated (Sun Co,
U.S.A.), who provided geological and geophysical interpretations, drilling
options, and recommendations as to the location of exploration/ appraisal
wells, evaluation of the program and cost estimates. Terms of reference for
both studies were prepared with the assistance of Bank Group staff, who also
supervised the execution of the work. The final reports were submitted at the
end of January 1980. These reports provided the basis for the appraisal of
the exploration part of the project and the p-:oject was appraised in January
1980.  The same Consultants (ECL, U.K. and Sun Co., U.S.A.) have carried out a
water bottom survey and preparation of the tender documents for the project. 1/
In view of their experience and satisfactory performance these Consultants
were retained by the  Borrower  and accepted by the Association to provide
exploration and drilling management services mnder the proposed project.
Negotiations were held in WTashington from May 5 to 8, 1980 and the Tanzanian
delegation was led by Honorable Al-Noor Kassum,Minister of Water, Energy and
Minerals.  A Credit and Project Summary is at the beginning of this report and
a Supplementary Project Data Sheet is at Annec III.
1/   Preparation of tender documents is financed under a PPF advance of
US$400,000 approved by the Association it March 1980.



- 16 -
Objectives and Description of the Project
47.       The proposed project would support the  Borrower's  efforts to
develop a domestic supply of hydrocarbons, promote exploration, and improve
energy sector planning. It would also strengthen TPDC's capacity to implement
its petroleum exploration activities. The main components of the project
are:
(a)  drilling of two wells to assess the oil/gas potential of
the Songo Songo field area, following the results of prior
exploratory drilling (para. 46);
(b)  completion of the two wells for production;
(c)  technical assistance to TPDC for:
(i)   drilling and overall project management;
(ii)   wells completion services including reservoir
and feasibility studies and development plan;
(iii)   training of TPDC staff in petroleum exploration
activities.
(d) technical assistance to MWEM for:
(i)  overall energy policy formulation, evaluation,
and coordination;
(ii)  designing a long-term petroleum exploration and
negotiation strategy; and
(iii)  assessing the potential market for natural gas.
48.       The proposed project would include financing for:
(a)  Assessment of Songo Songo Field Potential
In order to assess the gas and oil potential of the Songo Songo
field, the project would provide financing for the drilling of two
wells (SS-5 and SS-6). SS-5 will be located offshore (water depth
approximately 30 feet) and will test the large structure immediately
west of the presently explored area. SS-6 will be located on Songo
Songo Island and will test the oil show noted in the previously
drilled SS-3 (para. 46) at a more promising location. The locations
and drilling depths for these two wells have been agreed (Annex to
Schedule 2 to the draft Development Credit Agreement). TPDC will
prepare and submit to the Association for its review and approval, a
testing and evaluation program before carrying out the testing of the
wells (Section 2.06 of the draft Project Agreement). These two wells



- 17 -
are the first phase of the exploration/assessment program.
Following the drilling of the first two wells (which is expected
to be completed by December 1980) TPDC, with the assistance of
the exploration and drilling managemenit consultants, will submit
a detailed report to the Association Lndicating the results of
the drilling undertaken including recommendations for the
drilling of further wells.
(b) Completion of Wells for Production
Depending on the results of the evaluation of the tests made
on productive zones during and followLng the drilling of
SS-5 and SS-6 (para. 48(a) above), the project would provide
funds for the completion of either or both of the wells
(paragraph 4(b) of Schedule 1 to the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
(c) Technical Assistance to TPDC
TPDC has a limited management and technical capacity for the
implementation of a project of this type. The project would
therefore, provide for the necessary technical assistance to
strengthen TPDC's capability to implemnent the project.
(i) Exploration Consultancy Services (40 man-months)
Exploration Consultants Ltd. (ECL) U.K. have been con-
tracted to provide the required competent and experienced
personnel to assist TPDC in the implementation of the
proposed exploration project (Section 2.02(b) of the
draft Project Agreement). Their work will include super-
vision of formation evaluation activities and analysis
thereof including continuous mud-logging and examination
of drill cuttings; selection and interpretation of
electric and radioactive logs; selection, description
and analysis of all cored intervals; and selection and
evaluation of all production tests. They will also
provide on-the-job training to TPDC's local staff
assigned as counterparts to the consultants.
(ii) Drilling Management, Supervision and Other Related Services
(90 man-months)
Sunmark Exploration Incorporation (Sun Co., U.S.A.) have
been contracted to provide drilling management/supervisory
consultancy services to TPDC (Section 2.02(b) of the draft
Project Agreement). Their services include assisting TPDC in
all aspects of the project including designing the project,
arranging for efficient logistic operations (receiving and
storing supplies and material, transportation of men, equipment
and supplies, office set up and communications), supervising
the drilling, testing and evaluation and on-the-job training.



- 18 -
(iii) Well Completion Consultancy Services and Related Services
(22 man-months)
TPDC will also employ petroleum and engineering consul-
tants to assist it in completing the wells (Section 2.03
of the draft Project Agreement). These consultants
would be responsible for providing the well completion
services and preparation of reservoir, feasibility and
engineering studies for the formulation of a development
plan for the field.
(iv) Training
The proposed project would also provide for a short-term
overseas training program (150 man-months) for TPDC's local
staff to improve the quality of the available manpower mainly
in the technical, financial and operational management fields.
The training program is aimed at strengthening TPDC's insti-
tutional capabilities and would also help TPDC to monitor the
activities of foreign operators more efficiently. The training
would include attendance of courses and seminars in well
logging, formation evaluation, reservoir description, material
and logistic management, geochemical analysis, seismic record
processing and interpretation, petroleum economics, accounting,
financial management and operational research.
The consultants referred to in (iii) above and about half of
the exploration and drilling management consultant's services
(65 man-months) referred to in (i) and (ii) above will only be
required if the recommendations for drilling of further wells
(para. 48(a)) are acceptable to the Association and firm arrange-
ments for the additional financing required are made by the Govern-
ment (para. 61).
(d) Technical Assistance to MWEM
As MWEM is the central authority responsible for energy development
in Tanzania, the proposed project aims at assisting it in coor-
dinating several ongoing energy studies and in establishing the
framework for energy sector planning, policy formulation, evalua-
tion and coordination by providing about 90 man-months of the
following technical assistance:
(i) Preparation of an Energy Development Plan (36 man-months).
The Borrower would employ, by not later than December 31,
1980, an Economic Adviser and an Energy Specialist each
for a period of 18 months to assist MWEM in preparing
an overall energy development plan (Section 3.02(b) of
draft Development Credit Agreement). While the Economic
Adviser would have the prime responsibility for prepara-
tion of the plan the Energy Specialist would complement
his work and assist with specific tasks such as reviewing
energy pricing and technical viability of potential energy
projects and designing a system to integrate and coordi-
nate the different energy studies being carried out.



- 19 -
(ii) Exploration and Negotiation Strategy (36 man-months).
In order to assist MWEM in formulating a long-term petro-
leum and negotiations strategy to interest foreign com-
panies in oil exploration, the Borrower would employ a
senior Explorationist and a Petroleum Economist (each
for 18 man-months). EIB will finance the services of
these expatriates.
(iii) Market Study for Natural Gas (12 man-months). Since the
proposed project is expected to confirm additional gas
reserves, provision is made under the project for employ-
ment of consultants (12 man-months) to carry out a study
to assess the medium and long-term potential for utiliza-
tion of natural gas for domestic consumption and possible
exports. This study will also be financed by EIB.
(iv) Institutional Study (6 man-months). To ensure the proper
coordination and implementation of its energy policy, the
Borrower would, by not later than December 31, 1980, employ
management consultants (about 6 man-months) to assist MWEM in
carrying out a review of the fiscal and management structure of
TPDC and to recommend the manner in which TPDC should discharge
its responsibilities in the petroleum subsector (Section
3.02(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The
implementation of the appropriate recommendations of this study
and the technical assistance and training provided for under
the proposed project are expected to strengthen TPDC to play
its important role in the develcpment of the petroleum
sub-sector.
Current Status of the Project
49.       The contracts for the exploration consultant (ECL, U.K.) and the
drilling management consultant (Sun Co., U.S.A.) were signed in March 1980.
The exploration consultant has completed a site investigation consisting of a
water bottom survey, navigational survey, and shallow penetration seismic
survey (commonly referred to as a sparker survey) to determine possible
surface locations for the offshore drilling rig. The drilling management
consultant has completed drawing up the specifications for both the onshore
and offshore drilling units as well as the material and services required in
drilling. Tender documents for these items were prepared 1/ by TPDC's consul-
tants (Sun Co., U.S.A.) and were reviewed by IDA in April, 1980 and found
acceptable. Invitation to bid were issued in early May. Bid evaluation and
award of contracts are expected to be completed by early July. Arrangements
are also underway for supply and equipment storage at Dar es Salaam and for
transportation equipment to and from drilling site, i.e. ships and helicopters.
1/   Financed under a PPF advance of US$400,001) approved by the Association in
March 1980.



- 20 -
Project Costs and Financing
50.       The total cost of a full four well program with 60 days interval
after a first phase involving two wells is estimated at US$49.5 million
equivalent of which US$45.0 million is in foreign exchange. The total cost of
the proposed project which would cover the cost of the drilling of the first
two wells and of the consultant services for the full program, is estimated
at US$33.0 million, net of taxes and duties, 1/ of which US$30.5 million is
in foreign exchange.
51.       The major portion of the project cost is the wells costs amounting
to US$13.5 million (60%, excluding contingencies) which include drilling
contracts for two drilling rigs, one onshore and one offshore, and con-
tracts for supplies and services. Other components are: well completion
(US$2.7 million); technical assistance (a total of US$5.7 million) which
includes technical assistance to MWEM, US$1.0 million, as well as project
preparation, exploration, drilling management and well completion consultancy
services to TPDC of US$4.7 million; and overseas training for TPDC's staff
(US$0.5 million). Physical contingencies of 22% have been applied to the
drilling program and price contingencies have been calculated at 12% for
the foreign exchange component and 17% for the local currency component.
Estimated costs by project component are given in the Credit and Project
Summary.
52.       The cost estimates for drilling contracts including mobilization
for both land and offshore rigs, and the cost of contracts for supplies of
materials and services for drilling the first two wells and their completion
are based on recent estimates by TPDC's consultants (Sun Co., U.S.A.).
The costs for the exploration and drilling management consulting services
are based on the contracts negotiated and signed with ECL, (U.K.) and Sun Co.
(U.S.A.). These services are estimated to require about 130 man-months for
the full program at a total cost of about US$3.8 million which includes (i)
individual fees, international travel, local allowances, provision for rotation
schedule of the expatriate personnel, cost of vehicles and local travel at
about US$15,700 per man-month; and (ii) a management fee of 10% on selected
supervised contracts for the management of well services contracts, overheads,
and profits. Half of these consultancy services (65 man-months) would be
required in the second phase of the project and would be utilized only should
the outcome of the first phase justify it. The cost of technical assistance
to MWEM is estimated at US$1.0 million for 90 man-months of consultancy
services and expatriate staff at an average man-month cost of about US$11,000
(based on individual fees, international and local travel and local allowances).
The estimated cost of training is based on US$5,000 per short term training
course of three to five weeks, US$16,000 for medium term courses of six months
and US$25,000 for long term courses of one year each.  These costs include
tuition, travel, attendance at seminars and conferences and living expenses.
These costs are deemed to be consistent with current charges in the petroleum
industry for the level of expertise and experience required and the field
locations.
1/   The Project is exempted from identifiable taxes and duties.



- 21 -
53.       The proposed credit of US$30 million would finance about 91% of the
total project cost, net of taxes and duties--913% of the foreign exchange cost
estimated at US$30.5 million.  The remaining 2' (US$0.5 million) of the
foreign exchange costs would be provided by EIB to finance part of the tech-
nical assistance for MWEM (para. 48(d)). The credit amount would include
US$402,000 to reimburse an advance under the Project Preparation Facility
to cover the cost of consultancy services for preparation of tender documents,
their evaluation and recommendation for award Df contracts. Local costs
amounting to US$2.5 million would be provided 3y the Government.
54.       The proposed credit would be for ten years including three years
of grace and carrying a service charge of 3/4 of 1% per annum (Section 2.05
and 2.07(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The proposed credit
would be refinanced under any subsequent Credit or Loan the Bank Group may
provide to finance a petroleum development project based on the results of
this project. About US$29.5 million of the credit proceeds as well as $2.5
million equivalent representing the Borrower's   contribution to cover local
costs, would be passed on to TPDC as equity (Section 3.01(b) and (c) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement) since TPDC does not have the capability
of servicing the credit given the nature of its income, its financial structure
and the size of its equity base (para. 32). If the project fails to prove
erough reserve to justify commercial development, the terms of the engineering
credit would be extended to standard IDA terms (Section 2.07(b) the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Co-finarncing of the Project
55.       About US$25 mi] lion of the credit proceeds would finance the foreign
exchange costs of the drilling of the first twro wells, exploration and drill-
ing management and supervisory services, as well as training to TPDC's staff
and technical assistance to EWEM.  In addition, during this phase EIB wiould
finance US$0.5 equivalent of technical assisttnce services (48 man-months) to
be provided to MWE4 to assist it in formulatirg a long-term petroleum explora-
tion and negotiations strategy, and to carry out a National Gas Marketing
Study (para. 48(d) (ii) and (iii)). Execution of a loan agreement between the
Covernment and FIB would be a condition of eff'ectiveness (Section 6.01 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Co-financing of the Program
56.       For the second phase of the program, about US$5.0 million equivalent
of the credit proceeds would finance the costs of the completion of the first
two wells for production, consultancy services for exploration and drilling
management, project supervision and well compLetion services. This would
account for about 25% of the foreign exchange cost of this phase. EIB and
OPEC have indicated their strong interest in Einancing part of the remaining
amount which would include the cost of drilling of two additional wells (about
US115 million) and discussions in this regard are advanced. OPEC-Fund will
finalize its decision after a review meeting with the Government scheduled for
July 1980, and EIB's decision to commit finan7ing for the second phase will be
made only after the ratification of Lome II n:w expected by end of 1980.  The
expected participation is about US$6.0 to 7.0 million eauivalent each.



- 22 -
57.       The Government has approached AGIP to provide what is termed "a
bottom hole contribution" (para. 43) in exchange for all of the data obtained
from the wells and any funds received by the Government would be used to
finance part of the second phase of the drilling program or any other petroleum
sector activities or projects (Section 4.02 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Project Implementation
58.       TPDC would have the overall responsibility for Project implemen-
tation except for the technical assistance component to be provided to MWEM.
A Project Unit staffed with a project coordinator, a geologist, a geo-
physicist, a drilling engineer, a material/logistic engineer and a project
accountant is being mobilized within TPDC. These personnel would be assigned
not later than July 31, 1980 (Section 2.02 (a) of the draft Project Agreement)
and would be assisted by the drilling consultants (Sun Co., U.S.A.) and
exploration consultants (ECL, U.K.), who would also help in the on-the-job
training of TPDC staff. To ensure that manpower shortages would not affect
project implementation, TPDC would not undertake from July 31, 1980 until the
completion of the project, any new projects requiring reassignment of staff
assigned to the project without prior consultation with the Association
(Section 3.04 of the draft Project Agreement). Further, given that the
Government is planning a refinery expansion and since the Songo Songo field
may produce oil that could be utilized in the refinery, the Government would
not, until completion of the drilling under the project undertake any invest-
ment for the expansion of the oil refinery in excess of US$10 million equi-
valent without prior consultation with the Association (Section 4.03 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
59.       In addition, since the drilling of the third and fourth wells under
the program would depend on the results of the first two wells (SS 5 and 6)
TPDC would submit to the Association for its review and approval a report on
the result of the drilling of the first two wells not later than 30 days after
completion of drilling, including recommendations for the drilling of further
wells (Section 2.07(a) of the draft Project Agreement). TPDC would also
furnish to the Association for its review any feasibility study prepared for
the development and production of any commercial discovery of oil or gas
(Section 2.07(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
60.       The procurement of the drilling contract and associated services
will be on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank Group guidelines. Contracts for the procurement of equipment and mate-
rial, not exceeding US$100,000 each would be awarded through limited inter-
national tendering procedures satisfactory to the Association. However, the
aggregate amount of such contracts would not exceed US$2.0 million. Contracts
for specialized services such as mud logging, cementing and testing services
would be awarded after obtaining quotations from at least three suppliers
and contracts for electric logging services will be procured through direct
negotiations with qualified firms. This type of contracting for the
specialized services is justified because of the limited availability of
qualified suppliers.



- 23 -
The consultants for exploration and drilling management services were se'lected
and employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association. All other consultants and experts to be financed under the
project would be selected and employed on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Borrower and the Association.
61.       Disbursements from the proposed credit would be made against 100% of
foreign expenditures on the drilling of the two wells and associated consul-
tancy services, technical assistance and overseas training of TPDC staff. All
withdrawal requests would be fully documented. To ensure prompt disbursements
the Borxower   would designate TPDC as its representative for the purpose of
withdrawal of the proceeds of the credit, except for 14WEM's expenditures
(Section 2.09 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). It is expected that
the drilling component of the project would be completed by December 31, 1980.
A condition of disbursement for the technical assistance under the second
phase of the program and for completion of the first two wells for production
would be that the Association has approved the recommendations made by TPDC
and the Borrower in respect of the implementation of the second phase of the
program (para. 59) and that firm arrangements to finance the drilling of the
additional wells have been made by the Borrower (paragraph 4(b) of Schedule I
to the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Reporting Requirements
62.       TPDC would keep separate accounts for the proposed project and
would submit certified financial statements and audit reports to the Associa-
tion no later than six months after the closing of its fiscal year (Sections
4.01 and 4.02 of the draft Project Agreement). TPDC would also submit quarterly,
annual and completion reports on the implemen:ation of the project in a format
acceptable to the Association (Section 2.08 (b) and (c) of the draft Project
Agreement). MWEM would also keep separate accounts for its expenditures under
the proposed project and would prepare and submit quarterly reports and a
completion report (Sections 3.04 and 4.01 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Ecology
63.       The Terms of Reference for the drilling consultant specify that all
precautions be taken to avoid undue damage to the natural environment. Minor,
non-permanent effects cannot be completely avoided, e.g., some well cuttings
and mud would likely be disposed in the sea water. Substantial environmental
damage can only occur in the event of a serious oil spill resulting from a
well blow otut. It is judged that this is unlikely as the wells would be
drilled under close control at all times.
Project Justification and Risk
Justification
64.       The proposed project can be justified on a number of counts.
First and foremost, Tanzania needs to determine the size and value of its



- 24 -
hydrocarbon assets in the Songo Songo field. In particular, if oil is found
to be present in sufficient quantity to warrant development, the ensuing
production would be extremely beneficial to Tanzania in reducing petroleum
imports and associated foreign exchange costs. Further, a substantial impetus
could be provided to accelerate exploration in the coastal basins of Tanzania
as well as in the coastal basins of neighboring countries in Fast Africa. As
a result of past exploration investment in the Songo Songo field, the incre-
mental investment required to complete the evaluation and determine the
existence of oil is relatively small compared with the benefits that might
accrue from even a relatively small reserve addition. Given the technical
data available, almost any prudent oil operator would proceed with field
appraisal if they owned full rights to the field, although with perhaps less
urgency. The credit would provide Tanzania with both the financial and
technical capability for drilling and evaluating the appraisal wells. It is
unlikely that Tanzania would have been able to attract a foreign operator to
come to their assistance in this type of undertaking because of the limited
size of the Songo Songo block (only 284 km ), which is surrounded by acreage
under license, and the fact that Tanzania would not be able, even if willing,
to offer terms economically attractive to a foreign investor and retain any
significant interest themselves.
Risk
65.       There is only a small risk that this project will be a total
failure. This would occur only if both project wells would not only fail
to encounter an oil reservoir but also did not add appreciable gas reserves.
Partial failure has a somewhat larger probability. This could occur if only
a modest increase in gas reserve was confirmed and no oil in commercial
quantities was found. This situation could arise if the expected amount of
hydrocarbons do not exist or, due to a serious error in the seismic map (bad
data or poor interpretation), the proposed wells were not properly located.
However, depending on the magnitude of gas reserves, it could be used as
an energy source for local consumption or as a feedstock for an export
oriented fertilizer plant.  A study of the medium and long term potential
for utilization of natural gas is provided for under the proposed project
(para. 48(d)(iv)). Finally, a minimal but financially serious risk is
possible in the event of a blowout or other factor which results in a large
cost overrun sufficient to abort the program. These risks are inherent in any
exploration drilling program even when only involved with appraisal wells.
Every attempt has been made and will be made to minimize these risks by
selection of competent consultants to manage the program and by thorough
review by the Bank Group staff itself. On balance the proposed project is
judged to have a much better chance for partial to outstanding success than
for partial to total failure.



- 25 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Tanzania and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and TPDC and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d), of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
67.       Special conditions of the project are Listed in Section III of
Annex III. Execution of a loan agreement betweeni the Government and EIB
would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credif  would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATEON
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 21, 1980



- 26 -                                                Annex I
Paite I of 6
TANZANIA - SOCLAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LANDAREA(THOSANDS )TANZANIA  REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED A]EEAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQO. hM. )                   NIAN                           - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             945. 1                                                    SAKE        SAME      NEZXT HIGHR
AGRICULTURAL      510.1                                  MOST RECENT      GEOCGAPHIC    INCOME       LNCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP _e
GNP PER CAPITA (US)                    70.0        120.0     Z30.0            306.1       209.6       467.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       41.0         62.0       68.0            80.6        83.9        262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULrATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      10.2        13.3       16.4
UTA±N POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  4.8           6.9        9.2             17.1       16.2         24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         32.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           94.0
TEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2145
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KH.                         11.0        14.0       17.0             18.4       49.4         45.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       21.0        26.0       32.0             50.8      252.0        149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          46.4         46.5       46.0            44.1        43.1         45.2
15-64 YRS.                          51.0         51.1      51.0             52.9        53.2         51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.6          2.4        3.0             2.8         3.0          2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.2         2.7        3.0              2.7        2.4          2.7
URBAN                               5.0          6.1        8.5              5.7        4.6          4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       47.0        47.0       48.0             46.3       42.4         39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       22.0        19.0       16.0             17.2       15.9         11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..         3.2        3.2              3.1         2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..          ..       93.6
USERS (PERCENT OF ALRIED WOMN)    ..              ..         ..              ..        12.2         13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          -95.3        104.0       93.0             94.3       98.2         99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMfENTS)                   69.0         88.0       86.0            89.5        93.3         94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           42.0         43.0       47.1            55.8        52.1         54.3
OF WHICE ANIMAL AND PULSE        22.O0        23.0       20.0             17.9       13.6         17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY HATE       32.0        25.0       20.0             22.3       18.5         11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.0          47.0       51.0             47.0       49.3         54.7
INFANT MtORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..       155.0/j   125.0               ..       105.4         68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 *-        13.0       39.0             20.3       26.3         34.4
URBAN                                ..         61.0       88.0             53.9       58.5         57.9
RURAL                                ..          9.0       36.0             10.1       15.8         21.2
ACCESS TO EXCXETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..       17.0            22.5        16.0         40.8
URBAN                                 ..          ..       88.0            62.5        65.1         71.3
RURAL                                ..           ..       14.0             13.9        3.5         27.7
POPULATION PER PEYSICLAN          210OO.Oj/   20677.0   18490.0/f          17424.7    11396.4       6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      8300.OLi/i 4641.0    3300.0/f           2506.6      5552.4       1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             575. O/i    684.0          ..           502.3      1417.1        726.5
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..           201.4       197.3       272.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..          1403.6      2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL 3ED             ..           ..        ..             23.4       24.8         27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                            4.La        ..              4.9        5.3          5.4
URBAN                                ..          3.2/R      ..              4.9         4.9          5.1
RURAL                                ..          4.5/1      5.3             5.5         5.4          5.5
AVERAGE NUMER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..              ..        22. 5        28.1
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..              ..        17.8        45.1
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..              ..          ..          9.9



- 27 -                                                 Annex I
Page 2 of 6
TANZANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA S'dEET
TANZANIA                   REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED A'ZERACZS
TANZANIA               - ~~~HOST R-ECENT ESTIMATE)  a
SAllE       SAME      NEXT HICHER
MOST 2ECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        DiCOtfE
1960 /b     1970 lb ESTIMATE ,b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
AD.JUSTED _NROLLSNT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  28.0         38.0       70.0             59.0        63.3         82.7
MATE                  37.0         46.0       79.0             64.2        79.1         87.3
FEMALE                20.0         30.0       60.0             44.2        48.4         75.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   2.0          3.0        3.0              9.0        16.7         Z1.4
MALE                   2.0          4.0        5.0             12.0        22.1         33.0
FEMALE                 1.0          2.0        2.0              4.4        10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  23.0             ..         ,.              7.0         5.6          9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             45.0         46.0       50.0             42.2        41.0         34.1
SECONDARY                           20.0         19.0       20.0             22.9        21.7         23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          9.5/i       28.1/B    66.0              20.8        31.2         54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0          2.5        2.8              4.0         2.8          9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.0         11.0       19.0             44.3        27.2         76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          0.3         ..              2.9         2.4         13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THtOUSAND POPULATION                   3.0          5.0        4.5              5.6         5.3         18.3
CINEtA AYNNtAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.5            ..        0.2              0.4         1.1          2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       4578.0       5769.0    6488.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    37.1         36.6       36.3             31.9        24.8         29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               89.3         86.0       84.0             77.6        69.4         62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.8          5.0        6.0              7.9        10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 44.7         43.5       42.2             40.8        36.9         37.1
MALE                                  56.9         55.7       54.3             53.9        52.4         48.8
FEMALE                                32.8         31.5       30.3             25.6        18.0         20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.1          1.1       1.2              1.2         1.2          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HII(HEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        33.5         ..               ..          ..         15.2
HICHEST 20 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS    ..           63.3         ..               ..          ..         48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSE'HOLDS      ..          2.3         ..               ..          ..          6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..         7.8         ..               ..          ..         16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTI'1ATED ABSOLU7E POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      117.0            187.6        99.2        241.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..       89.0             96.8        78.9        136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       97.0            138.4        91.9        179.7
RLURAL                                ..           ..       61.0             71.0        54.8        103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOtE LEVEL (PERCEN;)
LRBAN                                 ..           ..       25.0             34.5        44.1         24.8
R URA L                               ..           ..       85.0             48.7        53.9         37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    -he adiusted group averages for each indicator are populatior.-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniforni.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betw,ten 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 197'.
/c    Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Low Income (S280 or less per c.Lpita, 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income
(5231-550 per capita, 197677   /f  Mainland Tanzania;   /g   967;   /h  1961-63;   /i  1962;   /i  Regis-
tered, not all praccice in the country.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



-28--
Page 3 off 6
'.ts Athough te date em  4rew   tree ooosw     g-.ertt.   ad.ed  Ca   -C                                dgbytal. d esiUhis. it .5514  .1.  he  ated  chat the?W    WC  000O  Later.
osrOtul   Ot    C.e   becaus_   O   h.c ItOh .t etetWdatd       d  Cfttttided - saepca  -.cd 0  dit.-eee                  -teetrts   to C.ek-laot c  he dace.   The dee. e. OdetheiaLs,.
u.etal Co decriho  oioe   Of agsOC0Ae. isolt4ce  craW.  soed g1hbemteried Se-oLe .sjordf.see   hcm...  e.rrtaa.
7%.  41a. Cedr.,.    en.CotCelt eda-fls rd                ist  .tsOd              -etri    mate   eclediso  the-c             ..tr -.sl of  et. tdtlests, ebd tcm  Wet
eotktd -awr  i                    Pec   re.  Coserego  C!r..fe    e       '   oiutr   eod    .oelb t                        of dC. me  L. sec  nnf.m.   Ste.  to  lee   Of edata
Ir.,e.fse    o  C.PItoI Sun... Oil tevde-t.rw  eta  Itdloeor   atea             . 0eatrs-           ort deepa  .           tea, itew    4udteCrlhCtt  sed pi           '  Cr.
o tWh. go" lttai._Lhta     gO-flO  SOR   Vtmist thd oo.eidt   Of tetw                         .eL-a.
LjMAAtcheceec     so. is)                                                                   P*cl.C1.a  Par beotte.1  h,"  - tecL    re.hdtol                       .sAlti   (utot.
?ota.  -  eT.L     er..VId. at.    wwri.ieol-d   oaread W    el.eed bco.. sbe.                                   e yeu 410dhyChair r.dWdtIly                      er Of he. Lgal bds
kt" ur     - ""Ct fe.aat acetate  .   M4le.CI    ee.14 t-e   e."  tebar.l&Cu                 _oeil" le  to pehICe ade P pItod  ga_r.I              "pacIa.ddfe beptal.  ad  Co-
ar     - , IVe f.a   C-*-,,  ,m.  peuru     rC a-d  kIte-  Sette"  *  C.                         Mbilt.cled,tt."toees.  heOpiCela  r.4  =             i4hlambeeeoo  po,seeneTl,    f 'ad  o7
ho  talla.                                                              0, ~~~~~~~~~~Isa-C udeo phYOULa .  2ot.0llea.ee. prvoride   prtai1po.1li tuae"Wa.
u.s  st  ec talaed    bea.  WeepLta.ltembbgo. lubaLed  health ad              1d-
;C.  P"  CAPTIA 7U5S) - COP P., oepro   -Ocu.... *0 tweemac  alteC  poluse.l caTr. sot                                                            byea   ieif.dh   Pk phe.laa  (b.  by a  -dluela
taejae    hi      - otr.ta.  -eabd ed Yet.  hueW  teSAs  (1970-77 = uO.);                  eto..ose.e,t .eC.) whiCh Offer to-Pstidat   CeeaOedecis  ad
19*0. 1970. na  1977 dale.                                                                        pt-ltd. . Iloelod!  Wee. .5  eedial Seu±lttleo.
(te.    d  Itoelt., Petrolue   ottut-]  ge. ad   "Id-.  -eeI-  ad Je-
Choea   ele t  ,Ctvetykt  sa..lagr     Of in,. 4ut-oele, yet  WeI-.                          MUSING_
T0t.1 ,rrulectoc   sit-net  ftho...             A. el ilay 1; If so  s.tkl'.thk..                   ad  Ch.Lr esL.   -I..  AItutf   rldesr es,  -r sey eO  be Ilded to
us .f       -ea ......erP e -    9*0 .tSt  ead ft907 Idate.-   it                     theM. haoahuI  tot eceiattual            p.-I. £iett.iu. -4 ,0.e.4 .e    fhe
iritaoeorr..ctiooloercet .5   Ctal  -bati.OfIcr00'to  0cc.],,Crces-       hel  osry
of,  pg.t  ett   eeore.c .kParo.prCSisei    On   edraladpeduesta.
~,J1.a..SL.- cia-itarpopt.lCtdmper. slier-. Iseer(0                      L-deue               ete.eped   er;.
Of tte., urs. ." e d  a. teds      .11iae  tespaetinl,.
Pat. .tko   te ororur   oeooo    -CIldlddt  Ct-Lt Y-ear.   - nej4-ae.
* . Inc  heare  . ees recutee   00 mfoe  eta uteri so~~~~~~b   P... pereote   a) old  rDVCAiTtOtt
iOOulttlArorostoI...  P.Coerteot  -  ..L.   ded ureda  - CaOpecad toua]                     !y,uesr, s Ie,.-tC              dfoeti   -tetAl  .od  fa14derellebeet oS el  edgee
roacth  rt....    .et. I  ma.. urSa e.k.a"-yrsr PoPaletuto  tar .1950-,].                          rcmpiet tIo ... IIoreo    t  tpatot  tCar, sot_iaak-.
19Z!0-I].. u    1070-75.                                                                          oaetaa    eelyitlstcktae0    -. II                              a. c.1 "d'd   to,
Cr'.d  otthra.    00,   tIo.-eed) -dte     110. bitrol  ret th-.suaa             atdte"tIoat   S*).?,euakaltp   eare                                                 ih   aora10
1970 sad ttte-yur-.reolt  oddd.aa IO 197   Ourseo   r -,e  bettoet..                        Lte-o  the eIltl.e   cr00   a
Cruko teeth   eCs (5Cr rt,.5ua4   - usa1  IaatAs pe  tua -de Of eat-               SocooderT Igh-lo - terAI. cod tsIs  - C.Mtc    me ab.e6-.;                    or    tua
erP.pualo:t-ya                            .....t:   oC eo aL"e.4   O A'*0 ed1970               1ttOeat.-  et !...t '.-r ta.-  If urPrtod 00-1*7  LetttL ;Pr-
eud ft.A-,ae I            deblat..lotg   7   o    e    ceteteu.rd,get]  Iocattnl. O                                                                                 Ltta    titgtstcoaatr,p
Crs   or otas rut. - Arove.  ha tOf d-ehccroI  a   aevlterttoly of 1.2t  1, inoo   s;urepene   oaeccobot.l
us her torteS  ceorheeuitos  pa~~~.rted if C.-  oepettose   Pro.-C use-                   1.auued.
sosItl    feiliti .....; u-aa.Y  'tao-nat cree         .e     a     L.a 1960.             Vrta.ralso                   .ro     If  ooauh             octt.ooal  t.ert. ttuc     It-
19071  etc  1975.                                                                                Slesiaal. ti  Iatie.Or etro                        P orceoed otish  ""I".e taaePta.W tly
Psotu  uksrire-r-.Otohs crorul 'tcceaae   -  oteu   ocehur o                    or       d.eerotoof sroetry OritIttota
C .-roso    tt-eia             uto   uusuooreo   ato    al                                   ct-cso    ct PIoo   r .td  ..ec... , -"  Total ..adec. erl.dto
r.eaogprera                                                                                       prtea,ry.eta  st-esid   Lert-   dui1gde  by o.-r. Of teachrs- Ic-P the               rol-
sarrtse   -.,et athold-b ...e   ego(1-a .er    A.h  -a  oirtih-antre1                         Ad.lt Ilert         .rt',rro)          Lit.reCe  et.It. (ahi. to  r."e  Wed               bee u
Cot ..e eli eritd             t   a      o  so4                                                pert-Pgafe  Of totZ  adult pouletn-  egd  5 years  We A-t.
.utafuoCrturco,rc.-e  17-IO. ldf  tse   Of Per-                                         Puae(P., lbrs             ... Coo bau  oorrL.aal.aO, -ped..."ee   cede COeor±ee  -C..r tere
P.r  eec. caol,of  elaros  eeroo  a   5oirasccy- C.ate   to                           r.tti-olega.        s.gt                             e"eet, wds.
sestgsqr.roleC  ateec  eae  eppi se acileIe  I  ro.etro   ar ooire                 radi  osotrer  C pe  thoseed'ooolattt)  -C]. t  s  oeraet,er   Sorr-dt
par aey,  toellatle  soopplts.  m ..o ... tadoct    prdu:.oC~-  .'tpreI  .          hcat.etot  atea1  ubI   pr  teaa    All pocLea;atea ,lt
qu"I  . eued  o  a A111       ra'dCocetta,    d-lasos  I  Aia 4rt tctl             ...      L.-cot:ea  foo  teaser yeero5   tat rodieteolo C.o.  eeIc .sOLaur -e                            d
ocirtO   co  cetretud  ily  AO  booe  on pOyIaloa.   toots fetoo00                tradurat    -ueeat.    .             .y..i-O                              l
volears. ate  ad  eo. tteirttutl S. ofd poeet4  e    .lls..lI   a-                      puf t  per  toec              -     psltsol asaO.    altfaa         1 aier    ooc
cen    - far  ousts   srsttl  lrAo b..                                                            Cos    dtoy.een   stcets    tt  ut   t                               fet
capta  ecoupif.5  ee   po  to.    oc   cu].,oftoe   Istutua   a       ti   a  "dul  g-ah-'                      )It-ose    cs pr"    ttI.e f.s are ..o.atA.Ca  pSl-d
eteot.   ta~~uireta  tar0.1.                                         '2ette.esu.se    ylf     grreotrr  P_ao1ot4ptor.yt   ootlWgtrico  .10T  to .1Cuiue   to
cua   alaatoofhOson   o  sttI postoparta aId "-ra.                                      ha:   :dnty    fI   rar   ot Ise-             Oft.   Ltto. 0tk
Th tede      raaad   ore  lOfe t0reed  fto  -i p-t   is P., tutu.]. prtu sVd                    b.o.   iut     f Ito   yer      ca I...n CuA.totI  It.).   i aads
.- ra-    o W  eI .]  proteu L.e Of    sre.  fded  e-Id. be           opooa by           fL.   l.     -    I
"h. Ia the Thire  .orIC-haWeOut1.y.
Pe   t -cuol f rrst-I,01 PItrotd.     u..] tred   f.. t- trolek   sspr y od  toe                 dLLC..0l'
nod ten. orotP 1-. years, to atildoot Lu  sAte  deo gomp.                                      toot   sts    onre   are   a   aprh
lIt. ttoeacaeu'rettItnc    ra.     gvoce   eto   of year   af .Ila                            bo  -ft.Cco4o  at tro   I l.at ttrte.
btle   e  C01; ada.Ii ti-?-r r  e                Wros    aeiss L  19*0), 1970,         otteyH     uto   C.aoar, fort  toe.l,otttata.eauecre    t
ee    175.sOstly strsa   e  co  orooct. a  tCel. Lebartt
Ittct.oo..110   tcs Ot iit.aad(- dle.  cac.  S  afotoau                P r...at....    Peearci-ae.   as    a1a..                               c.,       l., add
AS a to sP-otrPI.        .tr   otutc(-tot.ttt  stiat] -aThe.   ema Of                                                  tO     .rttup.ta   Oct0 Crofsut.  en
saf. nonC  teely (15dc9-  troeca  saEs oeso    eoao    a                                      ocscr leroedo-c  rtro  - Leels atpuujitn    tr 13 et  65 ad  Ioer t5
ac  -clnesh tote   siot -  ChMt tree prOlto           d boc..s    pta,telSrfart. i. tao  troo   If 1-d                                        -eas
Ic tOurba   VrdA        uht  fsustato  areaps    atdot moo                                   DtOZOM 10STXtTU=UM
cc.20esscfn   e  on.  e  he.   -id-ted  Cc rele.  Otts   t'                          i.re Of PIt'r t.o idos   (hooth to . e.-   ad  kInd) rOottbd  by  OIthdtse
.-SIej  aoCe   o  tha  to   . . i   -rurt  trots  rgeaaaae.e  -soes  scol                        paoses.  rlsa    1prn.   ero    0pra.a                             are 
lemply  .Ce  the  .o-ifo.t ur e- er. of Cit  btoce 1al  us 000 to-  Co                            a) h_seklte..
spedW  C di:pr`a,otCta1-ts   Pert uSrf        a  Ia teaeca   teat kelly's                      U
breaet d.. o   he-Stse Of      a t  uheir  eterOh ancder-         E.,     o C..eCcrecir   ronerto daro. I  loe.  ff50 rotd osr qk-..ru a oa  tari
icrs.etr   s   eotesrS C- POultr.a utoda   hi  tse                            d-                     ortmtdle     ofr Paattar    t-Ce   ad  rural   e           L'oe stfr   -c luOd ru0   0
preattoo. esiae   is....  LrtcscAe.rcAl.isuos                                                  I'lolsuto-o poor'.. asrarur  tetrotter.
Pait er ore... ~d                                            f..
foE.-I. ad  0.01.1 D."e Strtoto
t.-.ir       1 e.lpte  ad   3rtucme            1-otet



IA 1 IN/IA9                                                                                            Papa  4 81  i
8A,a I______                                     Prri I,r.l             __ Irr -r-L,dAurg. -u-rial i-a,1   L,,ot                                                                    .hr   at
19/2  1971  /4        /579           197/i          1917           191$~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T  197-ig9  1980       1985           1990           19/2-77            17-5             18-8CDP
:81'-                                                     2 7l . 9       28,62. 2       91O84.7 I      9112 .4       9I6j4.1I        3542.4       J3134. 1        369/8.2        4069. 7         5185.8        8582. 3            5.8                4. 7          4.9                100.0
W-ir   IrV--riir  at W.dd  (3TT)                          -liii.8        - 201.5        - 348. 9       -34S. /         -v9. 9        -1i6. 1       -135.2         - 1/4 9        -22 3.4         -251.18        -2178.4             ..-3.3
I.  rh,a-  Lkr,2 -It, IIIour                                   2612.9        2454 .7        2855.8         2 1/1           327 94,.2      3426.3I       359o.9         3715. 6        3846.2         4854.1         622 3 .9           5. 6               4.4           5. 1               98. 7
3.  irr-jr,rrta                                                10848.7        1818.8          $95. 4         d39.4          /51.8          882.4         188b3. 9        904. 8         924. 7        1102.8         1338U.84         -5.89               4. 1           3 .8               22. 7
5 .  Lv11rr,1-   WIVr-a                                        1054. 1        18804.5         741.3J         794. 5         924. 5         686.3J         674. 7         788.8          746.4          987 .8        I 114 .7         -8.2                3. 5          5. 1                19.4
rsrrrv-  2  d.-La.r8                                893. 1        883.93          548. 5        48j.1 7         881 .1        688.3J         599, 5         528 .3         522 .9         655,2          881. 3           - 5. 2             -0 .6          6. 2                19.4
It~rrc   Li  - 17l idjastLrd                          191.8          787. 5         148 .9         344. 7          69. 9        118. 1         524,.4         3/o6. 5        481 .8         447.6          4,4.2                . 2                                                3. 3
8.    7.   6.rrsa-n- var                                       2763.8         1988.3J        2483. 1        2553.8         2854. 9        2886.8         79844. 5      3421 .1         1548. 6       4371 .5         5448 .9            6 .6              4.9           4.5                 84. 3
8 . Ir Ir.t.rrr-                                                842.9           882.2         7 55./         6 69.3J        .  0 .15.      87 1.9         71i8.9         873. 1         707 .4         938.8         1219.8             1 .0              4.7            5. 6               19.8
18    ,lir.  1 avn                                        498.4          484. 5         9/r. I         31 4.2         1  /6.4        Sil.71        .i25. O        412.80          41 6.6        o172.9          9 51 .7          1 .1               1 .8          9.8                 15. 2
II.   82~~~~~,r.2iit sanlirge ~~~~~~~~~449. 9                   448.4          252.7          218.7I         1.33.93       439.7           194.4         294 .6         305.8          4o2. 5          7 75.6          -8.4                1. 2         180.0                12.4
I2   Cr1  .fL -.1-in  85 5                                      1544.1         189.2          22s9.1         2584.41        2761.4         3942.4        43 35.71       4488. 5         53393, 1      9941 .7        18883 .8           17 .8             13 .8         1 3.53
L.  24       ul[HPUT1
(Slur.-   A a G  ..t  19r7   rcoI
I.   rlr.c                                                       18.1           I 17.5         18.9           15.]1          14. 4          13J.8          13J.8          1 2./7         12.3           12.3           19.2I            1. 3               3.1          6.4
2..9tcr  Ory51.                                                                 54.8           48.68          48.8           58.4           51.80          508.           58. 4          50.1           48. 3          47 .1           4. 7                3.8          4.4
I   s-ticv                                                        2.7           27.5           3,/.2          ,8.4           95.3           35. 2          3u,.2          36. 8          37. 6          39. 3          399.8           6.53               6.0           5. 1
C.  IL81I675
I   12rr1Irr  l2in.  tuas9.4                                                  49J.3          64. 2          0,3.8          78           i 18.8          91.8           95 .9         1802. 5         142.2          198.8           2.4                 4. 5          6.8                                 s
2. 1. Pi`e  jd-s                                          43J.8          54.1           9.             94. 6           2. 8         188.8          11i.8          127.7          148. 3         196. 8         2 54.7           18. 4               8.8           5.8t
1.   Itiiinallra.ie                  84.7           88.8           79.7           87.2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b  82 7  188.v    9,.8           75.1           79.1           72 .2          /8.1
4.   Ie nItr   (85                                               56 9.4         781            /4. 5          82 .2          82. 1         188.8          118.1          1 28.5         1532. 5        194.7          288. 1           12 .1               8.7           8 .7
5   v.ag  4c/ntn   il   /15h/8597                             7.149           70 (.821      7.143          7.4 14        8.379          8. 274         2.99
)   St.,1L- Li DIIl' ,A8 MRS: fill                                                 132 -7I       19/8-85         1984-38
M                                                    ~~~~       ~     ~~~~~~~~~~4.40  J. 91I j 3.2
-. ha  lai/ tAiy                                                       -1. 22           0.11          8.77
4. A.I..t/ali.Ilai           Rat-                                       184             1.9           1.
4    n,..i/8                                                                   29.8             32           28.9
7    8.Vc,18..riit/48/                                     ~~~~      ~    ~~~~~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~2.88  id.  1 9,4
0 .d---utc   CaIr/CDY                                                           2. 8            9. 4          8.8
E.  tunwIl  I~ fiL/lr27                                                                                                                       Ac"tual        Actua             Oct
(81/rr lnliiigc(                                        1 965/8        1972/73        1"/-/74        1914/75        19/5//v        1978/7         1977/78        1978/79,
1.  k;aiicirl 8cv.~~~~~~~~~~iriiv               7~~~1 6       29/382                        34c             1919          5258           n8o2           68
1.1  l..x  iucciiriu                             88~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~62  192     2 518         3141           av2           48404          9117           572
2             Ciri.i   si.,h-dIar-                               78/           2223            2 7 85        1341           9/14i          5822           584 7          78/8
I                                                                  9,rcr,.rr    aig    134      2 18          -15            20O3           228            2135         -969
2.  lasi,l8rr Counts                          . .            6~     ~      ~~~~          ~~~~          ~~~      ~     ~~~~~~2 214  9/7  69,28  789  15
I   -vca.vvt Eip-adIar-                               . .           IO              452           342             72            8914          944            271
6,  9.-v  ...rai   .p-.diti                                      23             9 58           164           22/5           225a           21o1           3585           9852
7. Jnrl   Solicit                                             ..           -188           -1198         -1881          -1 581         -1969         -2841          -47/16
tutoirial  Laaaa                           83~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d  4 56      4,,2          841            564             7/7           66u           1280
i/rilirr -0 .1e                                                     289             52             34            57             ..            4864          3195
Athar                                ..            ~~~            ~~~~          ~~~~           ~~~     ~     ~~~     ~     ~~~~~25  202  18  441        141 7  Sv I
2/  Cnn/i .1 8.Ortiiiiivvt.                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~Ja-u-y 3, 1980



Ainiex I
TANZAN IA                                                                        Page  5of 6
Bal:E-c- of Payvments and External Assistance
(Million US$)
A'wol l l                                         Pr.lli.inary               Projection
1972         1973         1974         1975         1976          1977         1978         1979          1980         1985          1990
A.  Somniary of Balauce of Piaymer.Ls
1.  Exports (inel. NFS)                                             384.3        434.6        476.0        467.0        632.1         686.3        613.9        672.0         765.2       1289.4       2222.0
2.  lImports (inel. NFS)                                            466.1        546.8        779.8        793.8         697.1        802.4       1210.7       1155.3        1353.2       2170.2       3335.5
3.  Resource  Balance                                               -81.1       -112.2       -303.8       -326.8         -65.0       -116.1       -596.8       -483.3       -588.0        -880.8      -1113.6
4.  Not Factor Service Ilnco--                                       -5.9           7.4         -5.2         -7.3         21.5        -18.7        -24.6         -47.5        -66.5       -137.0        -266.8
1.  Net Interest Pay-onts of which                                3.2         11.2          8.9         -3.1        -17.9        -16.4        -15.8         -37.8        -55.9       -119.8        -239.2
(Interest on Public M 6 LT' L.a.s)                       (-11.1       (-12.5)      (-13.6)       (-16.2)      (-19.5)      (-22.1)      (-24.7)       (-27.8)      (-35.0)    (-121.8)    (-250.2)
2.  Direct Investment ILcoMe
3.  Workers R-mittanc, (Nor)                                    -9.1        -18.6         -14.1         -4.2         -3.6         -2.3          -8.8         -9.7        -10.6         -17.1        -27.6
4.  Other Pactor Sorvice  Incoue INt))
5.  Current Transfers (Net)                                          -4.2          5.0         45.2          92.9         55.4        116.1        175.0        195.0         218.4        384.9         678.3
6.  Balanco on C-rrent AccO-tL                                      -91.4       -114.6       -263.8       -241.2         -31.1        -18.7       -446.4       -335.8        -436.1       -632.8       -702.0
7.  FrivaL.o Diroct lnv,.t,ewnt                                       0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0          5.0          5.4           5.7          6.1           8.6         12.0
8.  Capital Gr.nts                                                   14.0         18.6           6.5         34.9          2.9         13.9           0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0
P,-blic M 6 Lr Lo.-s
9.  uisbarsewentL  1/                                               109.5        113.6        161.3         249.5        122.4        177.8        173.2        210.5
10.  Amuortization IT                                                -34.2        -23.7        -18.8         -18.0        -21.9        -26.4        -26.8        -54.8
11.  Net Disbursements 1/                                             75.3         89.9        142.5        231.5         100.5        151.4        146.4        155.8
12.  use of IMF Reso-rces                                              0.0          0.0         60.3          25.2         23.7          8.8         17.0          30.0
13.  Short-terim Capital TransaeLiolis                                 7.2        -17.9           7.5         -5.1        -38.3         35.1         60.0        120.0
14.  Capital Transactlons, n.e.i.                                     54.8         49.0        -41.4         -:10.1       -10.8        -26.0          0.0           0.0
15.  Cl,auge in Ros..rvos (- = inctrase)                             -59.4        -25.0         94.4        -15.2         -46.9      -169.5         229.0          24.3
11.  Grants and Loans Cojarni twent
1.  Otficial Grants 2/                                                9.8         23.6         51.1        127.8        119.0         130.0        200.0        216.0
2.  Poblic M & LT Loans                                              65.4        107.1        260.4        151.8         194.1        191.3        225.3        269.9
2.1  1811                                                        -            -           65.0         30.0         :17.0        53.0         25.0          66.0
2.2   IDA                                                       10.8         22.6          61.2         10.0         52.0         49.2          73.5         63.0
2.3  other Multilateral                                          3.3           1.8          7.1         18.0         10.8         33.5         27.6          18.2
2.4  Goveriu-ents, of uhich:                                    47.1         82.8         127.1         93.7         82.7         61.3         98.3          30.0
Centrally planned eco-otios                              4.9          3.0         76.5           5.4          -            -            2.6           -
2.5   Suppliers                                                   -            -            -            -            -            -             -           80.0
2.6  Financial  lnstitotinos                                     4.2           -            -            -           11.7          0.3           -           10.0
2.7  Bonds
2.8   Poblic  Loans, n.e.. 3/                                     -            -            -            -            -            -             -            2.8
3.  Othcr M & Ll Loans (whore availa6lI)                             26.4         18.6          5.6           2.9          6.0          -            -
C.  M- -oranduom  [tLes
1.  (iralL El.men,t of T12Aal C.-.sasftsentc                         49.2         83.4         63.1          56.4         66.6         56.8         45.5          32.8
Average interest                                                  3.6          0.6          2.3          3.0          2.2           3.2          4.5          5.4
3.  Average Maturity  (Years)                                        28.1         47.8          32.2         31.9         38.8         35.1         32.8         25.5
IT Includes financing of projected balance, of payments defieit (1979-1990) on blend Bank/liA  terms.
2/ Lcl.dos techinical assistance  grants.                                                                                                                          EALDA
3/ fepr.sents coisitmolnts to cover proje-ted balance of pay,ne.ts deficit.                                                                                       January 2, 1980



Aonex I
TANZANIA                              Page ( of 6
13ebLI and Cr.ditworthinres
Actual
1972         1973         1974         1975        1976         1977         1978
A.  Mcdi   and 1,,,ng-Teru, Debt (Disbu-r,d o0lly)
(US $ Millionl)
1.  Total Deb. OUtaLandling (DOD: Enid of Period)                 441.7        557.1        7^8.3        917.1       1029.2       1123.4       1213.1
2.  Including UIldisbursed                                        835.5        987.3       L280(.5      1359.0       1555.9       1649.3       1806.4
J.  Poblac DebL Service                                            43.3         39.3          32.4        34.1         41.6         48.4         49.6
3. Iliterest                                                      11.1         12.3         IJ.6         16.2         19.5         22.1         24.7
4.  oLher M & LT Debt Service                                        ..           ..           ..           ...
*k'  kw11  vrdenl
I   Deht Service Ratio                                              11.3          9.3          6.8          7.1         6.6           7.1         7.8
2.  Debt Service/GDP                                                 2.8          2.1          1.4          1.3          1.5          1.4          1.1
3.  Public Dcbt Servxee/Guverwu,et ReveOue                          14.7         10.3          6.6          6.4          7.6          7.0          5.8
1.  InLtr.,t .1n Iotal  01[)/JTLdl 00D                               2.5          2.2          1.9          1.8          1.9         2.0           2.0
2    flerdl DIbt Servlce/TeoLl DOD                                   9.8          /.1          4.4          3.7         4.0           4.3          4.1
D.  D))y .dlncy Ratios for F3 M   1.1 DL bt
i.    ba Distclursau.exL/1Iport. (inel. NFS)                        ZJ.3        20.8         20.7          31.4        17.6         22.2         14.5
7.Net 'ra-af.r/Impe,rt  (incl. liFS)                              16.2                                  29.2         14.4
3.  Net I'r-al.er/(;r.ss Disbu -re NF;S)                            68t8 e14                 818           92 8        8241         hil          HI 8
1. .    F  ee. fc                                                                                                                                                                                                                  p...:
1.  lkhD t(lbu'raee,enta/t        'Iotal olxbnraenente             16.9         19.1         10.4         21.0        14.0         17.2         1/.8
2.  Bank Gr--p bisbnralewets/Gro6s Total Disbursnnewnts             19.4         21.8         14.0         28.2         37.2         37.8         31.6
i.  iB(D D0D/Totl DOD                                               12.2         13.4        12.4         15.4         15.1         16.3         17.3
4.  Biank Group 000/total DOII                                      23.1         2J.8         21.1         24.2         25.7         29.3         31.3
5.  I11D DebL Service/Total Debt ServLCe                            10.2         15.3         20.4        26.4         34.1         33.1          40.5
r.  8.oHk Gioup DebL Servi-e/lotal DebL Servi-e                     11.1         16.3         22.5         28.4        d6.5          35.5        43.5
Ontet(.ni dnsIg Ik-e:Dber 31, 19/b
Aemo,ont             P.rcentl
(US   Millto)
F.  Eet. .hI Debt (Oi,b.r6ed Only)
1.  IbF'D                                                                        209.9                      17.3
2.  San-  Gloup                                                                 379.2                      31.3
3.  OLher MltlKtlateral                                                           61.2                       5.0
4.  Gevermamments                                                                714.1                      58.9
of which Ce-trally Planned E-o..oem1-                                    317.3                      26.2
5.  Suppliers                                                                     16.3                       1.4
L.  Fna,wcial lutsit.tlons                                                        18.8                       1.5
7.  Houds                                                                         20.3                       1.7
8.  PI,blic Debt, n.e.i.         1/                                                3.1                       6.3
9.  'Tetal PublIc M & LT Debt                   1/                              1213.1                     100.0
10.   ftal Poblic Debt (i-l. undisb,,r.ed)-                                      1806.4                     148.9
G.   tL Pro f ( I e
1.  P.Ltl DAbL S-avice 19/9-83/Total DIO) E-d of 1978                             60.5%
1/    clnodt.                       II azanlas notIonal sbure of 40% of IAC. debt.                                                                                       LAII)A
2/  FR 1,res..ts 0(DOD on loanlb to cover pro.eertd balan-e of pay-nemLt  detJclt.                                                                                       Janu-ry 2, 1960



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF MARCH 31. 1980
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.          Year  Borrower            Purpose                Bank 1/  TW   IDA 1/ Undisbursed
Five loans and thirteen credits fully disbursed                 77.2          90.8
287-TA    1972  Tanzania  Smallholder Tea                                   10.8      1.1
371-TA    1973  Tanzania  Fourth Education                                  10.3      1.8
382-TA 2/ 1973  Tanzania  Livestock                                         18.5      2.4
454-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cotton                                            17.5      9.0
460-TA    1974  Tanzania  Tanzania Investment Bank                           6.0      0.1
1014-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cashewnut                           21.0                    2.7
495-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sites and Services                                 8.5      1.8
507-TA     1974  Tanzania  Highway Maintenance                              10.2      2.9
508-TA    1974  Tanzania  Rural Development                                 10.0      4.8
1041-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sugar                                9.0                    0.8
580-TA    1975  Tanzania  Dairy                                             10.0      6.1
1128-TA    1975  Tanzania  Textile                             15.0                    2.2
1172-TA    1975  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank          15.0                    1.5
601-TA    1976  Tanzania  Technical Assistance                               6.0      2.6
606-TA    1976  Tanzania  National Maize Program                            18.0    10.6
607-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fifth Education                                   11.0      7.1
1306T-TA    1976  Tanzania  Power                                      30.0            10.1
1307-TA    1976  Tanzania  Forestry                             7.0                    2.8
652-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fisheries                                          9.0      7.7
658-TA    1976  Tanzania  Tobacco Processing                                 8.0      1.3
1354-TA    1977  Tanzania  Urban Water Supply                  15.0                    9.8
1385T-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex                11.5             3.8
1386-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex    11.5                         3.5
703-TA 3/ 1977  Tanzania  Rural Development (Tabora)                         7.2      5.6
732-TA    1977  Tanzania  Second Sites and Services                         12.0    11.3
743-TA    1977  Tanzania  Trucking                                          15.0    10.8
1498-TA    1977  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank          15.0                    7.1
801-TA    1978  Tanzania  Second Cashewnut                                  27.5    11.5
802-TA    1978  Tanzania  Tobacco Handling                                  14.0    13.8
803-TA    1978  Tanzania  Rural Dev. (Mwanza/Shinyanga)                     12.0    11.0
1607-TA    1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                    25.0                   24.9
833-TA    1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                                  20.0    18.7
860-TA    1979  Tanzania  Tourism Rehabilitation                            14.0    14.0
861-TA    1979  Tanzania  Sixth Education                                   12.0    12.0
875-TA    1979  Tanzania  M4ufindi Pulp and Paper                           30.0    30.0
1650-TA    1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper              30.0                   30.0
876-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Fifth Highway                                     20.5    20.5
1745-TA    1979  TDFL        Tanganyika Development
Finance Co., Ltd.               11.05/                11.0
1750-TA     1979  TIB        Tanzania Investment Bank          25.0-
S-24-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Dar es Salaam Port
Engineering                                     25    2.5
Total                                                      276.7  41.5   431.3  357.1
of which has been repaid                                 8.9  _ -   _ 7.7
Total now outstanding                                  267.8  41.5   423.6
Amount sold                           0.1
of which has been repaid            0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                          267.8  41.5   423.6
Total undisbursed                                          122.3  13.9   220.9  357.1
I/   Net of exchange adjustments.
2/   Includes Norwegian participation of $6.2 million of which $5.6 million
has been disbursed.
3/   Amount excludes Canadian participation of $4.8 million.
4/   Not yet effective.
5/   Excludes $15.0 million EEC Special Action Credit being administered by IDA.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS JF MARCH 31, 1980
(US$ million)
Loan                                                Amount (less cancellations)
No.      Year   Borrower         Purpose            Bank 1/          Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                           93.4
638-EA  1969    EAHC          Harbours              35.0               0.5
674-EA  1970    EARC          Railways              42.4               0.1
865-EA  1972    EAHC          Harbours              26.5               0.9
914-EA  1973    EAPTC         Telecommunications  32.5                 1.0
1204-EA  1976    EADB          Development Finarce 15.0                 5.9
Total                                           244.8               8.4
of which has been repaid                     56.4
Total now outstanding                           188.4
Amount sold                      24.4
of which has been repaid      24.4             0.0
Total now held by Bank 1/                       188.4
Total undisbursed                                 8.4               8.4
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(AS OF MARCH 31, 1980)
There are currently 37 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 287-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: US$10.8 million
Credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - July 26,
1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
After initial serious management problems, the Tanzania Tea
Authority (TTA) has finally reached a satisfactory level of senior staffing
and this has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and resulted in improved
control over field activities. Factory engineers have been appointed for all
factories. Because of weak extension and poor farm practices in the past,
about 1,600 ha of the 9,671 ha planted since 1971 must be infilled or rehabil-
itated, and yields have been lower than anticipated. In line with the 1976
survey of the tea industry, additional planting has been carried out and
effective rehabilitation and infilling has been achieved except in the Bukoba
area. Recommendations of the survey regarding crop yields, husbandry tech-
niques, field organization, TTA structure and extension activities are also
being implemented. Furthermore, market trends in tea have taken a favorable
turn. In general, progress on the project is improving. The closing date
has been postponed to allow sufficient time for completion of the Mwakaleli
factory.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project:
US$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This project was the subject of an in-depth review in November
1976 and again in January 1979. Although progress has been made in alleviating
the financial problems of the meat processing parastatal (TPL), in correcting
some of the deficiencies in the livestock marketing parastatal (TLMC), and in
adopting some of the decentralized management recommendations in the ranching
parastatal (NARCO), TPL will still need to improve its overall efficiency, and
NARCO its unsatisfactory financial situation. The most serious issue is the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
lack of adequate financial support from the Treasury; this issue was taken up
during the last review and the Tanzania Livestock Development Authority (LIDA)
is organizing a meeting between NARCO, the Commissioner for Public Investment
(CPI) and the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) to address the issue
of equity contribution. In summary, although progress has been made, major
problems remain and will require continued attention. The closing date of
the Credit has been postponed by 12 months to December 31, 1980 in order to
complete the ranch development program.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: US$17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982         _
The project continued to show good progress since the appointment
in October 1977 of a new Project Manager. However, in view of the failure
of the crop technical packages to give economic responses, the project must
now be considered to be an infrastructure and edaptive research project rather
than an agricultural production project. A major objective is now to develop
a more soundly based and productive agriculturc.l strategy. The most signifi-
cant progress has been in the trial program with about 50 well distributed
and supervised trial sites and improved credit recovery. Recruitment of
staff has been more vigorously pursued since the Project Implementation
Reviews began. Project problems remaining are the lack of senior staff,
the shortage of extension staff, delay in deliveries of some equipment and
financing of road construction. The project will continue to be kept under
close review.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: US$21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Construction of the five factories and ancillary facilities is pro-
ceeding well in accordance with the revised comnpletion schedule. Processing
plant and machinery has been delivered to two Eactories, and is under shipment
for the remaining three. The project faces problems with regard to expected
marketed production reaching potential processing capacity. This continued
decline in the marketed production is, however, puzzling in view of the price
increase and the attractive returns per labor day. An intensive analysis of
the cashewnut production issue is to be carried out by the Government agencies
responsible for review of agricultural production in Tanzania. The take over
of the industry by the Cashewnut Authority (CArA) and the consolidation of its
activities are proceeding; its management has improved since the appointment
of a new General Manager last year.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20. 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Progress has been made in improving control of materials flow for
civil works, promotion of a coffee production program, labor-intensive road
works, project accounting and disbursement performance, and increasing farmer
demand for inputs. However, project implementation continues to be slow.
Little construction work has taken place over the last five months of wet
season agricultural activities. Trials were planted late in two of the
three districts due to misallocation of project finance vehicles. Little
action has been taken on procurement. As recommended in the mid-term review
of this project, agreement has been reached on a number of proposed amend-
ments to the legal documents in order to make the project design more flexible.
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project: US$9.0 million Credit and US$9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 14, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Project work is virtually completed except for purchase of some
vehicles and completion of the sugar survey and the training program. In view
of this, the closing date has been postponed by 12 months. Kilombero Sugar
Company's (KSC) land development on behalf of outgrowers continues and
is expected to exceed appraisal estimates due to lower than expected cane
yields. A new management advisory agreement for a further two years with
emphasis on agriculture will be financed by the Netherlands. Phase III of
the Sugar Study has been started and should be completed shortly. With regard
to the Sugar Development Corporation's request to Treasury to consider KSC's
proposals as to its debt-equity ratio, the Treasury has decided to provide
KSC TSh. 100 million as equity and TSh. 100 million as loan from Dutch/Danish
sources. The loan will be at an interest rate of 7% p.a. with 30 years
repayment including 5 years of grace. The Subsidiary Loan Agreement is under
preparation and is expected to be signed by the Treasury shortly.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: US$9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The Project is progressing at a slower pace than anticipated and
fishing operations are now expected to begin by early 1980. Eight vessels for
the coastal commercial centers are already under construction, and procurement
of engines and fishing gear is in progress. Tender documents for the procure-
ment of steel boats for the Kigoma Commercial Center are being finalized.
The recent outbreaks of cholera at Lake Tanganyika have caused a setback in
Project activities on the Lake, particularly the Ujamaa Village Program, and
steps have been taken to speed up the identification of suitable villages and
the preparation of investment plans.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: US$18.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Elffectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Although the project has made some satisfactory progress with regard
to village participation, delivery of inputs and concentration of high poten-
tial maize regions, it is beset by a number of problems which must be overcome
if the project is to achieve its primary objective. Following a midterm
review of the project, the Government submitted in September 1978 draft pro-
posal for a three year Intensification Phase i:a six regions where potential
for increasing production exists, extending tha project period from July 1979
to June 1982. The project has therefore been redesigned in order to intensify
the project activities during the remaining period. The redesign of the
project has been agreed upon by the Government, BADEA (the co-financier) and
the Association.
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
The project status deteriorated during 1978. The large scale para-
statal farms have been poorly managed, production is below expectation and
financial prospects are dismal. The ujamaa component proceeds slowly and
the Tanzania Rural Development Bank is actively investigating alternative
means of assisting village milk production and consumption. The foot and
mouth disease control investigation has commenced. The project will continue
to be kept under close review.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: US$7.0
million Loan of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - Jure 30, 1982
Although the project got off to a slow start, physical progress has
now been satisfactory for the past two years. The nurseries are well stocked
and maintained, and the current planting program on schedule. Progress on
fire protection, road construction and building is satisfactory. Procurement
of equipment needed for the next season is, however, delayed and project
accounts need updating. These are partly due to staffing problems; the
position of financial controller and workshop foreman became vacant as well
as the position of assistant project manager and silviculturist/economist.
Government is approaching bilateral agencies for recruitment assistance.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: US$8.0 million
Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - February 15,
1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Improvements to the existing line were completed except for instal-
lation of the main circuit breaker equipment. Building work at Morogoro is
proceeding satisfactorily. TAT/TTPC are preparing a properly coordinated
building program to cover the balance of the project, and proposals are
awaited from the Treasury rationalizing the financial and functional responsi-
bilities of these entities. TAT's financial position is critical due to high
bank overdrafts. The Treasury has agreed to reimburse TAT TSh. 29 million
representing the local contribution it has spent on the project. In addition,
TAT has also claimed TSh. 13 million from the Treasury to meet the cost
incurred by them during 1977-78. TTPC's accounts for 1976/77 have been
audited and the report is expected shortly.
Credit No. 703-TA and Credit No. 703-TA-5 - Tabora Rural
Development Project: US$12.0 million Credits 1/ of May 11,
1977; Date of Effectiveness - November 11, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
The level of regional commitment to the project has been good and
overall project performance is satisfactory; disbursements are on schedule.
However, some delays have been experienced in the delivery of equipment and
vehicles procured under the project, and shortage of trained extension agents
in the Region continues to hamper the crop development component. These
delays should not be over-emphasized since project management has been
effective in getting the project initiated.
Credit No. 801-TA - Second Cashewnut Development Project;
US$27.5 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness -
October 2, 1978; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This credit became effective on October 2, 1978. Project implemen-
tation is progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 802-TA - Tobacco Handling Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness - January 5, 1979;
Closing Date - April 30, 1983
The project has made a slow start. Procurement of vehicles and
equipment is also lagging. However, progress on recruitment of technical
assistance has been good.  The Building Engineer, Financial Systems Develop-
ment Assistant and Transport Officer are all in post. Three suitable can-
didates have been identified for the five posts of Regional Accountant and
advertisement of the other two have been done.
1/   Credit No. 703-TA-5 (US$4.8 million) is financed under the special CIDA
arrangement; Credit No. 703-TA is an IDA Credit of US$7.2 million.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Credit No. 803-TA - Rural Developmen: Project (Mwanza/
Shinyanga): US$12.0 million Credit of June 14, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness - March 5, 1979;
Closing Date - December 31, 1984
While some of the senior support staEf have been recruited, most key
posts remain to be filled, and although good progress has been made in the
livestock, water resource and forestry componeits, the expected implementation
of an experimental program of agricultural extension has not been initiated.
Future supervision missions will pay particulac attention to progress made by
the agricultural extension staff towards improving the extension system. The
effects of the Uganda war are still being felt in the project's area causing
problems for the supplies situation.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: US$10.3
million Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
July 2, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Physical implementation, particularly the execution of civil works,
has improved considerably and overall completion of the project has reached
95%. However, to allow sufficient time for completion, the Closing Date has
been postponed to December 31, 1980. Total project cost is now estimated at
about TSh. 109 million, an increase of approximately 5% over the appraisal
estimate of TSh. 104 million. The Government does not foresee any financial
problem in providing the required additional funds. Three Community Education
Centers out of eight have started operating programs for village development,
education and training for youth and adults. The two Vocational Training
Centers are in operation at almost full capacity. The technical assistance
and fellowship programs are approaching complEtion and matching funds dis-
bursed. Savings under the technical assistance and fellowship component of
the project are estimated at approximately US$11.3 million.
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: US$11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress in physical implementation is satisfactory. Construction
of extensions to fifteen secondary schools is progressing well and construc-
tion of 1,500 houses for Village Management Technicians, although delayed,
shows some improvement. In fact, housing con,truction is in line with VMT
training which will be extended until mid-1980 as a result of the reassignment
of over 500 VMTs as Village Managers in Janual-y 1978. There are delays in
recruitment of experts by UNESCO to assist a ;secondary school facilities
survey and in recruitment of accountancy experts for the National Board of
Accountants and Auditors. Implementation of a separate review of accountancy
training and a survey of primary schools are progressing slowly. Despite
these delays, project completion can be expected by the initial Closing Date
of June 30, 1982 and no financial problems are envisaged at present.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Credit 861-TA - Sixth Education Project - US$12.0 million
Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - June 25, 1979;
Closing Date - June 30, 1985
This credit became effective on June 25, 1979. The Ministry of
Labor has appointed a representative to the Project Unit and is working with
the Ministry of Education on a plan for coordinating project implementation.
TOURISM SECTOR
Credit No. 860-TA - Tourism Rehabilitation Project
US$14.0 million Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness - August 24, 1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
This credit became effective on August 24, 1979. Project implemen-
tation is progressing satisfactorily. Recruitment of project coordinator is
being finalized and the consultants for the rehabilitation of project lodges
and hotels, have been appointed.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: US$10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
After a slow start, project implementation improved and all equip-
ment procured through ICB has been delivered. However, rehabilitation,
regravelling and routine maintenance activities have been seriously affected
by the war in Uganda and by the termination of some expatriate technical
assistance. It is now necessary to recast the project by amending its
scope to address the problems which have been encountered in its implementa-
tion; these changes will bring the project in line with the Fifth Highway
Project. The Closing Date has been postponed to December 31, 1980 to allow
for completion of the project and the disbursement but might need further
extension. The technical assistance contract with the consulting firm "ORT"
expired in November 1979, and the Government is now recruiting individual
experts to complete the project.
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project: US$15 million Credit of
November 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Implementation planning is progressing well. Initial progress in
the recruitment of technical assistance has been good, with 24 people in post
or approved out of a total of 29. The project is experiencing some problem
with equity contribution for the proposed project transport companies. The
Treasury proposed to provide the balance of the equity contribution for



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
1979/80. The National Transport Coordination (NTC) has submitted a report
to the Treasury regarding the availability and distribution of vehicle spare
parts in recent years. NTC has also commissioned a study of the role and
objective of the National Institute of Transport. The design of the transport
data collection system is progressing well.
Credit No. 876-TA - Fifth Highway Prcject; US$20.5 million
Credit of March 2, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective.  It is a continuation of the
Highway Maintenance Project (Credit No. 507-TA) aimed at maintaining the
national trunk road system and will draw upon experience gained during the
previous project.
PORTS SECTOR
Credit No. S-24-TA - Dar es Salaam Ports Engineering Project:
US$2.5 million Credit of February 27. 1980; Closing Date -
June 30, 1980
This Credit is not yet effective.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - National Sites and Services Project;
US$8.5 million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - Deceinber 31, 1980
Infrastructure construction has been completed satisfactorily on
all project sites. Construction of health facilities in Dar es Salaam is
completed and ready of occupation. Education facilities for the Dar es
Salaam sites have been completed; the rest of the community facilities in the
project are nearing completion. Progress on the lending program administered
by the Tanzania Housing Bank is slow although satisfactory progress is being
made in the implementation of the action program to improve it. Total project
cost is estimated (at current exchange rates) at US$15.9 million, compared to
the appraisal estimate of US$16.7 million. The closing date has been postponed
by six months to allow for completion of the remaining construction activities.
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services
Project: US$12.0 million Credit of November 3, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress on implementation is satisfactory for the residential com-
ponents although overall implementation progress is slow. Preparation of the
small scale industry component is also making satisfactory progress. All
project staff have now been appointed. The Ccnsultants' report on the Land
Rent and Service Charge Study was approved by the Government in January 1978



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
and a pilot test of the new Urban Charge System for cost recovery proposed in
the study was carried out in Morogoro. However, progress in the implementa-
tion of this system in other areas is slow. Disbursements are substantially
behind appraisal estimates. These issues will be reviewed during the next
supervision nission.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of January 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1981
Of the five main contracts for water supply works in Morogoro, con-
tract for exploratory drilling at Mindu Dam site is completed, two contracts
for plant (pumping and treatment) are in the stage of final inspection of
goods prior to shipment to Tanzania, and two construction contracts were
awarded in December 1978 and March 1979. Completion of the water works
expansion is expected in February 1981, 21 months behind schedule, but a
pilot operation is scheduled to commence in November 1980. Project cost is
now estimated at US$27.6 million, 43% over the appraisal estimate of US$19.2
million. In December 1978, the Government approved an increase in its contri-
bution to the project to cover the financing gap. Some progress has been made
towards creation of a parastatal national urban water supply authority and
increase in tariff to maintain their levels in real terms at the level exist-
ing in July 1976. Progress in project implementation and the expected large
increase in project costs will have to be closely monitored.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-T-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II;
US$30 million Loan on Third Window Terms of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness - March 1, 1977; Closing Date -
December 31, 1981
The project is financed by IBRD, SIDA and KfW. All contracts
have been awarded. Project construction is on schedule at all sites. TANESCO
has obtained approval on its tariff increase. Current estimated project cost
is US$97.8 million compared to appraisal estimate of US$89 million, a cost
overrun of 28%. This is mainly due to underestimation of the project costs by
the engineering consultants. KfW has already increased its contribution to
the project and SIDA has indicated that it would be prepared to increase its
allocation to cover its proportionate share of the cost overruns. An EEC
Special Action Credit (No. 55-TA) in the amount of US$7.0 million to be
administered by IDA, has been allocated to this project.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
US$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of Effective-
ness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
This Credit has been fully committed. Because of a reallocation
of funds from a subproject previously approved to a new one still under
implementation, the credit is still not fully disbursed and the closing
date has been postponed to June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 1171-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - February 20,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 198)
This loan is fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1498-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of December 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness -
April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
This loan is now fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1750-TA 1/ - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$25.0 million
Loan of August 20, 1979; Date of EffEctiveness - February 5, 1980;
Closing Date - June 30, 1984
This loan became effective on February 5, 1980.
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effecl:iveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - July 1, 1980
The project provides for expansion o:: an existing textile mill and
is designed to increase annual fabric production capacity by 20 million linear
meters. Project implementation performance has been acceptable and all tech-
nical installations are now operating satisfactorily. The National Textile
Corporation (TEXCO), the holding company for s:ate-owned textile mills, has
agreed to institute an immediate action programn to improve the operating
performance of existing mills. The project was technically completed in
October 1978 with a savings of about US$1.7 miLlion. In order to utilize this
amount for rehabilitation of the existing faciLities, which are essential parts
of the project, the Closing Date was postponed by one year to July 1, 1980.
1/   In addition, a US$15.0 million EEC Special Action Credit in support of this
project is being administered by IDA.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: US$6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
Total commitments as of September 30, 1979 were US$4.8 million of
which US$4.1 million, US$0.4 million and US$0.3 million were for consultancy
services, training and project unit services, respectively. The procedures
for processing proposals have been streamlined and it is expected that the
pace of commitments and disbursements will be increased.
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 1386-TA - Morogoro Industrial
Complex:  US$11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and
US$11.5 million Bank loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - July 6, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily in spite of
some initial delays in the appointment of consultants and start-up of pro-
curement. Although there will be some delays in the start-up of individual
components of the Industrial Complex, completion of the project is still
scheduled for July 1982. Revised capital cost estimates are only slightly
higher than those contained in the Appraisal Report.
Credit No. 833-TA/Loan No. 1607-TA - Morogoro Textile Project:
US$20.0 million Credit and US$25.0 million Loan of June 29,
1978; Date of Effectiveness - May 7, 1979; Closing Date -
June 30, 1985
This loan and this credit became effective on May 7, 1979. Prep-
aration of tender documents are progressing satisfactorily and no delay in
project completion is anticipated.
Credit No. 875-TA/Loan No. 1650-TA - Mufindi Pulp and Paper
Project: US$30.0 million Credit and US$30.0 million Loan
of April 6, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
This loan and this credit are not yet effective.
Loan No. 1745-TA - Tanganyika Development Finance Company, Ltd.
(TDFL) Project: US$11.0 million Loan of July 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness - November 1, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
This loan became effective on November 1, 1979.  About 70% of the
loan amount has been committed.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project:  US$35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effe-tiveness - December 16,
1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school build-
ing and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths
and a lighterage quay, construction of a tug bErth, cold storage facilities
and a training building in Mombasa and improveaent of a lighterage quay in
Tanga.  Construction of all major project elements has been completed and
a joint project completion report was issued ir. January 1979. Because of
shortage of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have
not been submitted for Bank financing:  the second phase of modernization of
the lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed
contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mocibasa. General cargo throughput
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
productivity has improved with increasing throughput; however, port labor
productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Author-
ity and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacte~d. Management of Ports in
1/   Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive Direc-
tors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) ani approved on January 12, 1978,
is given in this Annex. The closing date for Loans 638-EA, 674-EA and
865-EA have passed. However, since the anount allocated to and guaran-
teed by each Partner State is clearly identified under the terms of the
Agreement signed on January 25, 1978 as proposed in the above report
(R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
both countries is competent. Some US$34.5 million of Loan 638-EA and US$25.6
million of Loan 865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of
undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given
below:
For Loan No. 638-EA                     (US$ million)
Kenya                                  0.7
Tanzania                               0.6
Total                              1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                                  1.7
Tanzania                               0.3
Total                              2.0
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project:  US$42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30,
1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to
be used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material.
All three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Rail-
ways Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1,
1977 among the various countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya                   2.0
Tanzania                3.8
Uganda                  1.9
Total                   7.7
On January 12, 1978, the Executive Director approved the utilization
of US$1.2 million equivalent to finance the East African Mediation effort.
This amount, in addition to US$0.5 million provided by UNDP for this purpose,
is expected to cover the total estimated cost of the mediation service.



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for pr:curement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items except the microwave radio system have been
completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The slippage
of the project's completion was due to initial delays in procurement caused
by staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of headquarters.
About US$31.5 million of the loan had been disbursed to date. The agreed
allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1, 1977 among the countries
concerned is as follows:
$ Million
Kenya                    2.4
Tanzania                 3.5
Uganda                   0.1
Total                    6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
The environment within the Community has continued to have a nega-
tive impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal and
supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in the
state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from 50%
as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of June 30, 1979., Some US$9.1 million of the
loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncomaitted balance amounts to
US$3.0 million.



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN TANZANIA
AS OF MARCH 31, 1980
Fiscal Year            Obligor            Type of Business       Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1960 and 1964   Kilombero Sugar Company  Food Processing         3.96    0.70    4.66
1978             Highland Soap and         Soap Manufacture    1.38    0.36    1.74
Allied Products Limited
1979            Metal Products Limited   Household Utensils  1.33    0.18    1.51
Total gross commitments                       6.67    1.24    7.91
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                     3.96    0.70    4.66
Total commitments now held by IFC            2.71    0.54    3.25
Total Undisbursed                            2.71    0.54    3.25



- 49 -
ANNEX III
TANZANIA
SONGO SONGO PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events:
(a)    Time taken to prepare the project:    Five months
(b)    Project prepared by:                     Government and Consultants
(c)    First presentation to Bank Group:        September 1979
(d)    Departure of Appraisal Mission:          January 1980
(e)    Completion of negotiations:              May 8, 1980
(f)    Planned date of effectiveness:           September 1980
II. Special IDA Implementation Action:
An advance of US$400,000 under the PPF was approved in March 1980
to assist in the preparation of the project.
III. Special Conditions:
(a)    The engineering Credit would be refinanced under any subsequent
Credit or Loan the Bank Group may provide to finance a petro-
leum development project based on the results of this project.
However, if the project fails to prove enough reserves to
justify commercial development, the terms of the engineering
credit would be extended to standard IDA terms (para. 54).
(b)    TPDC would, by not later than July 31, 1980, establish a
Project Unit within its organizaticn which would include a
project coordinator, a geologist, a geophysicist, a drilling
engineer, a materials/logistic engineer and a project
accountant (para. 58).
(c)    TPDC would submit to the Associaticn for its review and
approval a report on the results of the drilling of the
first two wells not later than 30 days from the completion
of drilling, including recommendations for drilling of
further wells (para. 59).



- 50 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) Before disbursements can commence against technical
assistance for the second phase of the drilling program
and for completion of the first two wells, the Association
should have received and approved the recommendations made
in respect of the implementation of the second phase of
the drilling program and that firm arrangements for the
financing of the drilling of the additional wells have
been made by the Government (para. 61).



IBRD 14955
A IL 1550
.UGANtDA                    A
SOMALI,
/              ~~KENYA
.                                                                                      KEN Y A   
K      NYA                                                                  q ;  f  TA N Z A N   A
TANZANIA S     '.- x| CIAN
L~k.
\  VOSHI ,f            V i                                     i    tAMtI8A  it2 
NrA I Rt                    INI:
MOM .  BOMBASA           TANZ.NiA
TANZANIA
GEOI.OGY OF COASTAL TANZANIA
Main roads
Secondary roads
\ 0 (<tJ$}@t~.,Wt Rivers
TNGA    /      PEMBA 1,              Raiil.oYs
ic8                 International airports
**   Scheduled service airports
Rogonol boundaries
AS MA ZANZABAR 1.                     -  Internationl boundories
ZANZABARI                          Geological trends
Z                ft-)~~(~    Exploratory wells
(ogamopo                                 Exploration license areas
XpC, f) \          ,aMi   Kunrduchi
5f =g 4RDor rt~~~~~~~~~s Soaloam
) i rng _. KISANGRE I \e>7
OA                       MAFI ttAf41
. 2                                        oF   = >    ?.|go0 20    40   60  F0    tOO  120  140   160
KILOMETERS
14v                         20     2       40        60         80      100
,d K11a Kivinje  oTtA. rosrth.wmowxos4,.s.ohe  Th            s etSte
>-    °   \(   /   <     /                    titClEt>N w~~~~crn.,, £50.,  O t  th,p t 0 tt,,   t r 5 e o,,    t  Ott. Ii50kS.| k.o £,t,ttFt
/iCt~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*T,n *''l,o,tnM/a \r,, onot t.otqo \o    so.,>
f   r   .               -, EtZ                     /~~~I  D/A  N       OCt AIV
//    Liwn                            v      t <
T. S.n9g. .                 Masasd  >
>               M+Z~AMBI QUE                       



