Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21509
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-20022; SCL-38660; SCL-38661; SCL-38662; TF-20021; TF-20023)
ON A
SINGLE CURRENCY LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$25 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
FOR AN ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ASSISTANCE PROJECT
February 6, 2001
Private and Financial Sector Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 16, 2000)
Currency Unit = Litas (LT)
LT 1.00 = US$ 0.25
US$ 1.00 = 3.99 Litas
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BIS                               Bank for International Settlements
BOL                               Bank of Lithuania
CAS                               Country Assistance Strategy
DM                                Deutsche Mark
EBRD                              European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ECU                               European Currency Unit
EFF                               Extended Fund Facility
EU                                European Union
EU Phare                          EU Agency providing aid to Eastern Europe and the Baltic States
FFr                               French Franc
IAS                               International Accounting Standards
ICB                               International Competitive Bidding
IF                               Investment Fund (trading in Lithuanian vouchers)
IFC                               International Finance Corporation
IMF                               International Monetary Fund
IP                               International Public Offering
LIBOR                             Long Inter-Bank Offerred Rate
LIPSP                             Law on the Initial Privatization of State Property
PHRD Fund                         Population and Human Resources Development Fund
SAB                               State Agricultural Bank
SCB                               State Commercial Bank
SCL                               Single Currency Loan
USAID                             United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:   Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager/Director:   Lars Jeurling
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Peter Modeen



FOR OFFICI USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  13
6. Sustainability                                                                      14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       16
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     19
9. Partner Comments                                                                   21
10. Additional Information                                                            40
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  41
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   42
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   44
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   45
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  47
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      48
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  49
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008536                                       Proect Name: ENT & FIN SECT
Team Leader: Peter M. Modeen                              TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: February 6, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: ENT & FIN SECT                                 L/C/TF Ntmber: TF-20022;
SCL-38660;
SCL-38661;
SCL-38662;
TF-20021; TF-20023
Country/Department: LITHUANIA                                            Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: FS - Financial Sector Development; II - Industrial
Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/20/93                                 Effective: 12/19/95           12/19/95
Appraisal:  09/15/94                                  MTR:
Approval:  04/13/95                                Closing: 06/30/2001           06/30/2001
BorrowerlImplementing Agency:  GOVT. OF LITHUANIA/BANK OF LITH. & CONSULTA
Other Partners: The Danish, Swedish and Dutch Governments, EU-Phare, USAID
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                           Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Basil G. Kavalsky                          Basil Kavalsky
Sector Manager:      Lars Jeurling                              Paul Siegelbaumn
Team Leader at ICR:   Peter Modeen
ICR Primary Author:   Peter Modeen
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Peiformiance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        HS
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main development objectives were to support and help accelerate the Government's reform
efforts in the enterprise and financial sectors, focusing in particular on (i) strengthening the
banking system and (ii) the delivery of finance to support the development of private and
privatised enterprises, by providing financial resources for this purpose, and (iii) technical
assistance to improve the capacity of both the banking system to deliver such resources, and of
enterprises to prepare plans to secure them. An important ancillary objective was to accelerate the
reorganisation and/or liquidation of large non-viable state-owned enterprises to move their assets
into the hands of private entrepreneurs who were expected to use them more effectively, and to
facilitate required post-privatisation restructuring of troubled firms.
By the time the Bank started working on a project in the financial and enterprise sectors, the
Government had already moved rapidly on breaking up the Soviet banking system, had licensed a
large number of new private banks, and had established a banking supervision function within the
Bank of Lithuania BoL. The Government had also started privatisation of the enterprise sector
through a voucher scheme, and had introduced reforms to facilitate the establishment and running
of private enterprises.
During discussions with the Government about the loan and the project, extensive talks were also
held about further reforms of the finance and enterprise sectors. It was evident that the
Government was committed to further reforms and had, in fact, already initiated several projects
in this area. The BoL had also adopted a program to strengthen bank regulation and supervision.
The environment and the timing was thus right for an investment operation. The demand side also
pointed to an investment rather than an adjustment operation. And there was good response by
the government to the policy dialogue maintained throughout the preparatory and appraisal
stages, and continued during preparations for the first structural adjustment loan, which was
negotiated in 1996.
3.2 Revised Objective:
As the banking sector weakened and eventually went into a severe crisis in 1996, there was a need
for assistance to solve the insolvency of the state-owned banks and the distress experienced by a
number of remaining large state-owned enterprises beyond what was envisaged in the EFSAP.
The Bank therefore discussed with the Government the possibility of a Bank and Enterprise
Restructuring Project (BERP) as a complement to the EFSAP. Due to the enactment of a new
Privatisation Law, i.a. transferring privatisation to a new institution (the State Property Fund),
hesitation on part of the Government to take decisive steps to close private banks and privatise
the state banks in the wake of the banking crisis, and unwillingness to borrow for a restructuring
project, the Bank's direct involvement in privatisation and post-privatisation restructuring did not
mateTialise. Although private insolvent banks were eventually closed, this became a drawn-out
and costly process for the Government and left the state-owned banks to continue in a largely
- 2-



unreformed state and therefore in continuous need for support from the Government. The failure
to deal effectively with the banking crisis has weighted down Lithuania's recovery. It has also
affected the implementation of the ancillary objective of assisting the Government in the
restructuring and privatisation of troubled state enterprises. However, pre-privatisation assistance
was given to a number of state-owned enterprises in the form of restructuring and feasibility
studies procured by Consulta (see below Section 3.3).
3.3 Original Conmponents:
Project Costs (US$ million equivalent):     Financing Plan (US$ million equivalent):
Bank Capitalisation         10.0            Government of Lithuania        0.5
Investment Sub-Projects     26.5            World Bank                   25.0
Technical Assistance        13.8            Govermment of Sweden          10.0
Total                       50.3            EU Phare                       3.3
USAID                         0.5
Other donors                  4.2
Lithuanian enterprises        6.8
Total                        50.3
The Project comprised a Credit Line (CL) and a technical assistance component (TA). The CL
component was to provide resources through qualified participating banks for medium-term loans
to private enterprises. This was to be supplemented by a capital facility of approximately US$10
million from the government of Sweden, which was to be available to expand the capital base of
participating banks. The TA component would aim at overcoming deficiencies in: (i) bank
regulation and supervision; (ii) commercial banks' institutional capacity and appraisal skills; (iii)
the Government's capacity to reorganise/liquidate non-viable state-owned enterprises; and (iv)
enterprise strategic planning capacity. In addition, targeted assistance would be provided to
ensure that sub-projects were adequately screened for environmental impact.
The project design included several new innovative features. It also took influence from lessons
learned of similar projects in Central Europe. The most important innovations were:
- The Swedish capital facility - simultaneously introduced in Latvia - was a new feature, which
fitted very well in to the acute needs of most banks to improve their capital structure and which,
with the link to the use of the Credit Line, was designed to promote the use of the latter, and vice
versa.
- The Loan was - as one of the first loans in the region - made as a single currency loan and the
Credit Line has a bullet repayment, both in regard to the borrower and the participating banks.
The latter enables re-lending by the banks of the proceeds, possibly several times. These features
made the loan terms much more user-friendly for the borrower and more market oriented for the
participating banks.
-3 -



- Another new and very essential component was the use of Consulta to support the demand side
and to help ensure a quick disbursement of the Credit Line. Consulta was established in 1993 as a
result of co-operation between the Government and EU Phare. In 1995 Consulta was assigned the
task of administrator and intermediary for the TA component of the EFSAP Loan. In 1997
Consulta was reorganised into a public company in accordance with a new law on public entities.
Consulta's "founder" was the Ministry of European Affairs and the governing body was the
Supervisory Board, with members from various ministries and the private sector. Consulta was
ensured freedom from interference in its day-today activities through its policies and procedures,
which were prepared with the assistance of and approved by the Bank The TA provided by and
through Consulta was designed to provide both pre- and post-privatization assistance. The
pre-privatisation assistance was intended to help prepare some large, difficult, state-owned
enterprises for restructuring through bankruptcy or case-by-case privatisation on a pilot basis. The
post-privatization assistance aimed at assisting private enterprises - whether privatized or
green-field - to prepare feasibility studies, business plans, investment plans and the like, and to
provide free-standing TA to strengthen enterprises' competitive position in world markets and
their access to finance generally. On the assumption that there were important "public goods"
benefits associated with Consulta's support, it was deliberately partially subsidised to make it
affordable to entrepreneurs and to foster the development of a qualified local private consulting
industry.
3.4 Revised Components:
Actual project cost and financing were as follows:
Revised Project Cost                         Revised Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent):                    (US$ million equivalent):
Bank Capitalisation       5.0                Government of Lithuania    0.5
Investment Sub-Projects    27.5              World Bank               25.0
Technical Assistance      9.8                Govmt of Sweden           5.0
Total                    42.3                EU Phare                  3.3
USAID                     0.5
Other donors              1.2
Lith. enterprises         6.8
Total                    42.3
The contribution of the Swedish Capital Fund (later transformed into Swedfund) to strengthening
the capital base of participating banks worked well and as intended. The main reason for the
reduction in this component was that - partly as a result of the participation of Swedfund - other
foreign strategic and financial investors became interested in investing in these banks, and the
objective was thus achieved with smaller than originally intended investments by Swedfund. The
strict link between investments by Swedfund and the use of the Credit Line was not needed and
therefore not enforced, partly because disbursements of the latter were progressing well without
this additional incentive.
-4 -



Most elements of the TA component achieved their objectives and were realised in a highly
satisfactory manner. The planned quantity and quality of the TA was achieved at a lower than
expected cost. Another reason for the lower than estimated spending on TA was, that the project
to reorganise/liquidate non-viable state enterprises was never implemented.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
At the time of appraisal the QAE assessment system was not in place. The project was assessed
within the regular IEPS/SAR system. On the basis of the criteria established for QAE, the Project
can generally be assessed to have been thoroughly and very well prepared. The objectives and
design of the project were consistent with the CAS and in line with government priorities. The
quality of design was, on the whole, excellent. Legal and institutional weaknesses were identified
through special studies of the banking and enterprises sectors and during preparatory missions,
and TA, both during this process and as part of the Project, was designed to remedy these
weaknesses (and actually did so to a high degree). Nevertheless, some areas of improvement can
be identified. With hindsight more conditions and technical assistance should have been included
to assist the Government to deal with the impending banking crisis and its resolution. However,
judging from the Government's reactions to the BERP proposal (see Section 3.2), such conditions
and technical assistance may not have been acceptable to the Government at the time. Also, to
ensure the realisation of the various TA components, it would have been advantageous to secure
more up-front commitments for specified purposes from donors. Now some of the intended TA -
such as the pre-privatisation restructuring assistance to state owned enterprises, and part of the
desired changes to the legal framework - was not implemented or implemented only partly. This
did not, however, to any significant extent influence the implementation of the major components
nor the achievement of the objectives of the Project. Another improvement to the design could
have been to include a phase out of the subsidies of consulting services to enterprises and a
concomitant commercialisation and eventual, possible privatisation of Consulta. Now Consulta
was abruptly liquidated by decision of the Government, which meant it lost the possibility to
retrieve part or all of the expenses the Government injected into Consulta, and part of the
know-how build-up in Consulta was also lost.
In spite of the fact that the start-up of the project coincided with a severe banking crisis, the
assumptions about relevant externalfactors, such as demand for project output and project risks,
were reasonable and realistic.
On the basis of the above, the project is rated Highly Satisfactory in terms of design and QAE
criteria.
-5 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The key objectives were the strengthening of the banking system and the delivery of finance to
support the development of the private enterprise sector. Both these objectives were achieved
very satisfactorily.
In regard to the banking sector, the project firstly supported improvements in the legal and
regulatory framework. For example, changes to collateral and bankruptcy legislation were
initiated and realised. And BOL prudential regulations were tightened and brought more in line
with intemational and European Union rules. The urgency brought on by the banking crisis and
the conditions and technical assistance provided under the SAL helped accomplish this. Secondly,
BoL supervisory systems and skills were considerably enhanced through technical assistance
programs covering i.a. both on-site and off-site supervision. Thirdly, to qualify as Participating
Financial Intermediaries (PFI) for the Credit Line, banks underwent comprehensive and tailored
institutional development programs. Those which did all survived the banking crisis, and have
fared better than Lithuanian banks on the average, whether or not they eventually qualified as
PFIs. The World Bank-imposed application procedures to obtain sub-loans, clearly also had an
educational effect and caused PFIs - after initial complaints about difficult procedures - to
improve their credit and risk analysis procedures. Fourthly, the equity infusions from the
Swedish capital facility strengthened the capital base of qualifying banks directly and also
indirectly by attracting other investors, both strategic and financial, to invest in Lithuanian banks.
The selection of PFIs among the many new banks was not an easy task at the time. The fact that -
in hindsight - the right choices were made was, among other things, a result of the introduction of
some new eligibility criteria, focusing i.a. on connected lending and large exposures - in addition
to the capital adequacy requirement - and the introduction of a "certificate of compliance" by
BoL, the banking regulator.
The main criteria for considering the achievement of the objective of delivering finance to the
private enterprise sector as very satisfactory is the fact that the Credit Line has been fully utilised.
The Credit Line benefited a total of 40 companies, which were able to realise their investment
projects and get necessary working capital to increase sales and profits Technical assistance by
Consulta and Consulta-procured local and foreign consultants developed business plans and
educated a total of over 60 enterprises in various aspects of entrepreneurship and improved their
capacity to secure finance for investment projects.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1. Preparatory Development of Legal and RegulatorY Framework
The Bank did extensive preparatory work to initiate and, as much as possible, cause
- 6 -



implementation of needed changes and improvements to the legal and regulatory framework for
the banking sector. It initiated work on improvements to bankruptcy legislation and on developing
collateral legislation for both movables and immovables. It worked with Bank of Lithuania to
bring prudential regulations, in particular capital adequacy rules, in line with international
standards. The Bank required initiation of changes to tax laws to allow for tax deductibility of
loan loss provisions and the preparation of draft legislation for a deposit insurance system. And it
insisted on the introduction of audits of banks in accordance with International Standards of Audit
and on the preparation of the accounts of banks in accordance with International Accounting
Standards. Although few of these changes and improvements were implemented in the short run
and in time to prevent a banking crisis, all of them were eventually realised and contributed to a
better framework for and to improved operations of banks.
4.2.2. Credit Line Component
Credit Line:
The output performance indicators for the Credit Line were (i) disbursement progress, (ii)
sub-loan performance, and (iii) incremental revenues created by the sub-loans.
The Credit Line was fully committed by the end of 1999, well ahead of the closing date of June
30, 2000 for submitting sub-loan applications. Full disbursement was reached by March 2000.
This does not include the unused part of the Technical Assistance (Consulta) component, US$1
million, which the Bank and the Ministry of Finance in November 1999 agreed could be used for
the Credit Line component. Of this amount, US$ 800,000 was committed (but not yet disbursed)
by the end of 2000. After certain start-up difficulties, i.e. difficulties for the PFIs to learn and
adjust to the Bank's application procedures and requirements, commitments progressed well.
Early on, the Loan Agreement was amended to allow short-term working capital loans in
response to a shortage of working capital financing by local banks as a result of the banking crisis.
With the general reduction of interest rates in Lithuania, the rates charged to the PFIs on
sub-loans came to be above market rates, which slowed down commitments. At the same time,
also other medium to long-term sources of funds became available to the PFIs. The formula for
determining the interest rates charged to PFIs was subsequently changed and commitments picked
up again. In 1998, the effects of the Russian crisis reduced the demand for credit and the banks'
willingness to give credit, which again slowed down disbursements for almost a year.
The three PFIs used the Credit Line to make 35 loans to 32 different enterprises. In fact, the
number of enterprises was 40, since one sub-loan was made to the leasing subsidiary of a bank
and was distributed further in the form of leasing contracts with 8 enterprises. Most of the
recipient enterprises are doing well, and there has been virtually no defaults on the sub-loans,
which is extraordinary in view of the difficulties the enterprise sector in general encountered as a
result of the banking crisis followed by the economic crisis in Russia. At the request of the APEX
Unit, a survey of these enterprises was recently made by the PFIs. The survey showed that, with
only one exception, all of them achieved the objectives of the sub-projects. Sales increased by an
average 26% as a result of the projects financed from the Credit Line. Profits, on the average did
not increase. Only about 200 new jobs were created. However, in evaluating the employment
effects in particular one has to take into account, that in most cases the projects were part of
- 7 -



labour shedding restructurings or post-privatization restructurings, without which many of the
companies would have languished or not survived. The effects of the Russian crisis were severe
for the enterprise sector as a whole. Nevertheless, the recipients of sub-loans from the Credit Line
all weathered the crisis well and, as mentioned, did not default on their obligations to the PFIs.
The Swedish Equity:
A total of US$5 million was invested by Swedfund from the capital facility in three banks
(Vilniaus Bank, Hermis Bank, and Ukio Bank), one of which (Ukio) eventually did not qualify for
PFI status. Although the amount invested was half of what had been envisaged at appraisal, the
smaller amount achieved the main objective, to strengthen the capital base of participating banks.
In addition, Swedfund's example and the World Bank's presence and work to strengthen the banks
encouraged other investors, both strategic and financial, to invest, thereby reducing the need for
investment by Swedfund. For example, in 1996 Vilniaus Bank was able to attract several
institutional investors, partly directly and partly through a GDR issue in the Euromarket.
Similarly, Norwegian financial investors followed by other foreign investors and EBRD invested
in the shares of Hermis Bank. Later, in 1998, one of Sweden's largest banks SE-Banken bought a
controlling stake in Vilniaus Bank, and about a year later Hermis Bank was added to the group
and in the beginning of 2000 merged into Vilniaus Bank. The co-operation with Swedfund was
therefore a critical element in the success of the project. The Credit Line was disbursed without
relying on making the equity available in a fixed ratio with the World Bank funds as had been
originally envisaged.
4.2.3. Technical Assistant Component
Enterprise Sector TA (Consulta):
The output performance indicators established for Consulta were (i) number and types of
diagnostics and follow-up consulting activities, and (ii) impact on clients' operations.
Consulta performed over 60 diagnostic studies, designed to identify problem areas and
requirements for further assistance. With the help of domestic and international consultants
chosen by tenders arranged by Consulta, pre-feasibility and feasibility studies were performed for
about 40 companies. These companies represented a variety of manufacturing industries as well as
companies in the transport and service sectors. Eleven of the companies were state-owned, to
which assistance was given in line with the Project's ancillary objective of assisting the
Government in pre-privatisation restructuring. This assistance contributed to the later
privatisation of some of these companies, partly by foreign strategic investors and to
improvements in performance and avoidance of bankruptcy of some of the others. Of the private
enterprises assisted by Consulta, several were subsequently able to obtain bank financing for their
modemisation and expansion projects. Of these enterprises, three enterprises obtained finance
from the Credit Line and in two cases IFC approved a combination of debt and equity financing.
This seems like a small number in relation to the total number of enterprises aided. However,
although the exact number is not available, many enterprises received financing from other
sources as a result of Consulta's assistance. And part of the client enterprises were initially in need
of restructuring and rationalisation rather than financing.
- 8-



An innovative feature in the way Consulta operated was the use - at the suggestion of the Bank -
of tripartite agreements in case of studies performed by other consultants. Consulta's inclusion as
contract partner gave additional assurance to the other contract parties and additional incentives
to perform in accordance with the agreement.
Before Consulta ceased operations in June 1998, a survey was performed of Consulta's clients and
consultants participating in Consulta projects by Gallup-affiliated Baltic Surveys Ltd. Of
Consulta's clients 82 percent participated in the survey. It showed that on the average clients were
quite satisfied with the services of Consulta. The clients rated highly the qualifications and
professionalism of Consulta's staff, and almost as highly its services in connection with engaging
and supervising outside consultants. Of the clients 84 percent said Consulta's assistance had a very
positive or positive effect on their operations. Of those clients having employed also other
consultants, 87 percent said Consulta's services were better or equal to those of other consultants.
Almost 65% of the clients said they were likely to use the kind of consulting provided by Consulta
again and would be ready to pay market price for such services.
A bit over 30 consulting firms took part in tenders organised by Consulta. Of these, I I firms were
interviewed, 6 of which never won a bid. Most (9 of 11) firms said the tenders organised by
Consulta were fair and impartial. Most of them were also satisfied with Consulta's operations and
7 of them participated in more than one tender. The organisation of the tender process and the
quality control and final output were rated highest. The usefulness of Consulta's diagnostic studies
and support during the engagement were rated lower, but still got satisfactory scores. Those
firms, which did not win any bids, obviously, rated Consulta lower than those who did, but the
discrepancies were relatively small.
An indication of the usefulness of Consulta's services was that there was interaction between the
PFIs and Consulta. Although relatively few enterprises received financing from the Credit Line,
Consulta's assistance was instrumental in securing finance, from other sources as well as assisting
enterprises in restructuring their organisation and operations, and in understanding and realising
the prerequisites for obtaining finance, thus enabling them to obtain finance at a later stage. This
interaction between the two project components was envisaged in the design of the Project.
In 1997 the Government unexpectedly decided to unwind Consulta's operations in 1998. The
reasons given for this was that the Government did not want to continue to subsidise Consulta's
activities, and that Consulta's activities were no longer needed, because enough private consulting
companies capable of performing the same services had emerged. The Bank, which was consulted
only after the factual decision of closure had been made, was of the opinion, that Consulta's
services continued to be needed, that the subsidies could have gradually been removed (Consulta
had already started to get assignments on a fully commercial basis), and that Consulta could have
been transferred into private hands, thereby reducing the cost to the Government of the subsidies.
After discussions with the Government, the Bank, however, did not object to the closure. The
State Control Office, which is charged with looking after state property, did an audit of Consulta
after it had ceased operations. In its draft report the Office detailed several instances where
Consulta's operations had allegedly not been conducted in accordance with its bylaws or where it
had not fulfilled the tasks assigned to it. Subsequent inquiries by the Director of the State Control
-9-



with the previous Director of Consulta and with the Lithuanian Development Agency, which was
charged with the liquidation of Consulta, did not confirm the preliminary conclusions. The draft
report was eventually withdrawn and no final report was issued. Based on this, it appears
Consulta was closed largely for political reasons and as a result of rivalries between ministries.
This confirms the vulnerability of such institutions, even when relatively autonomous, and the
need for them to be fully transparent and accountable to reduce the risk of fraud and political
manipulations.
Despite the premature closure, Consulta, nevertheless, achieved its objectives of providing quality
pre- and post-privatization TA to enterprises and in fostering the development of a qualified local
consulting industry.
Consulta was the first government supported venture in Lithuania charging any part of the cost
for TA to the enterprises. Through the influence of this Bank-supported practice, EU Phare also
started channelling funds through Consulta on a partial cost recovery basis.
TA to Banks and Bank Supervision:
Due to the difficulties to capture performance by quantitative indicators in regard to the
achievement of these objectives, it was decided that qualitative assessments would be undertaken
in the context of Bank supervision missions.
Comprehensive institutional development was implemented in the form of twinning programs for
the two initial PFIs, Vilniaus Bank and Hermis Bank. For Siauliai Bank, which fulfilled the PFI
criteria only in 1998, a targeted development program was designed. The areas identified as most
in need of development, and therefore included in the program, were credit analysis and internal
audit. Ukio Bank and the two state banks, Savings Bank and Agricultural Bank also underwent
extensive twinning programs, which however did not result in PFI status, but helped these banks
develop and restructure their activities.
The institutional development programs for Vilniaus Bank and Siauliai Bank can be regarded as
having been very successful (for comments by twinning partners see Section 9 "Partner
Comments"). This assessment was made by the banks, the twinning partners and the World Bank.
Although the Bank Loan did not provide financing for these programs, the Bank was in both
cases involved in arranging the programs, through dialogue and interaction with the donor
agencies and the twinning partners. The program was a factor in Vilniaus Bank's development into
the clear market leader in the sector, and the bank at its own initiative and expense continued
co-operation with the twinning partner, ABN-Amro, long after the program had ended. Hermis
Bank's program was arranged by its major foreign shareholders at the time. The bank's operations
clearly improved and it became the number two bank among private banks. The impact of the
program, however, was not as pronounced as for the two other PFIs. This was evidently a factor
in the development that eventually lead to the merger into Vilniaus Bank. The twinning programs
for the state banks had less impact on the policies, procedures and organisation of these banks.
The lesser impact in case of the state banks may have been caused partly by lower absorption
capacity and also by the uncertainties in regard to the privatisation of these banks. In connection
with the discussions with the Government regarding the EFSAP, a comprehensive plan for the
- 10 -



restructuring, re-capitalisation and privatisation of the state banks - to be supported by the Bank
with a new loan - was discussed. This plan and the loan were for various reasons never realised.
Consequently the Bank was not involved in arranging twinning for the state banks.
A comprehensive TA program was implemented for the Bank Supervision Department of BOL.
The main part of the program was arranged and financed by USAID and EU Phare. As a result,
there was a substantial improvement in both procedures and practices of banking supervision. The
number of bank examiners and other supervisory staff was increased to a satisfactory level, and
their skills were considerably enhanced. On-site examinations are now undertaken at least once a
year in each bank. EU Phare has also made available funds for on-call audit assistance by audit
firms for special examinations; this program is still on-going. An early warning system for off-site
surveillance has been introduced and procedures and standards for examinations - both on-site
and off-site - have been developed and formalised.
Policies and procedures for liquidating insolvent banks were also developed, but in this regard,
procedures and division of responsibilities (between BOL the Deposit Insurance Agency and the
courts) still need to be clarified and developed. Nevertheless, the gradual revelation to senior
management of BOL of the importance of proper and professional supervision and the need for
prompt remedial action in case of non-compliance with prudential regulations by banks, lead to
the withdrawal of licenses of a large number of banks and the development and gradual
improvement of procedures for temporary administration by BOL appointed administrators to
quickly explore possibilities for restructuring and re-capitalising insolvent or illiquid banks. The
banking system was thus cleared of improperly functioning and corrupt banks. Alas this did not
happen in time to prevent the banking crisis, and to deal with it in an effective way, once it
happened.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economnic rate of return:
This measure is not calculated for this type of project because of the inherent difficulties of
estimating benefits. Sirmilarly, in the absence of an output measure, cost per unit of output cannot
be calculated. However, our judgement is, that the project was cost-effective.
The Credit Line helped finance capital investments and/or increases in working capital of 40
enterprises, which have done better than Lithuanian enterprises on the average. The projects
resulted in improved competitiveness, increased production and improved profitability for most of
the recipients. In some cases the enterprises would likely not have survived the shock-waves of
the Russian crisis, without these investments.
For sub-loans above US$500,000, a financial rate of return of at least 20 percent and an economic
rate of return of at least 15 percent was prescribed in the SAR. The economic rate of return
would be required only in cases where major price distortions in inputs or outputs were evident.
This ex ante requirement was included in sub-loan agreements. Neither the APEX Unit nor the
PFIs were required to monitor the actual achievements of these retums. As indicated in the client
survey mentioned above in Section 4.2.2., profits on the average did not increase as a result of the
projects financed partly from the credit line, and the required retums may not have been achieved.
- 11 -



The main reason for this was the disruption caused by the Russian financial crisis.
The TA component contributed to assessing development needs and to developing business plans
or investment plans for over 60 enterprises, which enabled some of them to obtain finance from
the Credit Line or from other sources. The TA also spawned a core of capable local consulting
firms. In most of these consulting projects, the local consultants worked in consortia with
international ones, which had a positive learning effect for both sides. More detailed output
indicators and data would have assisted the assessment of these benefits.
The APEX Unit turned cash-flow positive in early 1999 and is now repaying its debt to BoL for
administrative expenses incurred in the early years. Consulta had started to take on assignments at
commercial rates, when it was dismantled.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
As for 4.3
4.5 Institutional development impact:
As stated above, the project had a very considerable institutional development impact, both in the
banking sector and the enterprise sector. The banks, which participated as PFIs benefited from
capital injections by Swedfund and other investors, institutional development programs (which
benefited also other banks in addition to the PFIs), and application procedures to obtain
sub-loans. The banking sector and the Banking Supervision Department of BoL benefited from
the improvements in the legal and regulatory framework and - in the case of BoL - from the
technical assistance for the improvement of skills and procedures for the banking supervision. The
leading PFIs (Vilniaus Bank and Hermis Bank), indeed very quickly became the focus of foreign
investors and eventually were bought and merged by Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken (SEB), one
of the largest Swedish banks.
The plans to assist the Government in restructuring, re-capitalising and privatising the state banks,
and plans to give pre-privatisation assistance to enterprises in distress were not implemented (with
the exception of assistance given by Consulta to state enterprises), mainly due to the
Government's reluctance to address these issues in a way consistent with best international
practice, and to borrow for this purpose. However, the preparatory work on these plans sowed
the seeds for future actions by the Government. Although it took some time and the failure of one
state bank, the remaining ones were eventually restructured and re-capitalised and are now in the
process of being privatized.
IFC-procured consultants in 1998-99 helped the Government to analyse and diagnose a number of
enterprises with state ownership and/or large debts to the Government. These consultants are
currently assisting those enterprises, which were found to have potential, in preparing
restructuring plans and in finding finance to fund such restructuring.
- 12 -



Enterprises benefited from the financial assistance from the Credit Line, from applying lending
procedures required to obtain such assistance, and from the technical assistance given by Consulta
and the consultants procured by it. Consulta's use of consultants helped develop a core of capable
domestic consultants and consulting firms.
The APEX Unit added value as the Credit Line manager, educating local bankers in credit and
risk analysis procedures on the basis of the Bank's sub-loan application procedures and
requirements. The APEX Unit was later assigned the task of managing also the Private
Agriculture Development Project Loan, which had originally been assigned to a PIU in the
Ministry of Agriculture.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agencY:
Some components of the project were relatively difficult for the Government and the
implementing agencies (APEX Unit and Consulta) to control. The commitment and disbursement
of the credit line were initially held up by the PFIs' unfamiliarity with and resistance to the World
Bank's complex application, procurement and disbursement procedures. In 1998, the Russian
economic crisis slowed down utilisation of the credit line considerably. However, the APEX Unit
did a good job of marketing the credit line and the procedures to the banks, and these problems
should be seen in the context of the full and timely disbursement of the credit line.
The Government and the APEX Unit did not have control over equity investments by Swedfund.
The original intention was that equity investments would be tied to disbursements under the
credit line. However, the practicality of this link was questionable. Swedfund had other objectives
in addition to supporting the bank credit line and the administrative burden of managing such link
was excessive. As it turned out, this tie was not needed. The credit line disbursed anyway, partly
as a result of the general improvement in the capital adequacy resulting from the investments by
Swedfund and others.
The amount of grant funds for TA by various donors was also difficult to control. The amounts
actually contributed did not reach planned amounts. However, the TA provided achieved the
intended objectives, with the exception of the pre-privatisation assistance referred to above.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government entity responsible for the Project was the Ministry of Finance (MoF). Through a
Fiscal Agency Agreement concluded with BoL the latter was authorised to perform most
transactions under the credit line through an APEX Unit established as a special unit in the BoL.
The BoL established the APEX Unit and supervised its operations. The APEX Unit, in turn, was
responsible for concluding subsidiary loan agreements with the PFIs, and for authorising
subsidiary loan disbursements to the PFIs through the project accounts. These components were
very effectively executed. The APEX Unit, with the initial help of Swedish technical assistance,
- 13 -



has done an excellent job and as a result has been entrusted with additional tasks. The BoL
afforded APEX an adequate measure of independence and ensured, together with the Bank, the
effective operation of the unit.
The Fiscal Agency Agreement had to be amended several times to accommodate necessary
changes in regard to the use of the Credit Line. The most significant ones were to allow the use of
the Credit Line for working capital loans, to reduce the spread to get the interest charged to the
PFIs in line with market rates, and the extension of the closing date for submitting sub-loan
applications to enable the use of the unused portion of the Consulta component under the Credit
Line. These changes were for the most part quickly and effectively executed. In case of reducing
the spread to the PFIs, there were initially some fears within the Government that such a
reduction would unduly benefit the PFIs instead of the end-users. This delayed the said
amendment and slowed down utilisation of the Credit Line for some time.
The MoF controlled disbursements to Consulta and to consultants engaged by Consulta. This
component was also effectively executed.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implemnenting agency control:
See 5.2.
5.4 Costs and financing:
See section 3.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The main indicator of the sustainability of the Project is that it contributed to making further Bank
lending for the enterprise and finance sectors unnecessary. The private sector, for some time with
the support of institutions such as IFC and EBRD, is taking over financial and other assistance in
these sectors.
The improved legal framework and banking supervision, the use of the Credit Line, the
institutional development programs, and the capital injections by Swedfund helped in an important
way to develop the PFIs in particular and the banking sector in general to a point, where there is
little doubt, that the benefits will be sustained. The biggest PFI now has a strong strategic
majority owner and has improved its lending procedures and practices to be close to Western
standards. Although the Lithuanian banking sector today is a bit lopsided, with Vilniaus Bank far
ahead of the others, the impeding privatisation of the two state banks and the growth of foreign
owned banks and bank branches is likely to restore the balance in the next few years. There is
much less systemic risk in the banking sector now compared to the crisis situation when the
Project started.
- 14 -



The sustainability of the Project in regard to the enterprises also appears ensured. The realisation
of investment projects with the help of sub-loans from the Credit Line and the educating effect of
having gone through the application process for these loans, have demonstrably helped the
recipient enterprises fare better than enterprises in general. And the technical assistance by
Consulta, both to sub-loan recipients and other enterprises, has also been sustained, as evidenced
by the positive feed-back from the survey and the willingness of recipients to continue to use the
advice of consultants, even at market rates. Most of the consultants, which benefited from taking
part in Consulta procured projects, enhanced their skills and, to our knowledge, continue to
operate successfully.
The agencies created to support and administer the project were not necessarily meant to be
sustained beyond the closing of the project. However, the successful operations of the APEX Unit
resulted in another Bank project being assigned to it. And the BoL, which originally was reluctant
to extend the life of the unit beyond what was necessary for the Project, has begun to view the
unit as possibly being useful for other assignments as well. The Government, with the reluctant
agreement of the Bank, chose to liquidate Consulta, when it was considered that subsidised
consulting services were no longer desired nor needed. An option could have been to
commercialise Consulta's activities and eventually privatise it.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As mentioned, the Government and the Bank have together concluded, that there is no need for
further Bank lending for the finance and enterprise sectors. This has been achieved mainly thanks
to the success of the Government's structural reforms and economic policies. The EFSAP Project
contributed to this development. As noted in the current CAS, the need in the next few years for
the Bank's assistance to the finance and enterprise sectors is mainly for non-lending assistance.
Such assistance is, for example, being planned in connection with the implementation of the
conditions for the second Structural Adjustment Loan. The reform package included in these
conditions, which relate to private sector development, are to a large extent a continuation of the
reforms relating to the legal and regulatory framework for the banking and enterprise sectors
included in the EFSAP Project. The SAL included conditions for example to ensure the orderly
completion of the privatisation of the state banks, to increase the effectiveness of enterprise
bankruptcy and restructuring mechanisms, and to remove remaining barriers to new business
development. The realisation of these reforms and actions will further support the transition to
self sufficiency of the banking and enterprise sectors. To the extent called for, IFC, EBRD and
other IFIs, will continue to make financial support available to these sectors.
The rating for sustainability is HS.
- 15 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Identification:
Considerable work was done by the Bank already during the identification stage to make sure that
the project was in line with the Government's development strategy and priorities. During the
identification mission, the various aspects were discussed thoroughly with the various ministries
involved. The Project was conceived following a study of Lithuania's financial and enterprise
sectors finalised in March 1993. The study demonstrated that: (i) there was a need for further
policy reform in these sectors and that the fortunes of the sectors were intimately linked; (ii)
private and privatized enterprises needed reasonably-priced medium-term finance and technical
assistance to prepare and implement critically needed restructuring plans; and (iii) the commercial
banks lacked resources of the right maturity as well as the required appraisal skills to prudently
make loans of this type. With its strong policy action requirements and blend of credit and
technical assistance, the Project was designed to address all these issues.
Project Preparation:
The project preparation stage involved several missions with extensive staff inputs. The expertise
of the Bank's staff and consultants and the technical assistance given by them during the
preparation stage was widely recognised and appreciated by the local counterparts. Numerous
complementary studies and interviews with banks, enterprises, the BoL and government officials
were undertaken to identify the needed reforms of the legal and regulatory framework and the
appropriate design of the Loan. Considerable technical assistance was included in the design to
solve the identified problems and needs. A lot of attention was devoted to the design of the
project management structure, which proved to be very satisfactory. Environmental safeguards
were addressed adequately through mechanisms put in place for environmental screening and
certification of sub-projects.
Appraisal:
The appraisal of the project was also carried out with a well diversified team of Bank staff and
consultants and good working links with both the Government, BoL and participating donor
agencies. The close co-operation with government officials at various levels and the considerable
interest in the project, being one of the first investment projects in Lithuania, ensured Government
ownership in all areas included in the final design. Implementing agency capability was appraised
through analyses of the banks and capacity needs of the Government. This lead to the
establishment of the APEX Unit, the choice of the recently established Consulta as the
administrator of the TA component, and to including extensive institutional development
assistance for banks in the Project. The existence of a sufficient enterprise pipeline was confirmed
by carrying out studies complementing the original study of the enterprise sector mentioned
above, and by taking into account expected availability of foreign credits from alternative sources
during the period.
The key macro and micro-economic risks potentially affecting the project were addressed in the
SAR. The report did, however, underestimate the systemic risks in the banking sector, which
- 16 -



caused a sector-wide crisis in late 1995 due to the failure of a couple of the largest banks.
Although this, in the end, did not endanger the Government's receivables from participating banks,
a more thorough study and account of these risks would have strengthened this part of the
appraisal report. However, given the Government's inability/reluctance to address these issues,
which became evident in the discussion of the BERP and the implementation of the SAL, it is
unlikely that such study would have resulted in any material changes in the project. More likely,
highlighting these issues might have delayed the approval of this successful project.
Throughout the preparatory and appraisal stages, the Bank worked closely together with IMF. At
the time of project preparation, IMF approved an Extended Fund Facility (EFF) Program for
Lithuania. This program was designed in close co-operation with the Bank and followed by a
Bank Structural Adjustment program focused on policies to address the quasi-fiscal budget deficit
and the weaknesses in the financial system in particular. The policy actions that were prerequisites
for the Project and the reform measures in IMF's EFF Program closely matched each other and
were mutually reinforcing. However, as many of these policy measures were only implemented
late in the project cycle and did not prevent a severe and prolonged banking crisis, the
contribution of the EFF and the SAL to the success of the project should not be overestimated.
The Bank also had close and fruitful contacts with multilateral and bilateral donors, the main ones
being EU-Phare, USAID, and the Government of Sweden.
The Project Implementation Plan included in the SAR set out separate time lines for the Credit
Line and the TA component of the Loan, and the SAR also included an estimated disbursement
schedule for the two components together. Performance indicators were established in the
pre-effectiveness stage, separately for the APEX Unit, Consulta and for the TA to banks and bank
supervision. In retrospect, a more comprehensive project implementation plan, including also
components financed by other donors, would have been useful. The performance indicators,
although not formally required at the time of the SAR were meaningful and adequate. It would
have been useful to prepare a detailed and time-bound matrix of the performance indicators and
an obligation for the implementing agencies to monitor the attainment of these indicators.
In designing the Project, the lessons learnt from previous projects of a similar kind, especially the
need to focus on institution building and strong management structures for both components,
were adequately taken into account.
7.2 Stupervision:
The initial supervision of the project was relatively intense with three missions between appraisal
and effectiveness. Subsequently two missions per year took place, which was the statutory
requirement, and progress was closely monitored from headquarters, greatly assisted by
responsive specialists in the APEX Unit and Consulta. At the end of 1997, supervision
responsibility for the Project was transferred to the field, when the Bank's Bank and Enterprise
Specialist based in Vilnius took over as TTL.
- 17 -



Certain changes to project terms were made during the supervision stage to ensure achievement
of the objectives of the project and to speed up disbursements under the Credit Line. The Loan
Agreement was amended to allow for short-term working capital loans, which were in high
demand, particularly from small and medium sized enterprises. The spread charged to the PFIs for
sub-loans was lowered to bring the rates for the Credit Line in line with market rates. There was
delay in realising the lower spreads due to hesitance on the part of the MoF to make reductions in
what the ministry had come to view as a source of income. After the closing of Consulta's
operations, the Loan Agreement was amended to allow for the use of the remaining funds (US$ 1
million) for this component to be used under the Credit Line.
The rating for the achievement of development objectives was lowered from HS to S in 1997 as at
that time it was considered that the project's benefits had not reached all banks in Lithuania with
potential for qualifying as PFIs. This objective was achieved later in the Project, as were the other
established output performance indicators. The final rating for achievement of development
objectives is therefore HS.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
On the basis of the above evaluation, the Bank's lending and supervision performance is rated
highly satisfactory - HS.
Borrower
7.4 Preparationi:
The Government showed a clear interest and commitment to get the project realised. The
Government understood the importance of the need for medium-term financing for the enterprise
sector on market terms, for institution-building technical assistance, for avoiding political
interference in credit decisions, and for avoiding subsidies except in the case of initial donor and
Government financed technical support. The Government worked closely with the Bank to
finalise project design and documentation. The BoL supported the creation of the APEX Unit
under its auspices. Despite some delay in the Loan becoming effective, the Government
satisfactorily and on time fulfilled its commitrnents during appraisal and negotiations. As noted
earlier, the Government was not prepared to handle the systemic risk of the banking system in an
adequate manner. Thanks to the safeguards and the strong institution building component of the
project, it was, however, able to weather the effects of a severe banking crisis.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Implementation was satisfactory and continuous despite Government changes. Macro-economic
management risks, identified in the project appraisal, indeed materialised in the form of severe
disruptions to the financial system and large (quasi-fiscal) budget deficits. However, the robust
design of the project prevented these risks from undermining the project causing only a delay in
disbursements, which was recovered in later years. It is also important to note, that throughout
- 18 -



the period price and exchange rate stability was maintained, which is important to the
development of term lending. The reform package for the banking sector agreed upon between
the Government and the Bank as part of the conditions for the first Structural Adjustment Loan,
when finally implemented after the 1995-96 banking crisis, contributed to post-crisis stability in
the banking sector and the resumption of term lending to the enterprise sector, which had been
disrupted during the crisis. The BoL provided all needed financial and other support to the APEX
Unit, and afforded it the required measure of autonomy. In regard to certain specific aspects -
namely the premature closure of Consulta (see Section 4.2.3) and some delays in decision making
regarding restructuring of loan terms (see Section 7.2) - implementation performance was less
satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of both the APEX Unit and Consulta was highly satisfactory. Accusations of
wrongdoings in Consulta were never substantiated (see Section 4.2.3), and the Bank's own
supervision of Consulta never uncovered such practices. The APEX Unit was later assigned the
administration of another Bank Loan (the PADP Loan). Consulta had started taking on
assignments on a fully commercial basis, when the decision was made to close it down. A PMU
specifically for this project was not created, since these units were able to perform most of the
tasks required under the Loan. Interim reports, accounts and audits were provided on time and in
satisfactory form.
7.7 Overall Borrower peformance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory - S -, despite discontinuities in
Government. All incoming Governments and authorities were fully co-operative in supporting the
ongoing project.
8. Lessons Learned
The Project as a whole is rated highly satisfactory - HS. This is a result of good and creative
design able to withstand financial and macro-economic turbulence, successful execution, and
some meaningful corrections of impediments to execution during implementation. All of this
contributed to full disbursement of both components. The overall success notwithstanding, some
lessons - both positive and negative - can be learned, some on details in design and
implementation, some on a more general level.
In addition to creative and meaningful design of the project and of loan terms, in-built flexibility of
design to deal with inevitable changes in circumstances and environment is an important feature.
For example, the alignment of the interest spreads to market rates should not only be made
possible but be made more or less automatic in this type of project. This would have speeded up
the implementation of such changes and thus speeded up disbursements in regard to this project.
Another example is the anticipation in the design of a gradual phase-out of governmental an
- 19 -



international subsidies of various elements of the project. In regard to this project, such a feature
might have ensured the continuity and possibly a later privatisation of Consulta. Flexibility on the
part of the Bank to admit mistakes made in the design and excessive bureaucracy in regard to
implementation is also essential. In most cases, such mistakes and bureaucracy were expeditiously
corrected or removed in this project.
The need to put in place good procedures, good management and good management structures in
complex institution-building projects cannot be overemphasised. In this project, this was achieved
thanks to considerable donor funding of consultants combined with good local staff for project
implementation and close and careful supervision by the Bank. Independence of the implementing
units from excessive governmental involvement and bureaucracy is equally important. The project
has demonstrated, that to a point a careful institutional design can compensate for deficiencies in
the policy and macro-economic environment. Put differently, (long-term) macro-economic and
policy reform (implemented through IMF and Bank adjustment programs) is a good support to
implement project objectives but should not be relied on.
There is little doubt that without comprehensive focused and well organised technical assistance
for all components of this type of project as well as for the necessary improvements of the legal
and regulatory framework, the project would not have succeeded as well as it did or might even
have failed to reach its objectives. An important element in this regard is good and close
co-operation between the Bank, other donors and the Government, both in regard to design and
implementation of technical assistance.
On a more general level, the timing of an investment operation to assist the enterprise and
financial sectors is key. A sector adjustment operation might be more feasible in an environment
where the legal and institutional framework are not sufficiently developed although this project
demonstrates that success is possible in a less than perfect environment. In a relatively developed
and competitive financial market an intervention by the Bank may be too late. The window of
opportunity has to be carefully judged. The window for such a project clearly existed in Lithuania,
as it did in Latvia. In Estonia, the intervention from the Bank apparently came a bit too late.
One obvious difficulty of a general nature is how to ensure continued Government support for
necessary reforms of the legal and regulatory framework; particularly in an environment with
frequently changing governments. There is, of course no patent solution for that. The main lesson
is to ensure, that as much as possible of necessary reforms are realised up front. However, if this
is not the case, the project should be designed to achieve limited objectives even without
broad-based reform.
One feature of World Bank loans for this type of projects is that long-term loans are used to solve
mostly medium-term problems. The bullet repayment for the credit line was introduced to address
that problem. However, for cases where the sector problem is solved before the maturity of the
credit line, the challenge for the Bank is to develop ways - probably through some form of loan
securitisation - to enable re-deployment (or alternatively prepayment) by governments of such
loans for emerging new developmental needs.
- 20 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower's Comments
Enterprise and Financial Sector Assistance Project,
Part A and B, LT 3866-0-1-2
Contents
1. Project Objectives and Design                                          24
2. Project implementation                                                 25
2.1. Project, Part A                                                    25
2.1.1. Co-ordination and management                                 25
2.1.2. Participating Financial Intermediaries                       26
2.1.3. Sub-Projects                                                 28
2.1.4. Disbursements                                                29
2.1.5. Procurement                                                  29
2.2. Project, Part B                                                    30
2.2.1. Co-ordination and management                                 30
2.2.2. Operations                                                   31
3. Assessment of Outcome                                                   32
3.1. Financial Sector                                                   32
3.2. Enterprise Sector                                                  32
3.3. Consulta                                                           33
Annexes (Table No 2 and Charts No 1-8)
- 21 -



1. Project Objectives and Design
The Loan Agreement between the Republic of Lithuania (Borrower) and the World Bank (the
Bank) for the equivalent of about US$ 25 million Loan comprising two Single Currency Loan
tranches for US and DM respectively to help finance an Enterprise and Financial Sector
Assistance Project (EFSAP) was signed on July 19, 1995.
While the privatisation at that time had progressed very rapidly in Lithuania, in the financial
sector the reform process has been proceeding more slowly. There was a demand to speed up
the reform in the enterprise and financial sectors in Lithuania. Private enterprises needed
reasonably-priced long-term finance and technical assistance to prepare and implement new
business plans. Commercial banks had a lack of financial resources of the right maturity as
well as the required appraisal skills to prudently make loans of this type. The principal
objective of EFSAP was to support and help accelerate the reform in the enterprise and
financial sectors through strengthening the banking system and to develop private companies
by providing financial resources and technical assistance for this purpose. Due to the above
mentioned purposes, the Project was made up of two components:
1. Credit Line component (US$ 20.5 million equivalent), to be channelled through qualified
participating banks to private enterprises (Part A of EFSAP- Loan No 3866-0-2) to
provide recourses for investment finance and associated permanent working capital to
private and privatized enterprises; and
2. Technical assistance component (US$ 4.5 million equivalent) to support state-owned
enterprises  in  development  of  specific  plans  for  privatisation  through
reorganisation/liquidation and to assist private and privatized enterprises in business
planing and preparation of viable restructuring (Part B of EFSAP - Loan No 3866-1).
The Credit Line component comprised Single Currency Loan with tranches of US$ seventeen
million five hundred thousand dollars ($17.5 - Loan No 3866-0) and four million five hundred
thousand Deutsche Mark (DM 4.5 - Loan No 3866-2).
Part A of EFSAP was carried out by "Apex" the Apex Unit established under paragraph 1 (c)
of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
Part B of EFSAP was carried out by a non-profit Enterprise Restructuring and Consulting
Agency "Consulta" established under paragraph 2 (c) of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
- 22 -



2. Project implementation
2.1. Part A of the Project
2.1.1. Co-ordination and management
To co-ordinate and monitor the overall aspects of the execution of the Part A of EFSAP, the
Apex Unit was established as a separate division within International Relations Department of
the Bank of Lithuania BoL The advances from the BoL were used to finance the direct
operational cost of the Unit. The Apex Unit had its own budget and accounting system,
although the accounts were consolidated by the BoL The earnings of the Unit depended on the
interest margin paid by the Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) for the Credit Line funds.
The Apex Unit is a fiscal agent operating on behalf of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic
of Lithuania MoF in accordance with the terms of Fiscal Agency Agreement entered into by
the Ministry of Finance and the BoL on November 30, 1995. Its main functions were:
-      xReviewing applications from potential PFIs, monitoring eligible PFIs and ensuring their
compliance with qualification criteria under EFSAP Loan Agreement;
-     Reviewing sub-loan applications and ensuring their compliance with qualification
criteria under EFSAP Loan Agreement and the Bank's guidelines for procurement and policy
on environmental assessment;
-     Opening Special Accounts in USD and DEM in a qualified foreign bank for the
management of EFSAP funds (on December 15, 1995 the Special Accounts were opened with
Bankers Trust Company, Frankfurt, subsequently on March 21, 2000 due to the merger of
Bankers Trust Company and Deutsche Bank AG, the Special Accounts were transferred to
Deutsche Bank AG, Frankfurt);
-     Disbursing funds from the Special Accounts to PFIs for financing eligible sub-projects;
-     Maintaining all EFSAP Part A and the Apex Unit's accounting records; arranging for
the annual audits of EFSAP Part A Financial Statements, the Special Accounts, and the Apex
Unit's Financial Statements (From 1995 to 1999 annual audits were provided by international
audit firm Price Waterhouse Coopers);
-     Preparing EFSAP Part A implementation reports to the Bank, the MoF and the BoL.
On May 16, 1995 a Danish Grant Agreement between the Apex Unit and Danish Agency for
Development of Trade and Industry for USD 50,000 was signed. The Danish Grant was used
for starting-up the Apex Unit activities, i.e. for purchasing computer equipment, furniture and
automobile. On October 15, 1996 an international audit firm Coopers & Lybrand audited the
Danish Grant. The audit report was satisfactory.
On October 12, 1995 a Swedish Grant Agreement between the Republic of Lithuania and the
Bank as an Administrator of Grant Funds provided by Sweden in the amount of US $202,600
was signed. The funds were available for the Apex Unit and for Consulta. The Apex Unit
utilised these funds for consultant and auditors' services. On June 28, 2000 the Swedish Grant
was audited by Price Waterhouse Coopers.
- 23 -



2.1.2. Participating Financial Intermediaries
Participating Financial Intermediaries are banks established and operating under the laws of
the Republic of Lithuania and the applicable rules of the BoL The banks seeking to participate
in EFSAP (Part A) needed:
-     to meet a set of requirements provided in EFSAP Loan Agreement;
-     to be approved by the Bank for participating in the project; and
-     to sign a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the BoL.
The Apex Unit carried out the selection of potential PFIs. During the process of selection it
evaluated the adherence of the potential PFI to the requirements provided in the EFSAP Loan
Agreement. The selected bank had:
a)   to present an acceptable audit report prepared in accordance with Intemational
Accounting Standards, covering one full year of operations and incorporating a portfolio
review;
b)   to be in existence and to produce operating results for a minimum of two years;
c)   to be engaged or agreed to engage in an institutional development program, designed
in conjunction with the Bank;
d)   to provide a Certificate of Compliance from the BoL's Banking Supervision
Department;
e)   to comply with the Bank's requirements for the total assets, equity capital, capital
adequacy ratio, large exposure, and connected lending ratio.
PFIs were monitored periodically taking into consideration the following issues:
a)    overall policy and performance;
b)    strategic plans and their execution;
c)   lending policies and procedures;
d)   risk (interest rate risk, currency position, etc.);
e)    management policies and procedures;
f)   intemal controls and audit procedures.
Under the Apex Unit recommendations the Bank approved three commercial banks for
participation in EFSAP. Subsequently, JSC Vilniaus bankas, JSC bankas Hermis, and JSC
Siauliu bankas that entered into the Subsidiary Loan Agreements with the Apex Unit. After
the merger of JSC bankas Hermis by JSC Vilniaus bankas on February 4, 2000, two Piffles
remained active under EFSAP. JSC Vilniaus bankas is the largest and the most profitable bank
in Lithuania and JSC Siauliu bankas is a regional bank, maintaining strong market position in
the Northern Lithuania.
Table 1 indicates that SC Vilniaus bankas was the most active PFI utilising EFSAP Part funds.
JSC Vilniaus bankas signed the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the BoL on December 5,
1995. The Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the BoL and AB Siauliu bankas was signed on
March 30, 1998.
- 24 -



Table 1
PFI       Number of  Sub-loans in  Sub-loans                         Sub-loans in
sub-loans    USD         in USD                           DEM
Approved   Approved                  Disbursed            Approved              Disbursed
JSC              21    11.446.369        65%    11.374.066    65%      4.500.000   100%   4.500.000   100%
Vilniaus
bankas
JSC               9      4.278.631       25%     4.278.631    25%             0      0%           0     0%
bankas
Henrmis
JSC               4      1.775.000       10%      1.775.000    10%            0      0%           0     0%
Siauliu
bankas
TOTAL:           34    17.500.000       100%    17.427.697   100%      4.500.000   100%    4.500.000   100%
PFI           Number of       Consolidated*
sub-loans      sub-loans
Approved       Approved                  Disbursed
JSC Vilniaus             21         13.482.568    69%        13.410.265   69%
bankas
JSC bankas                9         4.278.631    22%         4.278.631   22%
Hernis
JSC Siauliu               4          1.775.000    9%          1.775.000  9%
bankas
TOTAL:                   34         19.536.199   100%        19.463.896   100%
* USD/DEM as of 10/01/2000
1/2.21
- 25 -



Other six banks - namely, JSC Lietuvos zemes ukio bankas, JSC Ukio bankas, JSC bankas
Snoras, JSC Litimpeks bankas, JSC Vakaru bankas and JSC Tauro bankas - were reviewed
for possible PFI status during 1996-1998. They did not qualify for participation in the EFSAP
due to their non-compliance with the eligibility criteria. As of the reporting date, three of these
banks, i.e. - JSC Litimpeks bankas, JSC Vakaru bankas and JSC Tauro bankas - have ceased
their operations.
In order to monitor the PFIs financial situation the Apex Unit developed and implemented a
financial analysis system. Monitoring was based on the analysis of monthly financial statements
presented by the PFIs to the BoL
The participation in the EFSAP was useful for the PFIs, for the following reasons:
a)    all the PFIs were engaged in Institutional Development Programs that enabled them to
improve their strategic planning, lending management, assets quality management, internal
auditing procedures;
b)    all the PFIs with assistance by the Apex Unit, developed and implemented advanced
analysis methods for sub-projects evaluation;
c)    the PFIs acquired a possibility to borrow long-term resources under favourable terms,
that allowed them to increase their long-term lending;
d)    EFSAP Credit Line resources made a positive impact on the PFIs liquidity, especially
after the financial crises in 1996 and 1998.
2.1.3. Sub-Projects
As it can be observed from Table 2, 32 sub-projects were approved for financing from the
EFSAP Credit Line (34 sub-loans approved; 32 sub-projects financed; 2 sub-borrowers
requested an increase of the existing sub-loans ). JSC Vilniaus bankas presented 20
sub-projects, JSC bankas Hermis 8 sub-projects, and JSC Siauliu bankas 4 sub-projects.
Thirteen sub-projects financed were for investment purposes, 1 1 for working capital
sub-projects, and the remaining 8 for combined investment and working capital sub-projects
(see Chart 1). Expressed in percentage the amounts of the sub-loans were disbursed as
follows: 42.0 per cent for financing of working capital needs, 36.3 per cent for investment
needs, and 21.7 per cent for financing under combined purpose (investment and working
capital) (see Chart 2).
Many sectors of economy were financed from EFSAP Credit Line. As it can be seen from
Charts 3 and 4, the largest sector financed was the services sector. Thirty percent (11 sub
projects) of the total amount of the Credit Line were disbursed to services providers. Furniture
and equipment sectors received 22 per cent of the total amount of sub-loans approved (4
sub-projects). Fifteen percent (5 sub-projects) were approved in the food industry. Textiles
and paper production sectors amounted to 15 per cent (5 sub-projects) of the total
sub-projects approved. Chemical industry 10 percent (3 sub-projects), heavy industry 3
percent (1 sub-project), pharmacy and medicine 3 percent (2 sub-projects), and other 2 per
cent (1 sub-project).
- 26 -



The maturity of the majority of the sub-loans was between 4 and 5 years. The maximum
maturity was 7 years (JSC "Neringa Hotel" sub-project) and the average weighted maturity
was 3,8 years (see Chart 5).
For reviewing and evaluating free and Non-free limit sub-loans presented by the PFIs the Apex
Unit developed and implemented a project evaluation system, which provides financial and
non-financial analysis of the sub-borrowers.
In the beginning of the EFSAP implementation the Credit Line was very attractive both for the
PFIs and the sub-borrowers. However, in the end of 1997 the Project implementation slowed
down. One reason for this was a too high interest rate paid by the PFI's for the Credit Line
resources. In order to ensure the competition of the Credit Line it was necessary to reduce
Borrower's interest margin. Another reason was the cumbersome and labour consuming
sub-project presentation procedures, which the PFIs had to follow. The Project parties (the
Bank, the Apex Unit, the MoF the PFIs) streamlined their efforts and in the first quarter of
1998 the above mentioned problems were solved. The interest rate on the Credit Line was
reduced and the requirements for procedures and documentation of free-limit sub-loans were
simplified. The positive decisions and the changed situation in global financial markets, due to
economic crises in Asia and Russia, made Credit Line utilisation faster, especially in the
second half of 1998.
2.1.4. Disbursements
The Closing Date for submitting proposals by the participating financial intermediaries in the
EFSAP Loan Agreement was initially set for June 30, 2000 and the Closing Date for the Loan
is June 30, 2001. Currently the funds of the Credit Line are almost fully disbursed (see Chart
6) except US$ 1,003,756.00, which was moved from the Technical Assistance component to
the Credit Line. In order to utilise the unused amount of Part B of the Project, on May 16,
2000 the MoF requested the Bank for a six months extension of the current Closing Date for
submitting proposals. The Closing Date was extended till December 31, 2000 by amending the
Loan Agreement on June 30, 2000. The Amendment became effective on July 10, 2000.
2.1.5. Procurement
The Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Loan Agreement
No. 3866-0-2 provide for procurement procedures. The Apex Unit developed and
implemented a computerised system which facilitated the reviewing of procurement
documents under sub-projects. During the EFSAP implementation the threshold for the
International Competitive Bidding has not been exceeded, therefore the procedures of the
Local Competitive Bidding and International Shopping were used.
- 27 -



2.2. Project, Part B
2.2.1. Co-ordination and management
The Enterprise Restructuring and Consulting Agency Consulta ("Consulta") was established
pursuant to the Resolution of the Government of Lithuania No. 963 of December 21, 1993 as
a non-profit, limited liability organisation supervised by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. In
accordance with the Government Resolutions No. 55 and 58 of January 27, 1997, and the
Law on Public Companies of the Republic of Lithuania, in 1997 Consulta was reorganised.
The supervision of Consulta was transferred to the Ministry of European Affairs.
Consulta was established as a result of the co-operation between the Government and the
Phare programme of the European Union. It started operating in 1994. The purpose of
Consulta was to provide partnership assistance to Lithuanian enterprises to help them to
operate successfully in a market economy. This assistance was provided in the form of
diagnostic studies performed by Consulta and Western consultants, and in the form of
pre-feasibility and feasibility studies made by domestic and international consultants selected
on the basis of tenders arranged by Consulta.
In accordance with the terms of paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, the
Ministry of Finance and Consulta on November 30, 1995 signed the Implementation
Agreement. This Agreement established Consulta as the administrator and intermediary for the
US $4.5 million Technical assistance component (Part B) of the Loan, to be used for both
pre-privatisation assistance to state owned enterprises and post-privatization assistance to
private enterprises, and for operational support and provision of office equipment to Consulta.
Consulta received considerable technical support financed and provided by EU-Phare and by
other donors. The establishment and start-up of Consulta was aided by a Western consortium
led by the British firm WS Atkins under the EU-Phare funded program. Further development
of Consulta's activities and procedures was carried out with the help of a consortium headed
by Cast srl from Italy. With financing from Swedish International Development Agency
(SIDA), Swedish Ohrlings Coopers & Lybrands assisted Consulta in developing its accounting
system and procedures, and in developing its management information systems, as well as
provided training to its accounting personnel.
The management bodies of Consulta were: the General Meeting (at first the founding ministry
- the Ministry of Industry and Trade and, subsequently the Ministry of European Affairs), the
Supervisory Board, and the Director General. The Supervisory Board consisted of
representatives of several ministries, the Confederation of Manufacturers and the Association
of Entrepreneurs. The Director General was assisted by a staff. In respect to the use of Loan
proceeds Consulta was subjected to detailed reporting on its activities as well as on individual
projects to the World Bank.
Consulta services were partly financed out of the proceeds of the EFSAP Loan. The
diagnostic studies perforrned by Consulta itself were provided free of charge. However, for
technical assistance to private enterprises, such enterprises had to pay 20% of the costs of
- 28 -



foreign consultants and 40% of the costs of local consultants. Pre-privatisation assistance to
enterprises with more than 50% state ownership was provided free of charge.
Contracts for technical assistance by foreign and domestic consultants were awarded on the
basis of tenders. Consulta prepared a short list of consultants after consultation with the client.
A margin of preference was granted to domestic consultants in accordance with World Bank
Procurement guidelines.
2.2.2. Operations
Consulta functioned as the implementation agency for the technical assistance under EFSAP
from the beginning of 1996 until June 1998. However, from the beginning of 1998 it did not
take on new assignments, since the decision had been made by the Ministry of European
Affairs, that Consulta would cease operations by mid-1998, as soon as all outstanding
consulting commitments were fulfilled.
To get a feeling for the client base, Consulta started by preparing a list of some 200 potential
clients. Enterprises were made aware of Consulta's activities in various ways including active
contacts to enterprises by Consulta staff. A total of more than 170 enterprises applied for
assistance from Consulta and about 140 of these were found eligible for Consulta assistance.
During the period of active operations of about two years, Consulta completed a total of 62
diagnostic studies designed to identify potential problem areas, and requirements for further
assistance. Of these studies 11 were performed for state-owned enterprises at the request of
the founding ministries.
The diagnostic studies lead to further technical assistance to 36 enterprises, that is, in more
than half of the cases. Such assistance took the form of pre-feasibility studies, feasibility
studies, and reorganisation studies, studies of organisation and strategy, and assistance with
obtaining ISO 9000 certificates. The assistance was performed by independent foreign and
Lithuanian consultants, chosen by Consulta on the basis of tenders. For the implementation of
these studies, tri-partite contracts were signed between Consulta, the client and the consultants
performing the studies.
There was close co-operation between Consulta and the Participating Financial Institutions
(PFIs), and between Consulta and the APEX Unit, the implementing agency for the credit line.
The PFIs and APEX were kept informed of Consulta's activities and client enterprises were
informed about the possibilities for financing from the PFIs out of the credit line.
Technical assistance was performed to enterprises from a large variety of sectors. The main
recipients of both diagnostic and other assistance were the food industry, light industries,
construction, machine building, electronics, transport, and other services. Most recipients were
large companies, according to Lithuanian definitions. About 15% of the enterprises receiving
assistance were SME.
- 29 -



As mentioned above, Consulta's operations and procedures were developed with the help of a
significant amount of technical assistance and training by several intemational consulting firms
paid for by EU-Phare. In April 1997 Consulta received an ISO-9001 certificate for its quality
management systems. Consulta's activities, financial statements, and its use of World Bank and
EU-Phare funds were audited by the international audit firm Coopers & Lybrand (later
PriceWaterhouseCoopers).
Consulta functioned from the beginning of 1996 until June 1998. At the end of 1997, the
Ministry of European Affairs decided to cease Consulta's operations. It was done in mid-1998
as soon as all outstanding consulting commitments were fulfilled.
Consulta's assets and liabilities were transferred to the Lithuanian Development Agency. The
reasons for this were that the Government subsidising of consulting activities was no longer
necessary nor desirable, and that other, private-consulting firms had emerged that could
perform the services of Consulta.
By the time Consulta's operations were officially ceased, it had utilised a total of US $3.5
million of the Technical Assistance component (Part B) of the EFSAP Loan, leaving US
$1,003,756 unused. The unused portion of the Loan was moved to the Credit Line component
(Part A).
3. Assessment of Outcome
3.1. Financial Sector
The EFSAP Credit Line was a source of long-term funds for the commercial banks in
Lithuania at a time of a relatively undeveloped banking sector.
The EFSAP Credit Line improved lending capacity of PFIs due to availability of funds for
working capital and investment financing. Due to the participation provided by the technical
assistance by the EFSAP, it helped PFIs to attract foreign investors. Availability of the
EFSAP Credit Line resources made positive impact on the PFIs liquidity during the financial
crises in 1996 and 1998. Sub-loans from the EFSAP funds had a positive impact on reduction
of local interest rates. Due to the technical assistance provided, the PFIs improved the quality
of their sub-projects analysis and procurement procedures.
3.2. Enterprise Sector
The EFSAP had an impact on private enterprises growth and development - the
sub-borrowers have introduced modem equipment into production and started to produce new
high quality and marketable products (restructuring of private companies), increased the
amounts of working capital, and created new working places.
The Bank procedures substantially strengthened financial discipline of the sub-borrowers.
- 30 -



3.3. Consulta
In March-April 1998 Baltic Surveys Ltd., (an affiliate of the Gallup group), performed a
survey of Conulta's clients as well as of consultants which had participated in Consulta
projects or had unsuccessfully bid for such projects. This survey confirmed the impression of
the Government and the World Bank, that Consulta had done a good job and that both clients
and consulting companies were satisfied with the services and performance of Consulta.
Several of the state-owned enterprises, which at the outset were in various kinds of difficulties
and which received assistance from or through Consulta, were later successfully privatized.
Many of the private enterprises receiving assistance were able to get financing for their
projects from the credit line or from other sources.
The involvement by Consulta of local consulting companies for the post-diagnostic studies
helped to develop a core of competent consultants and consulting companies. This was
achieved, also thanks, to co-operation in case of some of the projects of foreign and
Lithuanian consulting companies.
- 31 -



Chart 1
Number of Approved Sub-loans by
Purpose
Investment & WCL
Working Capital
Investment
0          5          10          15
Chart 2
Total Sub-loans by Purpose
Investment &
working capital
21,7%                         Investment
36,3%
Working capital
42,0%
- 32 -



Chart 3
Number of Approved Sub-loans by
Sector
Other  il  
Pharmacy & medicine
Chemical industry
Heavy industry             vA 
Furniture & equipment
Food production
Textiles and papers production
Services
0              5              10              15
Chart 4
Total Sub-loans by Sector
Pharmacy &   Textiles and
Other  medicine          papers
2%        3%          production
15%
30%
S ervic es     ~           Furniture &
equipment
22%
--Heavy industry
Food production            Chemical             3%
15%                   industry
10%
- 33 -



Disbuised Amount,
DEM and USD
Number of sub-loans
C              ~~~~~Up to 1year-                     - 
12.1.96 
o                                                 _o
2.3.97 A0
3.12.97            0.
12.1.96 f w i W  li lil < i l 5 0 :-- 01 [1 0 up t  1 2years
4.24.97                                                   'T                                                                        D
6.10.97                                                                          2                                                 0 - 
7.11.97                                     |                                       > 3 0                                  00 -  ;E  ^  ~^  2- 2 years up  tO
.5ui  j.*             g              g .  =  P.,i .>.                                8- w; gj ==0: iP*  * 2to3 years  I 
~ 11.19.97                                                 0  
3 years up
fD 1.1498                                                                                to 4 years 
5.1598
103098                                                                            to 5 years
1.8.99                                                                                                                            -m
2.3.99                                                                         syearsand
~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~over
2.23.99
5.12.99
10. 12.99
10.1.00
l w l~



Table 2
SUB-LOANS APPROVED/COMMITED
10/01/00
Sub-loan                      Type of  Bank         Total amount           Disbursed        Undisbursed         LOE          Sub-loan  Sub-proj.
No.    No.           Company        sub-loan            Sub-loan sitned                                              issued        asied    period
______________                         USD         DEM        USD        DEM      USD  IDEM    Date        No.               month
L V/SLI-001  Ingman Vega         IL       VB          695.000                695 000                 0         03.14.96  VIL.001 03.19.96    24
2. HISL2-002  Nennga-I            IL       Hermis      200.000               200.000                 0         06.25.96  HB-001 07.04.96     60
3. V/SLI-003  Klaipcdos baldai   ILtWCL  VB                     1.070.770             1.070.770            0  08.22.96  VIL-002  10.18.96    60
4. V/SL1-004  Novena             IL/WCL  VB                      440.230               440.230             0  09.24.96  VIL-003  10.16.96    60
5. V/SLI-006  VB Lizingas         WCL    VB                     2.265.000             2.265,000            0  01.10.97  VIL-004  03.03.97    60
6. H/SL2-005  Audejas             WCL    Henmis        600.000               600.000                 0         12.20.96  HB-002  01.27.97    36
7. V/SLI-008  Grigikes           WCL    VB          1.125.000              1.125.000                0         02.07.97  VIL-006  03.18.97   48
8. V/SLI-009  Snaige-I            WCL    Vs          1.500.000              1.500.000                0         02.17.97  VIL-007  04.29.97   36
9. ViSLI-007  Trinyciai           WCL    VB           460.263                460.263                 0         01.17.97  VIL-005 02.06.97     6
10. V/SLI-009  Snaige-2            WCL    VB          1.000.000             1.000.000                 0         04.01.97  VIL-00| 04.29.97    36
11. H/SL2-002  Neringa-2          IL       Hermis      425.000                425.000                 0         04.02.97  HB-003  04.02.97    84
12. VISLI-010  Voke Ill           IL       VB         1.000.000             1.000.000                 0         04.22.97  VIL-009  06.09.97   60
13. V/SLI-011  Lelija             IL       VS                     724.000               724.000       0     0  04.22.97  VIL-010  05.20.97    48
14 VISLI-012  Pharmacon            IL      V B         375.009                375.000                 0         05.13.97  VIL-011 07.28.97    66
15. V/SLI-013  Utenos pienas       IL/WCL  VB         1.000.00              1.000.000                 0         05.28.97  VIL-012  06.03.97   60
16. H/SL2-014  Zenklas             ILJWCL  Hermis      120.000                120.000                 0         10.22.97  HB-004  10.28.97    60
17. V/SLI-015  Vitoma             WCL    VS            650.000                650.000                 0         04.14.98  VIL-013  04.08.98   12
18. VISLI-016  Kaunopienocentras   IL      VB          641.890                641.890                 0         05.19.98  VIL-014  05.19.9S   60
19. V/SLI-017  Pasidaryk pats      L       VS          500.000                500.000                 0         07.09.98  VIL-015 07.10.98    60
20. S/SL3-018  Naruva              WCL    SB            375.000               375.000                 0         07.17.98   SB-001 08.20.98    36
21. V/SLI-019  Veina               IL       VS          752.966               752.966                 0         08.10.98  VIL-016  08.10.98   56
22. V/SLI-020  Gudobele           IL       VB           366.250               293.946            72.303         08.20.98  VIL-017  08.20.98   57
23. V/SL1-021  Ingman Vega         WCL    VB            250.000               250.000                 0         09.25.98  VIL-OS  09.25.98    6
24. H/SL2-022  Vytaras            IL/WCL  Hermis        500.000               500.000                 0         09.25.98  HB-005  07.08.98    60
25. H/SL2-023  Grigikes           WCL    Hermis       350.000                350.000                 0         10.05.98  HB-006  07.2S.98    12
26. V/SLI-024  Grozio terapijos ir    IL    VB          200.000               200.000                 0         10.13.98  VIL-019  10.15.98   36
kosmet. Centras
27. S/SL3-025   Klaipedos vieAbulis   IL/WCL  SB        500.000               500.000                 0         12.07.98   SB-002  12.14.98   60
28. V/SLI-026  Cans               IL        VB         230.000                230.000                 0         12.22.98  VIL-020  12.29.98   60
29. VlSLI-027  Lilfosa            IL        Vs          700.000               700.000                 0         12.30.98  VIL-021  12.30.98   24
30. V/SLI-028- Rokikio suris     IL        VB               0                      0                 0         02.08.99  VIL-022  02.08.99   60
31. S/SL3-029  Zemaitijos keliai  IL/WCL  SB           400.000                400.000                 0         05.11.99   SB-003  05.17.99   48
32. S/SL3-030  giauliu plentas     WCL    B            500.000               500.000                 0         05.11.99   SB-004  05.18.99   48
33. H/SL2-031  Kucinsko firma ARVI IL/WCL  Hermis    1.000.000              1.000.000                 0         05.26.99  HB-007  07.28.99    48
34. H/SL2-032  Somlita             WCL    Hermis        340.000               340.000                 0         101.28.99  HB-008  11.24.99    10
35. H/SL2-033  Olympic Gym        IL        Hermis      743.631               743.631                 0         11.09.99  HB-009  12.20.99    60
_________________                                                                               _______________    01.24.00
17.500.000  4500000  17427697  4.500.000  72.303       0
USD/DEM                             2,21                                                              _
* the sub-project 'Rokilkio suris" was cancelled on 06.07.1999 ( detail explanations have been presented in Work with Sub-Projects).
USD                  DEM          |
TOTAL LOAN                            18.503756              4.500.000
TOTAL DISBURSED                       17.427697    94,1%    4.500.000   100,00%
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                      1.076.059     5,82%           0     0,00%
DISBURSED 1996                         1.953.756    10,56%    1,506.358    33,47%
DISBURSED 1997                         7.320.116    39,56%I  2.993.642    66,53
DISBURSED 1998                         3,821.912    20,65%           0     0,00.
DISBURSED 1999                         4.331.912    23,41%           0     0,00%
TOTAL DISBURSED                       17.427.697    70,77%   4.500.000   100,00%
- 35 -



(b) Cofinanciers:
(1) The Danish Government
*  The Danish Partner, Unibank had an excellent project co-operation with the Dutch ING Bank.
* Unibank was responsible for the Credit Management and Financial Management and Control
elements of the Project.
* Both Unibank and The Danish Agency for Trade and Industry found the credit management
parts successful. UKIO BANKAS developed new credit routines and new credit politics. The
initial implementation of both was finished during the project incl. the education part.
* The difficult part was the Financial Management.
* Partly because the bank had lack of IT resources and lack of Priority on IT.
* Partly because the financial director worked against the project.
* There were some struggles during the Financial Management project.
* The Quality Assurance Checks were very useful helping identifying project weaknesses.
3 1 I/2 year is too little for a twinning programme. It takes at least 2-21/2 years to influence on
company cultures.
(2) The Government of the Netherlands ("Senter")
Senter has considered the project as successful. The overall performance of the Ukio Bankas has
improved. This was one of the main goals of the project. Our only comment would be that it is a
pity that the Ukio bankas did not manage to qualify for the World Bank EFSAP Credit Line.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
(1) Vilniaus Bankas (Participating Financial Intermediary)
"Vilniaus Bankas
Member of the SEB Group
The World Bank - Vilnius Office                       October 30, 2000
Mr. Peter Modeen                                       Our ref.: 050304
Vilniaus g. 28, 2600 Vilnius
Enterprise and Financial Sector Assistance Project
Dear Mr. Modeen,
Referring to your letter of September 21, 2000 we would like to submit to provide our
resume and thoughts on World Bank's Enterprise and Financial Sector Assistance
Project implementation results.
- 36 -



Until the end of 1995 Vilniaus Bankas had a possibility to finance clients' long-term
investment projects only by means of on-lending funds of foreign financial institutions
on the basis of Lithuanian State guarantee or export credit agencies (ECA) insurance.
At that time due to the market conditions, the bank had no possibility to attract
long-term deposits. Financing schemes based on export credits have several essential
shortcomings:
1. Export credit financing scheme allows financing import of capital goods only from
the country which financial institution provides funds for this purpose. This scheme
does not allow financing of permanent working capital, which usually is needed when
implementing investing projects.
2. ECA's political risk coverage premium, which at that time was at the level of 7-8%
calculated as flat fee from the financing amount considerably increased investment
project implementation costs.
At the end of year 1995 Vilniaus Bankas signed first long term credit line agreements
with the World Bank, represented by the Ministry of Finance and European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development. Utilisation of World Bank's credit line funds was
most useful for the bank during period of years 1996 through 1998. We confident of
the regarding usefulness of World Bank's credit line, which is free of above mentioned
restrictions of the export credit financing scheme especially having in mind that
above-mentioned shortcomings of export credit financing scheme. Funds of credit line
were utilised for the purpose of financing private entities' investment projects for the
implementation of new technologies, expansion of existing productive capacities,
permanent working capital financing.
Experience gained by utilising funds of credit line was very useful for Vilniaus Bankas
credit specialists. In order to comply with World Bank's guidelines Vilniaus Bankas
implemented more strict requirements for investment projects and borrower's financial
ratios when long-term investment projects were considered (requirements for goods
delivery contracts, limitation for the down payment, debt service coverage ratios, etc.).
Notwithstanding all positive factors we also would like to mention some negative ones.
One of such was considerable long period of project assessment and loan granting for
the borrower, especially in the first year of credit line. As a result, some clients were
forced to look for alternative financing resources. Sometimes period from submission
of application for disbursement to actual disbursement of funds took unpredictably
long period. We think that more freedom for Vilniaus Bankas as financial intermediary
disbursing funds could lead for more rational, efficient and quicker utilisation of funds.
We are of the opinion that today, when Lithuanian banks' deposit basis is much
stronger than some five years ago, when foreign
- 37 -



financial markets recognised Lithuanian banking sector as reliable one, medium term
bank to bank loans became common business practice, implementation and utilisation
of similar type of credit lines would be difficult.
Finally, summarising positive and negative aspects we would like to assure that we are
very satisfied of the results achieved by implementation World Bank's Financial Sector
Assistance Project. Especially we are content by the assistance, good will and
professional skills of World Bank's and APEX unit specialists. Thank you all for
co-operation.
Sincerely yours,
Raimondas Kvedaras                       Audrius Ziugzda
Deputy Chairman of the Board             Director
Financial Institutions Department"
(2) Siauliu Bankas (Participating Financial Intermediary)
"SIAULIU BANKAS
October 16, 2000
No.4116
Mr. Peter Modeen
Task Team Leader
The World Bank-Vilnius Office
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
28 Vilniaus St.
Vilnius, 2600
Re: Implementation Completion Report for World Bank Loan No.3866-0-1-2
Dear Mr. Modeen,
Siauliu Bankas AB has joined the World Bank Enterprise and Financial Sector
Assistance Project in Lithuania rather late - on March 30, 1998, i.e. three years after
the beginning of the project (this was caused by the World Bank requirements for the
participating financial institutions - it was only at the end of 1997 that Siauliu Bankas
AB exceeded the minimal USD 25 million asset limit). That is why we can assess only
that part of the project that we have been involved in.
- 38 -



Technical assistance
As soon as it joined the project, Siauliu Bankas AB received technical assistance
(consultancy) which was undoubtedly useful. Together with the consultants we
developed the activities of the Internal Audit Department, crediting procedures, joined
our efforts in writing the Credit Manual and Project (Business Plan) Sensibility
Evaluation Model (on the MS/Excel base).
Utilisation of credit line funds and their usefulness to the Customers
Siauliu Bankas AB financed four of its customers from the project credit line:
* Close corporation 'Naruva' UAB (Klaipeda) - 375,000 USD, loan period
1998.08.20 - 2001.07.30, the purpose of the loan - to supplement the working capital,
usefulness to the customer - the change in the form of settlement with suppliers
allowed to decrease considerably the cost price of the product (tins for food
preserves);
* Joint-stock company 'KLAIPEDOS VIESBUTIS' AB (Klaipeda) - 400,000 USD,
loan period 1998.12.14 - 2003.12.10, the purpose of the loan - a 200 places
conference hall with synchronic translation equipment and modemisation of 23 rooms,
usefulness to the borrower - increase in realisation income and profit.
* Close corporation 'SIAULIU PLENTAS' UAB (Siauliai) - 500,000 USD, loan
period - 1999.05.18 - 2003.05.01, the purpose of the loan - to supplement the working
capital, usefulness to the customer - a long-term solution of working capital for
seasonal activities.
* Close corporation 'ZEMAITIJOS KELIAI' UAB (Telsiai) - 400,000 USD, loan
period - 1999.05.17 - 2002.12.30, the purpose of the loan - to supplement the working
capital, usefulness to the customer - a long term solution of working capital for
seasonal activities.
All the customers are only of a good opinion about the World Bank Project. They
confirm that loans received from the credit line of the World Bank helped to achieve
their objectives (increase in sales, reduction of cost price, etc.). The duration and cost
of the loans have been emphasised as major merits of the project.
Loan approval and disbursement procedures
Loan approval and disbursement procedures set by the World Bank in most cases were
more complicated than those applied by Siauliu Bankas so far, however, they were
totally acceptable. Some stages of the procedures will be applied by Siauliu Bankas in
its future practice.
Co-operation with the APEX UNIT of the Bank of Lithuania
We are satisfied with the activities of the specialists working in the APEX Unit of the
Bank of Lithuania. Co-operation was businesslike and proper. Their consultation and
advice have been very useful.
- 39 -



On the whole our assessment of the World Bank Project is only positive. We think it
was useful and successful not only to the participating industrial but also for financial
institutions.
We would like to take this opportunity to express our gratitude for the trust in our
Bank and for the co-operation. We hope to be able to participate in the World Bank
projects in Lithuania in the future.
Sincerely yours,
Algirdas Butkus
Chairman of the Bank Board"
10. Additional Information
NA.
- 40 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
4' -
Investment sub-projects:
1) quality of sub-oans (number of     1) All the loans granted from the credit-line   1) No non-performing sub-oans out of the 35
non-performing hans/number of total   are in the best risk category.         sub-loans made.
sub-loans made)
2) addiinal revenues generated by     (2) There are no sttistics available, but it is  2) At the end of 2000 a survey of reipient
sub-projects                          clear from a review of the sub-projects that  enterprises was made by the PFIs.
they have generated substania additional   According to the survey revenues increased
revenues and employment               by an average 26% as a result of the projects
financed from the credit line. This is
remarkable in the light of the negative effects
on most enterprises as a result of the
financial crisis in Russia in 1998.
Technical assistance to enterprises:
1) improvements in return on assets   NA                                     1) No statistics are available, but a client
2) ownership change                   NA                                     survey performed at the time of the closing of
3) incremental investments generated  NA                                     Conwsuta, showed that all enterprises were
still in existence and expressed, that the
assistance had been useful for their
operations.
2) No statistics available, but several of the
state enterprises assisted were subsequentiy
privatized.
3) NA
Bank capitalisation:
1) improvement in capital adequacy ratios of All PFIs have capital adequacy ratios far    All PFis have capital adequacy ratios far
qualified PFIs                        above the regulatory minimum.          above the regulatory minimum.
Output Indicators:
NA                                    NA                                     NA
End of project
-41 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Bank capitalisation                                 10.00           5.00           50
Investment sub-projects (credit-line)               26.50          27.50          104
Technical assistance                                13.80           9.80           71
Total Baseline Cost                                 50.30          42.30
Total Project Costs            50.30          42.30
Total Financing Required             50.30          42.30
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Note: The project costs were not estimated by procurement arrangements in SAR.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
\&0~PM                                            MthodA C
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         9.80         0.00         9.80
(0.00)       (0.00)       (3.50)       (0.00)       (3.50)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         5.00         5.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
-42 -



5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           27.50         27.50
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (21.50)        (21.50)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         0.00           0.00            9.80          32.50         42.30
(0.00)         (0.00)         (3.50)        (21.50)        (25.00)
Point 4 (Misc.) refers to the Government of Sweden's capital injection to the accredited banks.
Point 5 (Misc.) refers to the sub-loans for (i) investment and working capital (21 % of the total
amount of sub-loans as of 9/30/00), (ii) working capital (42%) and (iii) investment purposes
(37%).
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
DIncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Credit line              20.50      6.00       0.00      21.50      6.00      0.00    104.9  100.0   0.0
Technical assistance      4.50      1.30       8.00      3.50       1.30      5.00     77.8   100.0  62.5
Bank capitalisation       0.00      0.00      10.00      0.00       0.00      5.00     0.0    0.0   50.0
-43 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
See Section 4.3
- 44 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation     Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                        Progress         Objective
Identification/Preparation
6/6-6/17/1993                 1   Task manager
4   PSD expert
1   FSD expert
1   Consultant
8/23-8/28/1993                1   Task manager
1   Automation expert
1   Accounting expert
1   FSD expert
10/4-10/8/1993                1   Task manager
I   FSD expert
I   PSD expert
2/21-3/2/1994                 1   Task manager
2   PSD expert
1   FSD expert
Appraisal/Negotiation
5/31-6/16/1994                1   Task manager
I   Enterprise restructuring
I   Banking expert
I   Bank supervision
I   Consultant
I   Lawyer
4   Consultant
4/18-4/28/1994                1   Task manager
1   PSD expert
1   Banking expert
I   Operations expert
10/30-11/3/1995               1   Task manager
I   Financial analyst
I   Banking expert
Supervision
2/9-2/16/1996                 1  Enterprise expert
6/16-6/26/1996                1  Task manager                          S                 S
I  Enterprise specialist
I  Financial analyst
I  Banking expert
12/15-12/20/1996              1  Task manager                          S                 S
I  Financial analyst
4/13-4/19/1997                1  Task manager                         HS                HS
I  Enterprise specialist
I  Financial analyst
1  Banking expert
-45 -



12/9-11/18/1997                1  Program team leader                  HS                 S
I Task manager
I Enterprise specialist
6/15-6/19/1998                 1  Task team leader                     HS                 S
2/22-2/26/1999                 1  Task team leader                     HS                 S
-6/12/2000                     1  Task team leader                     HS                 S
ICR
-                            ~~~~~~~HS          HS
(b) Staff
|    Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation              128.6                      382,000
Appraisal/Negotiation                    53.1                      143,600
Supervision                             113.0                      293,300
ICR                                      20.0                       60,000
Total                                   314.7                      878,900
-46 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
CJ Sector Policies                       O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
EJ Physical                              OH  OSUOM  O N  * NA
0 Financial                              O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
El Institutional Development             * H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Environmental                         O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction              O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
EGender                           OH OSUOM ON *NA
CJ Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Private sector development             0 H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
El Public sector management              O H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 47 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
D Lending                                            *HSOS OiU OHU
0 Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
OI Overall                                           *HS OS  O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
O Preparation                                        OHS OS  OU  O HU
O  Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS  OU  O HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS O u O HU
-48 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
NA.
- 49 -



