Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                                TF 020022
                        DANISH GRANT RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 3866-0-1-2 LT
                          Danish Grant Agreement
           (Enterprise and Financial Sector Assistance Project)
                                  between
          INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     as Administrator of Danish Funds
                            provided by Denmark
                                    and
                                UKIO BANKAS
                          Dated December 4, 1995
                                                                TF 020022
                        DANISH GRANT RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 3866-0-1-2 LT
                        DANISH GRANT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 4, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as
Administrator (the Administrator) of the Danish Grant (as
hereinafter defined) provided by Denmark (the Donor), and UKIO
BANKAS (the Recipient).
      WHEREAS (A) the Government of Denmark, represented by the
Danish Agency for Development of Trade and Industry (the
þAgencyþ) wishes to make available to the Recipient a grant in
the amount of two million three hundred and forty-six thousand
seven hundred and fifty-three  Danish Kroners (DKK2,346,753)
(the Danish Grant) to assist the Recipient in the financing of
the technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement (the Technical Assistance);
      WHEREAS (B) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 19,
1995 (countersigned September 5, 1995) between Denmark and the
Bank, Denmark has requested the Bank, and the Bank has agreed,
to administer grant funds to be made available by Denmark for
the financing of Technical Assistance in accordance with the
provisions of such letter agreement; and
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                               ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. (a)  The following provisions of the General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the
Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth
in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
            (i)   Article I;
           (ii)   Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8),
                  (9), (10), (11), (18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
          (iii)   Section 3.01;
           (iv)   Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
            (v)   Article V;
           (vi)   Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i)
                  and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
          (vii)   Section 8.01 (b);
         (viii)   Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05,
                  9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
           (ix)   Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and
            (x)   Article XI.
      (b)   The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
            (i)   the term "Bank", wherever used in the General
      Conditions, other than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f)
      thereof and the last use of such term in Section 5.01
      thereof, means the International Bank for Reconstruction
      and Development acting as Administrator of the Danish
      Grant pursuant to the letter agreement between Denmark and
      the Bank referred to in Recital (B) of this Agreement,
      except that in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also
      include the International Bank for Reconstruction and
      Development acting in its own capacity;
           (ii)  the term "Borrower", whenever used in the
      General Conditions, means the Recipient;
          (iii)  the term "Loan Agreement", whenever used in
      the General Conditions, means this Agreement;
           (iv)  the term "Loan", whenever used in the General
      Conditions, means the Danish Grant extended to the
      Recipient under this Agreement;
           (v)   the term "Loan Account", whenever used in the
      General Conditions, means the Danish Grant Account opened
      by the Administrator on its books, in the name of the
      Recipient, to which the amount of the Danish Grant is
      credited;
          (vi)  the term "Project" wherever used in the General
      Conditions, means the Technical Assistance described in
      Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
         (vii)  Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
                  "Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be
            made in Danish kroner; provided, however, that if
            the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds
            of the Danish Grant have been paid or are payable in
Page  3
            another currency, the Administrator shall, at the
            request of the Recipient, purchase such currency
            with the proceeds of such withdrawal."; and
        (viii)  Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
                  "(c)  Not later than six (6) months after the
            Closing Date, or such later date as may be agreed
            for this purpose between the Recipient and the
            Administrator, the Recipient shall prepare and
            furnish to the Administrator a report of such scope
            and in such detail as the Administrator shall
            reasonably request, on the execution of the Project,
            the performance by the Recipient and the
            Administrator of their respective obligations under
            the Danish Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of
            the purposes of the Danish Grant.".
      Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Danish Kroners" and "DKK" mean the currency of Denmark;
      (b)   "Bank of Lithuania" means the central bank of the
Republic of Lithuania, established and operating pursuant to
the Law on the Bank of Lithuania, dated December 23, 1994, as
the same may be amended from time to time; and
      (c)   "UKIO Bankas" means the joint stock bank licensed by
the Bank of Lithuania, registered on June 27, 1989, and
reregistered on November 19, 1992, under Registration No. 1
with Registration Code No. 1202013.
                              ARTICLE II
                              The Grant
      Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available
to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount of two
million three hundred and forty-six thousand seven hundred and
fifty-three Danish Kroners (DKK2,346,753) of which an aggregate
amount of fifty eight thousand one hundred and sixty Danish
Kroners (DKK58,160) shall be deducted by the Administrator
pursuant to paragraph 4 of the agreement dated July 19, 1995,
between Denmark and the Administrator.
      Section 2.02. The amount of the Danish Grant may be
withdrawn from the Danish Grant Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Recipient and the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if
the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the Danish Grant.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997
or such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later
date.
                             ARTICLE III
             Execution of the Project and Financial Covenants
      Section 3.01. The Recipient shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial, banking and administrative practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
Page  4
services and other resources required for the Project.
      Section 3.02.  Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the grant shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause
to be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
      (b)   The Recipient shall :
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Administrator;
           (ii)   furnish to the Administrator as soon as
                  available, but in any case not later than six
                  (6) months after the end of each such year,
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the
                  Administrator shall have reasonably requested;
                  and
          (iii)   furnish to the Administrator such other
                  information concerning said records and
                  accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Administrator shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
                               ARTICLE IV
                      Effectiveness and Termination
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall upon its signature by
the parties hereto become effective as of the date first above
written and shall continue in effect until the Danish Grant has
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have
fulfilled their obligations hereunder.
                              ARTICLE V
                           Representation
      Section 5.01. The Chairman of the Board is designated as
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Recipient:
            Ukio Bankas
            Grudzio 9
            3000 Kaunas, Lithuania
      For the Administrator:
            International Bank  for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
Page  5
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names as of the day
and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
                  DEVELOPMENT
                  as Administrator of the Danish Grant
                  By /s/ Basil Kavalsky
                                                Authorized Representative
                  UKIO BANKAS
                  By /s/ Valdimaras Butenas
                                                Authorized Representative
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                           Withdrawal of the Grant
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the Grant, the allocation of the amount of
the Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures
for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Grant Allocated         % of
                            (Expressed        Expenditures
Category                in DKK Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Consultants'
    Services                 2,288,593       100%
(2) Refunding of                46,935       Amount due
    administrative                           pursuant to
    expenditures of                          Section 2.01 of
    the Bank                                 this Agreement
(3) Refunding of audit          11,225       Amount due
    costs of the Bank                        pursuant to
                                             Section 2.01 of
                                             this Agreement
                             _________
     TOTAL                   2,346,753
                             =========
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above and
unless otherwise agreed with the Administrator, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                  Description of Technical Assistance
      The objective of the Technical Assistance is to assist
the Recipient in implementing a comprehensive tailor-made
institutional development program through a twinning
Page  6
arrangement with a Danish banking institution.
      The institutional development program shall cover all
areas of banking practice, including, but without limitation,
strategic and financial planning, marketing, organization
structure, credit management, asset/liability management,
financial management and internal auditing.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                     Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Recipient in the implementation
of the Project, consultants shall be employed whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Administrator. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Administrator on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Administrator in August 1981 (the Consultant
Guidelines). For complex time-based assignments, the
Recipient shall employ such consultants under contracts using
the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Administrator, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Administrator. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the
Administrator, or, unless otherwise agreed with the
Administrator, the Recipient shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Administrator.
