Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF020023
Swedish Grant Agreement
(Enterprise and Financial Sector Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by SWEDEN
Dated October 12, 1995
TF020023
SWEDISH GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 12, 1995, between Lithuania (the Recipient) and the 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as 
Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds provided by SWEDEN (the Donor).
WHEREAS (A) the Government of Sweden wishes to make available to the Recipient a 
grant in the amount of two hundred two thousand six hundred dollars ($202,600) to 
assist the Recipient in the financing of the technical assistance described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Technical Assistance); and
WHEREAS (B) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 13, 1995, as amended on 
August 12, 1995, and October 2, 1995, between Sweden and the Bank, Sweden has 
requested the Bank, and the Bank has agreed, to administer grant funds to be made 
available by Sweden for the financing of the Technical Assistance in accordance with 
the provisions of such letter agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
Page  2
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (18) 
and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06; 
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Bank," wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development acting as Administrator of the 
Grant pursuant to the letter agreement between Sweden and the Bank 
referred to in Recital (A) of this Agreement, except that in 
Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting in its own 
capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Loan Agreement," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Loan," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Grant;
(v)
the term "Loan Account," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant Account, an account opened by the Administrator on 
its books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the 
Grant is credited;
(vi)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in Dollars; provided, 
however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of the Grant have been 
paid or are payable in another currency, the Administrator shall, at the 
request of the Recipient, purchase such currency with the proceeds of such 
withdrawal."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"EFSAP" means the Enterprise and Financial Sector Assistance Project 
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement dated July 19, 1995 between the 
Recipient and the Administrator;
Page  3
(b)
"Apex" means the Apex Unit established and maintained within the Bank of 
Lithuania which is responsible for overseeing and coordinating overall project 
implementation of Part A of the EFSAP;
(c)
"Bank of Lithuania" or "BOL" means the central bank of the Recipient, 
established and operating pursuant to the Recipient's Law on the Bank of Lithuania 
dated December 23, 1994, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(d)
"Consulta" means the Enterprise Restructuring and Consulting Agency, 
established as a non-profit organization pursuant to Resolution No. 963 of the 
Government of the Recipient, dated December 21, 1993, as modified by Resolution No. 
194 of the Government of the Recipient, dated March 23, 1994, and registered in the 
Recipient's Enterprise Register on October 11, 1994, which is responsible for 
implementation of Part B of the EFSAP;
(e)
"Participating Financial Institutions" or "PFIs" means the banks and 
other financial institutions established and operating according to the applicable 
rules of the Recipient and approved by the Bank for participation in the EFSAP; and
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b)of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an 
amount of $202,600 (two hundred two thousand six hundred dollars).
Section 2.02. (a) After the funds are made available to the Bank by the Donor, 
the amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time 
to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator, for expenditures 
made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the 
Administrator on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Administrator may invest the Grant funds pending their disbursement.  
The income earned will be added to the Grant Account and used for the purposes of the 
Grant.  The Administrator will retain 2% of the Grant as fee to cover the cost of 
administration of the funds by the Administrator. Promptly after the Effective Date, 
the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the administrative costs of the 
Administrator.
(d)
The Administrator will maintain separate records and ledger accounts in 
respect of the Grant funds and disbursements made therefrom.  Within 90 days of each 
December 31, March 31, June 30 and September 30, the Administrator will prepare a 
financial statement in United States Dollars with respect to the Grant funds and 
forward a copy to the Donor.  The Administrator will cause the financial statements to 
be audited by the Administrator's external auditors at the completion of the 
disbursement of the Grant and will forward a copy of the auditor's report to the 
Donor.  Promptly after the audits are completed, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the audit costs of the Administrator.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1997 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. The Recipient shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and banking 
Page  4
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
Section 4.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the Grant 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 4.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties hereto.
Section 5.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations 
hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 6.01. The Ministry of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Page  5
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
Sermuksniy 6
2696 Vilnius 
Lithuania
Telex: 
261252 FUNA SU
For the Administrator:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI)or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA 
By /s/ Reinoldijus Sarkinas
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ Basil Kavalsky
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amount of the Grant to each Category and the percentage 
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
   % of
Amount of the
 Expenditures
Category
Grant Allocated
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants'
   196,048
100%
Services
(2)
Refunding of
Amount due
administrative
pursuant
Page  6
expenditures of
Section 2.02(c) of
the Bank
     4,052
this Agreement
(3)
Refunding of
Amount due
audit cost
pursuant
of the Bank
     2,500
Section 2.02(d) of
this Agreement
TOTAL
   202,600
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, and unless otherwise agreed 
between the Administrator and the Recipient, no withdrawals shall be made in respect 
of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
3.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods and 
services not exceeding $20,000, equivalent under such terms and conditions as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Technical Assistance
The Technical Assistance shall consist of the provision of consultants’ services 
to assist Apex and Consulta in the implementation of the EFSAP.
The consultants shall perform the following functions: 
(i)
assist Apex with the design, implementation and supervision of the 
accounting and financial reporting systems for the credit line 
component of the EFSAP;
(ii)
assist Consulta with the design, implementation and supervision of 
the accounting and financial reporting systems for the technical 
assistance component of the EFSAP; and
(iii)
provide general management assistance to Apex.
SCHEDULE 3
Consultants' Services
In order to assist the Recipient in the implementation of the Technical 
Assistance, the Recipient shall employ consultants, nationals of Sweden, whose 
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Category 1 as set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $15,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Page  7
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocations, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts determined by the Administrator to be required to pay 
for eligible expenditures during the four months following the date of each such 
request, which amount shall not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Administrator shall have determined to be so 
required.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant Account and 
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, 
within the period of time specified in Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said 
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect 
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
Page  8
from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, 
refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
