Doct of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
VAVW No. P-5921-BAR
MEMORNDMS AD          ATIOON
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTENATIONAL BANK FOR     SAD                P
TO THE
EECUTJIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN M AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$7.8 KILLION
TO BARBADOS
FOR A
EDAN RESOURCES PROJECT
JUNE 4, 1993
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.:P- 5921 BAR   Type: (PM)
Title: HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
Author: SCHNEIDMAN, M.
Ext.:39391 Room:I 5177 Dept.:LA3HR
This documet has a restricted distibution an  any be wsed by recipients only In the performance of
tbeir official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank aothoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Curnency Unit = Barbados Dollar (BDS$)
US$1.00 = BDS$2.00 (Appraisal Rate)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVITIONS AND ACRONYM
BAS          Business Advisory Service
BCC          Barbados Community College
BNB         Barbados National Bank
BSSEE        Barbados Secondary School Entrance Exam
CAICOM   Caribbean Community
CDB         Caribbean Development Bank
CE?          Common Exteral Tariff
EPIU         Educao Prect Implemenion Unit
ETF          Employment and Trmining Fund
GOB          Government of Barbados
MOEn    of Education
NE          National Employment Bureau
NTB          National Trining Board
PEP         Public Ependiture Program
PPG         Public and PubLicly Guaranteed
SAL          Scbr  Adjustment Loan
SJPP        Samuel Jackman Pecod Polytechnic
TVET        Technical and Vocadonal Education and Training
VAT         Vale Added TIx



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
BARADOS
HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
LOA AN<D PEROJECT SUMARY
Borrower                  Barbados
Amount                    US$ 7.8 milion
Tem                       15 years including a five-year grace period, at the
standaid EBRD variable inteest rate.
Finanrng Plan                          Lcal         Freign      ItaI
........ uS $ Million.
Government  7.8           0.0          7.8
IBRD         0.9          J.           _U
Total        8.7          6.9          15.6
Rate of Return            Not Applicable
Poverty Category          Program of lTrgeted Interntions
Staff Appraal Report    11319 - BAR
Map                        BRD 24710
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPME0NT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSiD LOAN TO BARBADOS
FOR A HUMAN RESOURCES PRO,ECT
1.   I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed loan to Barbados for the equivalent of US$7.8 million to help finance a Human
Resources Project. The loan would be at the Bank's standard variable interest rate for a term
of 15 years, including a grace period of five years.
PART I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND THE BANK GROUPPS
ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Economic Policies and Performance
Backgound
2.   Despite its small size - a populaton of 255,000 and an area of 431 square km.- and a
wrlaively nanrow  esource base, Barbados established an impressive record of economic and
social development since it gained independence from Great Britain in 1966. GNP per capita
reached US$6,630 in 1991, the highest among the World Banks active bonowers. Associated
with this income growth was a steady and signifct improvement in the distution of income
and socia welfare - in educational attainment, housing, and health and nutrition standards; the
establishment of a solid social and economic institutional framework and diversification of the
country's economic base, from a monoculture exporting sugar, to a services oriented economy
based on tourism and busins services. A graduation program was initiated in 1984 which
involved a seven-year phase-out period (PY85-91) to be supported by a Bank lending program
of around US$9 million per year in new com Ients, ttlling US$63 million over the period.
3.   As part of the grduation process, an economic mission visited Barbados at the end of
1990 to report on the state of progress (Barbados: Requirements for Sustained Development,
Report No. 9545-BAR). The mission reviewed Babados' development eperience since 1966
and confirmed the country's achievements in tenns of economic and social development,
insuional capacity and access to capital markets. However, the mission also found that the
economy's dynamism had begun to erode during the 1980s and, that as of end 1990, the
economy was registering domestic and external imbalnces of crisis proportions which called for
urgent stabiliation.
4. The origin of Barbados' economic difficulties can be traced back to the early to mid
1980s when its external competitiveness began to weaken. Domestic cost factors, stemming
from expansionary demand management policies and reinforced by wage pressures, contrbuted
to a real exchange rate (RER) appreciation over the 1980s. Moreover, trade and tax policies,



-2-
through a complex set of incentives and of government interventions, promoted the development
of an inefficient import-substituting sector. Efforts to rise revenues often entailed "quick tax
fixes" which compounded the tax system's anti-export bias and made it difficult to administer.
By 1986, private investment had begun to decine and manufacturing output had tapered off,
while the sugar industry continued its secular decline, draining an increasing volume of finarrial
resources from the economy. Moreover, employment growth was unable to absorb newv labor
force entants or displaced workers, so that unemployment rose to 15.5% of the labor force by
1989 from about 11% in 1980. Only tourism, aided by the weakening of the US$ vis-k-vis
European currencies, continued to prosper. But even here, wealmesses in the industry began
to emerge as a consequence of a mismatch between the quality and price of the product offered.
5.    By early 1991, the key macroeconomic perfomae indicators - the fiscal deficit,
foreign exchange availability, and Central Bank credit to the public sector - had reached
unsustainable levels. Nevertheless, the country continued to maintain price stability. The budget
presented to Parliament on April 2, 1991 introduced rmvenue measures to reduce the fiscal deficit
and included a commitment to implement complementay expendime reducdon meaures to
rstore domestic and extenal ba . In September 1991, following discussions with the IMP,
the Government introduced a supplementary budget aimed at stabiizhpg the economy, and in
February 1992 it entered into a 16 month IM Stand-by Arrangement, supplemented by a
purchase from the Compensatory Contingency Fund Facilty (CCF.
Stabilization Effots and Outcome
6.    The objective of the stabilization program was to regain finncial stabilit wile prepaig
stractur.1 reforms to improve conditions for economic growth. In order to maintain the long-
snding wexhange rate pariy (Barbados has maiained an exchange rate of BD$2:US$1 since
1975), the adjustment effort centred on a shap improvement in the public finances, and on the
pursuit of tight monetary and incomes policies. Specifically, the program aimed at: (i)
elimiang the overal fiscd deficit in FY92J93 through a combinatio of ewenitue reduction
and re'enue enhancing measures, including lowering the wage bil through an across the board
8% cut in public sector wages and the release of 3800 works ( ng  close to 10% of
public sector employment) in FY91192 followed by a wage freeze; (ii) implementing a restictive
monetary policy and replacing instruments of direct control with a more market-oriented
apach; and (ii) ino ng an incomes pohcy which, in addition to the public sector wage
cut and subsequet freeze, eailed "wage guideines'" for the private sector caling for a two-
year wage free  of all contcts, with allowacs for produciity bonuses and profit-sharig
arrangements. Structural refoms initiated under the Stand-by included Padiament appwval of
a  t  tax reform, preparain  of an indirect tax reform proposal, divestment of tre public
enterprises, and restuctrg of the Tourism Board, the sugar industry and the statowned
Barbados National Bank NB).



-3-
Table 1: KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS, 1986.99
Actl                 Et.           Prectd
198S-89      1990   1991         1992     1994    1997    1999
(avea)                                      (Rased on Adopdion of
CompreenveStutr
AdjustmentlPrograOl/
Real ODP Growth Rate (%2                  3.2         -33    -4.4         -3.7      2.0     3.5      3.5
Invsm t and Saving (% of GDP)
Gros Domestic Invetment               16.7        18.7   16.8         14.0     17.6    16.2    16.2
GOs Domestic Saving                   17.3        17.3   15.0         13.8     16.9    16.2    16.5
Public Finances (% of GDP)31
cnrl GOv. Ovea Balance               -3.8        -7.4   40.7          03       0.3     0.5      1.0
Consldated Public Sector              -4.7        -8.3    -1.2        -1.0    .0.5      0.0      0.5
Ovea Balance
Dalna. of Payset
CurrentAccountGDP4/                   -0.3        -2.3   -2.1         .0.8     .0.8     0.3      1.0
For'ipnlE=angeavae                     2.3         1.0    2.0          2.4      3.4     3.5      3.5
asm olm of lnos 3t & SI
Total DtIGDP                          40.8        40.0   38.6         39.3     43.9    38.S    32.5
Total DebtE o (G)                     69.7        76.7   77.9         79.1     71.8    60.8    50.7
Toa Debt SevkceBzpIut
(10)                                10.2        15.8   16.7         14.7     11.0    10.9      7.4
3ORD Exposur
MRD DebtP    Debt                      8.7         7.1    6.8          6.7      9.3    10.6      8.S
MBRD Dft S*beMods
(GOA)      .                         0.9         1.1    1.2          1.3      1.0     1.0      0.7
Ptfetred Creditor Debt
SUviO/P  Debt Srvlco                38.4        22.0   20.S         34.3     40.7    45.7    36.9
U hese proj         we illustaive of a posiblo outme combining a ceain set of assumpions In a condsiency fmawo
21 GDP at fclor coat.
3t   Ical yea; 1990 for amn fars to April 1, 1990 through Mrch 31,1991.
41  ncudes of c ltransf
SJ Rdained Iors.
Soures: Cea  Bank of Barbados DdF ad Wodd Bank staff oemates and prections
7.      The stabilization program  was implemented decisively and rapid progress was achieved
in resgt        fiscal and e nal balance.  The tightening of financial polcis, together with
inceased pidvate capital inflows and divestment receipts, helped replensh Central Bank gross
liquid  I national reserves to about two months' import equivalent by end FY92. However,
a  number of the structural measu                   and  instituonal refoms contained  in  the program
e erienced  delays, including  the  divestment of the  argeted  public  enteipriSs, and  the
restructgrn   of the suar industry, the Tourism  Board and the MND.



-4-
8.   Meanwbile, the economic recession has continued to deepen because of weak tourism
activity and domestic tightening of demand management policies. The decline in real GDP
which bean in 1990 continued through 1992, when a decrease of 4% is estimated. This
represents a cumulative drop in output of about 12% over the last tbree years. All major sectors
(except for non-sugar agriculure and busins services) have continued to record negative
growth. Unemployment has continued to rise to about 25% of the labor force by end 1992.
9.    Three purchases (totalling SDR 14.7 million) were made under the Stand-by aniangement
in 1992. Subsequent purchases have been delayed pending progress on structural measures and
agreement with the Govenmment on its medium-tenn policy agenda, in particular its incomes
policy, All quanftitve performance targets were, however, observed through March 1993. In
its 1993/94 budget, presented in March 1993, the Government reversed the 8% two-year salazy
cut of the public sector, but announced a two-year global wage freeze throughcut the economy.
An IMF Article IV mission visited Barbados in mid-MAy.
The Esteral Environment
10.  Barbados' economy depends heavily on the export of tourism and interational business
and financial services, and to a much lesser extent on sugar and other manufacrs. Tourism's
prorance is critical for Barbados' growth prospects. The sector curendy contributes dirctly
12% of GDP, over 20% of total employment, and 60% of export earnings. Barbados' sugar
exports (4% of eipot earings) benefit from preferent  market arrangements from the BC and
US; however, due to poor sector peiformance, the  OUntry bas not been able to meet its
combined quota in both marles in recent years. Manufs (9% of eort earnings)
have also fllen i recent years and are essentally geared towards the protected CARICOM
market. In terms of imports, Barbados is not too vlnemrable to oil price changes since it
produces half of its domestc oil consumption and all of its natural gas reqirements.
11.  Barbados' oss of competitiveness in tourism during the 1980s was accompanied by
increased competiton from other Caibbean desnations. Over the last few years, major
competitrs, such as Jamaica, Tridad & Tobago and Guyana, have undertaken far reaching
structual adjustment programs, which have improved their comparative advantage vis-k-vis
Barbados, both for tourism and other exports. Other tourism destnations, such as the OECS
cuntris, have also improved tourism infuctre and sevices, and are increasing their share
of the Caribbean markeL As a reslt, while toursm contined to expand by 20% in Jamaica
and 15% in the OECS during 1989-91, twrism arzivals inBarbados feliby a similrpewage.
The prlonged recssion in North America and in many European countries has exaerbated this
decline s     1990. Curent growth projections for indusalize co es imply that the
demand for tourism in Barbados will emain sluggish and lag behind that of its competitors untl
the country improves its competitive positio.
12.  Exchange rate flutuatmons among major currencies have also had an impact on Barbados'
tourism perfance. Barados attacts a considerably higher proportion of European tourists



-5-
than many Caribbean countries. Close to 40% of all Barbados tourist arrivals originate in the
U. K. and continental Europe, as compared to about 20% for the Caribbean as a whole. From
the mid to late 1980s, Barbados benefitted from the slide of the US dollar vis-k-vis major
European currencies. However, Barbados was negatively affected by the appreciation of the US
dollar with respect to a number of European currcies which took place during the last quarter
of 1992. While this situation was reversed in early 1993, if a significant appreciation of the US
dolLar were to occur in the future, it would further reduce Barbados' regional competitiveness.
13.  Barbados' external debt is manageable. In 1992 it amounted to US$656 million or 39%
of GDP while its total medium and long term debt stood at 26% of GDP; the interest to GDP
ratio was 3%. The total debt service ratio peaked at 17% in 1991, and bas declined since to
about 15% in 1992, after Barbados redeemed two yen-denominated bond issues. The Bank's
exposure is low; in 1992 the IBRD's share of Barbados' public and publicly guaranteed debt
stood at 6.7% and its debt service repsented 1.3% of Barbados' exports of goods and serices.
The recent financial improvements have enabled the country to improve its access to pnvate
capital markets. It obtained a US$12 million commercial loan in February 1993, repayable over
a 3 year period.
outlook
14.  The oudook for Barbados will depend on the direction of economic policies the
Govemment chooses over the next few months. Short term prospects for a rapid tun-around
are not promising. Toursm has only improved modestly m the recent winter season and
connues to fice increasing competition from other Caribbean desaions. A major reform is
required to improve the efficiency of the sugar industry; producton is now at a histoical low.
Manufacturing prospects are bleak as the sector is inefficient and highly protected. It produces
mostly for the limited CARICOM market, where Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago have become
the most efficient producers. Moreover, egulatory constraints and bureaucratic red tape have
inhibited private investment Recent revenue enhancing measures have also compounded the
already high domestic costs and excessive tax bue thmugh increases in taxes and import
taiffs. The stabination efforts have also resltd in an excessive reduction in public and
private investment
15. The Bank, the IMP and the IDB have been engaged for more than a year in discussonms
regarding the adoption of a comprehensive structul adjustment program. The Government is
cureny reviewing different policy options; however, no agreement has yet been reached with
the multilaterals on the tbrust or on the pace of the program required. This decision will affect
Barbados' prospects for a sustainable economic recovery. In the short term, there is lite room
for enhancing growth through an increase in public expenditures. Such a course would increse
the overall public sector deficit and renew foreign exchange presurm. Altematively, if such
expendites were to be financed by income or indirect taxes, the incentives for private
investment would be reduced and the economy's cost structure would be increased. Thus, strict
stabilizaon policies need to continue. Another option would be to continue with the current



-6-
stabilization efforts while slowly moving towards structural reform. The country could then
arrest the present economic decline and possibly resume very modest growth rates over the next
few years. Such a recovery path, however, would be excessively slow and insufficient to rapidly
reduce the high unemployment levels. To achieve a rapid recovery and restore growth back to
its historica. path, Batbados will need to adopt ? comprehensive structual adjustment program
ained at improving its international competitiveness quickly. The key elements of such A
program are descrbed below.
The Development Agenda
16.  To substantially improve its interational competitiveness and reverse the economic
deteioration of the past three years, Barbados will need to implement a comprehensive sauctural
adjustment program centering on: (i) the establisbment of a growth-oriented macroeconomic and
incentive framework; (ii) public sector reform; (iii) improvements in argeting soal assistance
to vulnerable groups; and (iv) reform of the sugar and financial sectors.
17.  Maeroeconomic and Incenive Framework. The stbizaton progam has succeeded
in improving the fiscal accounts and the Centml Bank's foreign exchange position. However,
additional shuctal adjustment measures to rapidly reestablish its iaonal competitiveness,
i.e. rapidly improving its RER, are needed to provide the basis for retoring growth and
reducing unemployment. These include reforming the tre regime, lowering labor costs in real
terms, sbteamlinig the tax rgime, and improving the framewoik for privat  sector
development.
18.  Barbados needs to rapidly implement a comprehnsivetrade reform progrm to sharly
reduce the economy's cost strut, improve resorce allocation and realign incentives to
stmulate exports. The trade regime is extemely distorted and complex and relies heavily on
diffent  tafiff rates, import surcharges, and qantitatve resticdons. Trade taxes bave aimed
at protecting the import-substitutng manufg and agrtual sectors and have generated
a strong anti-export bias and a wide dispersion of effective protection. The regme has become
progrsvely less hansparent over time; specil provisions and exemptions are applied on a
case-by-case basis, leading to a complex and costly t administrion system. The main agenda
in trade refom includes rpid movement to reduce the Common Exena Tariff (CET) tariff to
a 5-20% band, In line with te recent 0fast tmack" Caribbn Community (CARICOM)
agreement, ad elmination of stamp duties and other import surcharges, and of quatitativ
restricton.
19.  Lowering labor costs in real terms will also be crtcal for the socess of the structural
adjustment progim. The stabifization program envisged a gradual realigment of the RER
through fiscal, monetary and wage restaint  While real wages have fallen slgy, no
significant RER depreciation has occurred so far. Therefore, a continued comim.nt by
Baradian society to a sti policy of fiscal, monetary and wage retaint remains esseal as
well as a consensus on the need to significantly lower real wages. Steps also need to be take



-7-
to improve labor mobility and employment generation through a review of the severance
payment system, of the existing legal framework and practices governing industrial relations,
and through reductions in the level of payroll taxes.
20.  Under the current stabiization progm, Batbados has initiated a reform of its direct tax
system, which will be implemented gradually over the next three years. The new syste. aims
at simplifying and reducing the various payroll aes and levies; lowering the maximum
individual tax rate and harmonizing the indtvidual and corporate income taxes and social security
schemes; and at broadening the tax base to allow for a reduction in taxes on low-income earners.
The maximum tax rate is high (40%) and has to be brought down to the levels prevailing in most
of Barbados' CARICOM partners so that Barbados can compete on equal grounds for new
investment. In addition, Barbados will need a major simplification of its indirect tax regime and
replacement of the various consumption tams by a value added tax. The present consumption
and services tax system iq extremely complex and full of anomalies, and the cost of collecdon
and of ensuring compliance has been increasing. Ihe VAT implementation is also critica to
support the trade reform package by providing a more flexible and less distortional7 revenue
source.
21.  The climate for private investment has worsened in recent years; private invesUnent has
tagnad since the mid 1980s. Enhancing the role of the market as the mechanism for resource
alocation by implementing a more neutral incentive framework along the lines discussed above
is crucial to improve the envient for private sedor development. However, fiuther
streamlinng of procedures and administive barriers wiU also be needed. Key measures
include:  (i) rvision of the bankruptcy law to facilitate  on   of companies;
(i) revision of the land use policy which places very rigid restictions on the sae of agriculrtual
land and allows for a high degree of government discretion; (iii) improvement of the
transparency and autmaticity of the fiscal incentives regime; and (iv) simplification of
registration procedures for new investments.
22. PubLHc Sector Reform. For more than two decades, the pubfic sector has played an
important role in the country's development. Heavy public investment in i cue and
social services contted to underpin rapid economic growth, social development, and a
favorable distibution of income. However, the progressive extesion of the public sector,
including a widespread involvement in commercial and industr  activities, contributed to the
loss of efficiency of public services, crowding out of private investment, and deterioration of the
public finances while increasing the country's levels of taxation. Additionally, over the last two
years, the urgency to balance the fiscal accounts resulted in expditure cuts that have further
deteriorated the quality of publc services and focused excessively on capital expenditue. A
major public sector reform is therefore needed to reduce and reorient the Government's role in
the economy. The main objectives of such a reform would be to: (i) epand and accelerate the
Government's divestment program to include all industial and commercially oriented
enterpnses; (ii) restiucture the level and composition of public expenditure to further reduce
transfers and current expendime, and to increase investment; and (di) stemline the



-8-
bureaucracy and review its fuctions in line with an increased role for the private sector as the
main engine of growth.
23.  The quaity of the pubLic sector In Barbados has tdtionally been very high. However,
recent layoffs and across the board salary cuts were not desgoe witin a co-prehensive review
of the publc sevce. Despite the recent layoffs, some depannts are st1 ovestaffed wbile
others have bee losing senior civil servts. Furhr sg of tu administtion is still
needed. However, actou to reduce the public sectr wage bi1 wil need to be made wthin a
close rview of the futuw role of fte public sector in the economy, and be iplemented in line
with salary movements in the private sector to enable the public sector to retain qualified
perSOnnel in its core functions. In the meandme, selective technical assisco  will b3 required
to stengthen the adminisatin's capacity to implement the structurl adjustment program.
24.   Socia Dimenlous of Adjustmlt Barbados has achieved sdal indicato  compable
to those in developed counies. In addition, the ountry managed to substatialy eliminate
poverty. Life expecncy at birth is about 75 years. Illitacy is vituay noestent, and the
educational level of the labor force is high, with over 70% having at least a secondary education,
and about 50% employed in white coBar work The country's impressive past economic
peformance, togethe with is liberal and comprehensive soial welfar system and well-
developed safety net, contributed to this outcome. However, the welfare system is extremely
costly and somewhat infficient, and it is beng stained by rig  unemployment and fiscal
restaint measres. Barbados' social services priorties need to be redirected to the tmly needy
groups, including the newly unemployed, women, especialy those heading households, and
chidren under age 16. In addition, productivity needs to be incased by sRengthein fg the
educaton system. Moreover, a review of the education ad health sectors, social secuity
benefits system, and the socid welfare age s needs to be unden in ordar to achiev a
more equitable and cost-effective delivery of services.  Improved taget, introducing
reasonable user charges to recover costs i education and health, and a more reasonable
beneits/contibion ratio in the Socia Security System need to be achieved. The isues related
to the education sector are being addrssed by the prposed Human Ruces Project.
25.          ur d Fancia Secto Refrm. The main Is  conronting the agickult
sector is the inceased losses of the sugar industry, which represent 50% of agriculural output.
The sugar industry is in a state of crisis and has become one of the least effie  in the world;
its ouput curty stands at less than half its 1980 level. Production costs are high and the
idustry is heavily indebted and poody managed. Furhrmor, sug  debts have placed the
stte-owned BNB in a perilous financial stae,  enting a ti  s to public confidence in the
financa sector, as BNB holds about a quarter of the baing   vstem toWa  abieles to the
public. Tbe Govenmment has recently begun to implement a bro- Jased plan to rehabilhtat the
industry, modify the land use policy - which sverely resticts the conversion of land to other
uses - and restructure the BNB. Rapid ip       of this program wMi be essential.



-9-
26.  Environmental lssues. Protecting the environment is necessary for tha long-term
sustnability of Barbados' development, as tourism depends largely on natural resource
exploitation. Recent studies point to the degradation of the marine ecosystem, comprising reefs,
near-shore fisheries and coastal areas, mainly resulting from soil erosion and household and
commercial liquid and solid wastes. The Government has a development plan to eddress these
issues and needs to urgently implement an environmental protection policy focussing on the
establishment of an integrated national network of protected areas and national park, new
enviromental legsation, public investment in waste managment, and regional environmental
presevation initiatives. While assistance in these areas is currently provided by the IDB, care
will need to be taken to ensure continued focus on the environment, while undertaking the
broad-based adjustment program required to resume and sustain growth.
B. Bank Assistance and Graduation Stratea
27.   Barbados became a member of the Bank in 1974. Since then, it has received, net of
cancellatons, US$95.4 million in loans for eleven projects. These include assince in the
education, tourism, industry, power, highway and agriculture sectors as well as the financing
of technical assistance to support the Ministries of Finance and Planning, and of Agriculture.
In addition, the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) has on-lent US$6.7 million to Barbados
from resources provided by the Bank. Since 1984, when the graduation stateg was elaborated,
US$35.2 million have been commited for three projects in the areas of secondary education and
taning (US$10.0 million), agriculture development (US$4.0 million), and road main nce and
fhabilitato (US$21.2 million). These projects, together with the proposed Human Resomurces
Project (US$1.8 million) outlined in this report, meet the objectives of the phased grduation
progam, viz., to srengt  Barbados' institutional capacity so that it can finance and implement
f*ture projects on its own. Progress in implementing the graduion program has been slow,
however, due to delays in reaching agreement on the scope and objectives of specific operations.
As a result, about US$20 miion still remain uncommitted under the program. The Government
has requested the Bank to consider uSing the balance under the progrm for a picposed
Stctua Adjustment Loan.
28.  In general, project implen has been satisfactory, thans to the high quality of
the civil service. The ongoing portfolio only includes the three projects aoved by the Board
as part of the graduation stategy. The Second Education Project, approved in May 1986, is
nearing completion; the Agcultue Development Proect, approved in Febnuy 1987, has
progressed satisfctorily, except for slow progress on the credit line due to weak demand; and
the Second Road   eace and Rehlitation Proect approved in May 1992, has only been
made effective recety.
29.  In 1992, the Government reuested the assitance of the World Bank and the IDB In the
development of a c    he  strucural adjustment program to complement the DO
supported stblization efforL The objective of the program is to identify and address the key
structrl issues affecting the economy in order to provide an appriate policy framewok to



-10-
reestablish and enhance the country's growth prospects. After a detailed joint review of the
issues, it was agreed that the World Bank would focus on the incentive framework (trade/tax
reform and labor markets); public sector reform (divestment and public expenditure
ionalization) and the social programs; while the IDB would focus on the reform of the
agricultural and financial sectors and the reglatory fhamework for private investment. The
adjustment program would be supported by two parallel operations by the IDB and the World
Bank, and would be based on an DdF funded stabilization program being in place. On this
basis, the IMP would provide assistance in elaborating a growth-oriented medium-term economic
framework and in monitoring the key macroeconomic parameters under which the adjustment
program would be prepared. Possible Bank support would be provided under a proposed
Structual Adjustment Loan (SAL), and 1DB support through an Investment Sector Loan.
30.   The objective of the proposed Bank SAL would be to assist Barbados in supporting a
growth oriented framewozk over the medium-term, to enable the country to arest its economic
deterioration and provide expanding employment opportunities to its population on a sustainable
basis. Given the close complementarity between stabilization and structural adjustment, within
a sdll fragle macroeconomic framework, as well as the balance of payment requirements that
a growth oriented framework would entail, the Government was informed that continued Il!
fnandal involvement beyond the expiration of the current Stand-by Arrangement at end-May
1993 would be essental as a condition for Bank support. In view of Barbados' relatively high
per capita income, primary recourse has to be placed on the use of IMB resources for financing
balance of payments gaps and to rebuild extemrnal reserves. The Bank's role would be to provide
supplementry financial supo  to facilitate the introduction of key strucural reforms, in
parcular to meet the exter  financig needs asciated with the rapid trade libeion
required. In the meantime, the Bank agreed to provide technical assistance funds needed for the
preparation of the programs of trade lberaliztion, divestment and public expenditure
raionaliation, and development of the VAT proposal through the lpanese Grant Fund and the
Bank's Institutional Development Fund.
31.   Should the Government decide to proceed with the proposed SAL, it would be the last
operation under the Barbados graduation program. It would provide resources to underin a
major policy reform progam and help Barbados adjust its economy to the heightened world
competitive enviroment. It would also entail a continuing policy dialogue with the authorities
over a sufficient period to see the economy turn around. It thus offers the opportuny to see
Barbados graduate under the best circumstances. Should the Government docide not to proceed
with a SAL, however, or should agreement be delayed beyond a reasonable period, the proposed
Human Resources Project would be the last IBRD opeion under the graduation program.
DC and MlGA
32.  The Inteational Finance Corportion's only investment in Barbados consists of an equity
contnbution of US$0.3 million in 1984 in the Caribbean Financial Services Corporation which
finances production ventures m the Caribbean region. The Coporation also provided a loan of



-11-
US$1.25 million in 1986 for upgrading a tourist hotel. The Business Advisory Service (HAS)
of IPC covers the Eastern Caribbean Region from its Barbados regional office. However, recent
activities in Barbados itself have been limited to two small projects -- a wildlife reserve in 1991
and the conservation of a plantation as a tourism attraction planned for 1993 - in line with the
deterioration of the private investment climate. BAS also acts as fmancial advisor in the ongoing
privatization of LAT, the regional airline, in which the Government of Barbados has shares.
Barbados became a member of MIGA on April 12, 1988.
Relations with the IMF and the D1DB
33. The Bank has been working in close collaboration with the DLF and the MDB in the
elabortion of the structural adjustment program required in Barbados. Review of progress and
exchanges of views on competitiveness and policy options have been held at regular intervals
among the three institutions. The IDB is Barbados' most important donor and has a large
ongoing program. The IDB would also complement the Bank's efforts by prepang a technical
assistance operation to support improvements in tax adminion and the implementation of
the VAT. To be successful, the proposed adjustment program will need to involve continued
close cooperation among the hee institutions, in view of the complementarity of the programs
supported by each.
Sunmmay Assessment
34.  Barbados has achieved very high levels of economic and social development, but is
cendtly facing major chalenges in its economic policies to adjust to a changing world
eIent. The policy agenda faiing the country involves a fundamental review of the
incentive framework to improve its competitiveness, and of the role of the public sector in the
economy. The country needs to rm e rapid economic growth in order to reduce the prevailing
high unemployment, and to improve its proicdvity levels in order to maintain and further
improve current standards of living. This requires decisive actions to improve the incentive
system for private sector investment and to strengthen the country's human resource base. In
the short term, the margin for flexibiity is, however, limited, and the country needs to pursue
strict stabilization measures while it undertks the stuctual adjustment program needed.
35. In view of Barbados' economic, social, and institutional achievements, primary recourse
for financial and technical assistance should be placed on Fund and market resources. However,
a coordinated approach by all multilateral institutions may be required to assist Barbados in its
efforts to anrest the present economic decline and to resume a growth path. Thus, flexibility in
the graduation program is requred. Should Barbados decide to implement decisively its
stwmtu  adjusment program, specific targets and objectives covering the whole development
agnda would be embodied in the opeations supported by the IM, the DB and the World
Bank. The ultimate test of this joint effort would be whether the country succeeds in
reestablishing its impressive growth record over the last 25 years on a sustainable basis.



-12-
PART H. THE EDUCATION SECTOR AND THE PROJECT
A. Education and Trlning Sector
36.  In spite of the impressive covere achievements of the post-independence era, the
education and training system stil suffers from problems of quality and efficiency. Qualit
issues in basic education include: weaknesses in instruction, lack of textbook and instructional
mateials/technologies, inadequacies in infstucture, instiutional wealmesses and deflciencies
in the examination and certfication system. The current examinations system has adverse effects
on the curiculum and instrction, and ultimately on the qualit of edc'cation, and on learming
achievement. The Barbados Secondary School Entrance Exam (BSSEE) is sfill used mainly as
a selection mechanism for aRlocating secondary school places, even though capacity is now
considered adequt. At the primary level, the BSSEE tends to restrict the curriculum in the
upper classes to subjects tested on the exam, and to lead to a disproportionate attention devoted
to student likely to do well, to the detriment of the less able students. At the secondary level,
the ESSEE has a demotivadng effect on schools receiving a high proportion of students with low
maris, reinforces the public perception of a pecking order of schools, and results in a substantial
amount of remediation, particularly since 50 percent of the primary school children perform
poorly on the exam. Moreover, the selection at the age of eleven does not take into account that
children develop at different rates. Additional conerms include the relatively low achievement
rates and the lmited certificaton of secondary school grdaes. The education system produces
a small, highly educated elite, while many young people leave school with no recognized
qualificatin and poor functional skldls for coping witb the labor market.
37.   Public technical and vocatonal education and training (rVE1 programs at the post-
secondary level play a pivotal role in the provision of skilled manpower, particularly as the
number and scope of piivate sector training activities are lmited. Ihe qualiy of these programs
is especialy poor, as there tends to be a strong focus on acadmi taining. Qualitative
deficiencies stem from a virl absence of teacher training progams, ladc of access to
instructionlmarials, crculum deficiencies, and lack of pay equity for instuctors. Targeted
taning programs, aimed at youths, unemployed worker, and civil servants, are in ned of
riizaton to meet growing demand. The National Tining Board WINB) has the legislative
mandate for high-level strategic planning and coordiatin of TVET but its activities have been
focused on the provision of basic kils training. Managerial weaknesses and the absence of a
strong insttinal framework for the TVEI sub-sector are reflected in the lack of a national
training pln, dupHLcaon in courses/programs at the post-secondary level, and absene of
promotional campaigns to attact competent candidates. During this period of stailon and
restucuring, it will be increasingly important to improve the coordinaton of WVET programs
and rspiveness to private sector needs. Likewise, complementary efforts are needed to
srgh  public employment services, which cater mainly to the lower end of the labor market,
and to improve the production and dis        of labor market information essenial for
planing purposes. Cognia of these deiciencies, the Government has recently agreed to limit
the activities of the NTB to basic skills training and to establish a Policy Coordinating Council,



-13-
which would: (i) formulate TVET policies, plans and investment priorities; (u) establish
standards and performance targets for TVEr programs; (iii) coordinate the provision of TVET
programs; (iv) advise on the overall resource allocation for TVBT; and (v) administer an
Employment and Thining Fund aimed at financing sills upgrading of unemployed workes and
in-company taining.
38. Public expenditures on education and training have historically averaged about 20% of
the Govemment's recurrent budget, or roughly 6% of GDP, placing Barbados towards the upper
end of the spectrum in terms of educational oudays in the Caribbean, and in the developing
world. Since the recent economic downturn, the Ministry of Education (MOE) recunent budget
dipped to about 16% of the total Government recunent budget. Authorities recognize that in
this environment of fiscal austerity it will become increasingly important to address with
renewed vigor cost efficiency and cost recovery issues. Student/teacher (SIT) ratios in Barbados
are low (20:1 and 18:1 in primary and secondary education, respectively) in comparison to
comparable middle-income countries, where they tend to average about 30:1. During the past
decade, effofts to raise these ratios have not yielded positive results, even though within the last
two years the trend has been improving. At the prmary level, the problem is compounded by
the existence of a large number of small schools, while in secondary education the key issue is
the wide range of subject options provided, partcularly in technical/vocational programs. To
aise S/T ratios, the MOE has now adopted the following remedial strategies: (i) continue the
amalgamation of small, uneconomical schools; (ii) intouce multi-gade teaching; (iii) expand
pre-primary enollments and accommodate a growing number of secondary school students
affected by the closure of private schools; and (iv) concenrte TVET course offerings to upper
secondary and/or to a limited number of schools. Lkwise, MOE officias recognize that while
Erd3stn Teacher Training College has historically played a pivota role in the prvision of initial
teacher taing, its mandate needs to be rvised, in light of the prqjected decline in school
enrollments and the adequate pool of tained teachers. Government has therefore suspended
intial teacher training at the prmary level and has taken the decision to consolidate all in-sevice
teacher taining at Enliston College.
39.   As the Government grapples with the deteriorating financial situation, various iniiatives
ate also being taken to develop new financing poLcies and mmse cost recovery, which now
represents about 3% of the total education rcurrent budget (i.e., texObook rental, petty fees,
evening school fees). In the last year, the Barbados Community College (BCC) has ta   an
active role in elaborating a new cost recovery policy; the Samuel Jackman Prescod Polytechnic
(SlPP) has introduced mateials fees; and the MOE has instituted nominal school meal fees and
raised the annual textbook rental fee in secondary education from BDS$20 to BDS$75. While
the introduction of these measures constiutes an important step in the right direcon, the overal
level of revenues generated remains modest, particularly since the GOB has been reluctant to
introduce fees at the University, even though from an equity point of view this seems essential.
There is now a growing recognition that Barbados will be compelled to join the ranks of
countries which have introduced a fee collection system at the tertiay level, even though
authorities express concerns over the pace and scope of these policy reforms. The priorities at



-14-
this stage are to monitor the impact of the recently introduced fees; to elaborate a comprehensive
cost recovery program (with explicit exemption guidelines for the poor); and to carry out public
iformation campaigns to foster a broad based national consensus.
40. The Govermment's overall education strategy is to improve quality, cost efficiency and
educational opportity. A comprehensive education reform has recently been launched with
the following objectives: (i) replace the BSSEE with continuous assessment exams to improve
learnng achievement; (ii) permit access to secondary schools from the catchment area, which
would lower tansportation costs; (iii) introduce certificates of leaming; (iv) provide a broad
based lower secondary education (up to 3rd form) to increase flexdbility and employability; and
(v) concentrate/consolidate TVET course offerings in upper secondary and/or in strategically
placed schools, which would generate considerable cost savings. The Government's TVET
strategy aims to: (a) raise effectiveness, efficiency and responsiveness of public TVEr programs;
(b) improve management and panning; and (c) encourag the expansion of private sector
training. The centerpiece of this strategy is the establishment of the TVET Policy Cordinatng
Council/Employment and Training Fund (MTM. The ETF would form the pillar of the
Government's strategy for alleviating the adverse effects of the structural adjustment program,
for enabling Barbadian workers to acquire the skills necessary to respond to emerging
opportunities resulting from the economic rstructuring, and for contrting to long-term human
cpital development. The Govermment also proposes to improve conditions for job-seekers by
strenghening public employment services and stining registion procedures, and to
enhance the quality and timeliness of labor marcet infonnation.
B. The Project
Project Objectives
41.  The principal objective of the pmposed project would be to strengthen the country's
human capital base by expanding the availability of trained manpower. Tbe specific objectives
would be to: (i) strengthen the quality and efficiency of basic education, with a view to raising
student achievement; (ii) improve the effectiveness, efficiency and responsiveness of TVET; and
(iii) reiforce employment sevices and labor maikt information. To these ends, the project
would include four components: General Education Support, TVBT Development, Labo Marke
Support, and Proect Admintion.
Project Description
42. The General Education Support Component (US$4.9 million equivalent, including
contingencies) aims to reinforce the basic educaton foundation by improving the quality of
services and raising internal efflciency. This objective is also supported by a parallel-funded
IDB operation. The upgrading of general education would be accomplished through the
provision of: staff taining; textbooks/reference materials (IDB); learning resources;
infrastcure upgading (1DB); reinforcement of MOE institonal capabilities (IDB); as well



-15-
as design and reform of the national examinatis/certificaton system and costs/fnacing
policies. The project would support the expansion of innovative and cost-effective instmctional
srategies such as multi-grade teaching and school-based training. The TVET Development
Component (US$9.3 equivalent million, including contingencies) aims to increase the
effectiveness of 1VET programs tbrough the provision of key inputs to the leaming process
(i.e., instructor training, learning resources, curriculum/program development and insitutional
reinforcement) and to raise eficiency through increased sharing of facilities, expanded use of
program review/evaluation procedures, and introduction of user fees in post-secondary
education. Responsiveness would be improved through the introduction of flexible curicula,
use of contract training, and increased accountability of institutions. A new multi-certification
level teacher training program would be implemented, two teacher resources centers would be
established, curiculum development specialists would be traned, and spport for selective
TVET training programs for unemployed youths and civil servants, and for the establisment
of a BCC industry service unit, which would operate on a cost recoveiy basis, would be
provided. Institutional capabilites would be bolstered by providing assistance to the new TVET
Policy Coordinating Councl/EI for elborating a National Training Plan, performance targets,
and an articulation manual. The Labor Market Support Component (US$0.5 million
equivalent, including contingencies) would provide support for compuPtezing the employment
information and placement system and strengtheng educational and occupational counselling
at the National Employment Bureau, and increasing the capacity of the Manpower Research and
Siical Unit to analyze and disseminate labor market information.  Tlhe Project
Administration Component (US$0.9 million eqpivalent, inchlding coingencies) aims to
strengthen the Education Project Implementation Uni (IU) though local consulnces, staff
taining, and equipmen.
Proect MaEmt nd  nplementtion
43.   Gien the complexity of the proposed project and the number of miniies involved
ducation, Labour, Community Development and Civil Service), and in light of the long
standing experience and good track record of the MIU, this unit would coinue handling
procuement, accounting, and auditing for all project activities. Each minity would make
provisons in its own budgetary alIocation for ependitures relaed to the its respective
components. An Itministal committe, cbaired by the head of the MOB Planing Unit and
comprised of repntatives of the beneficiary ministe, will oversee and monior the
implementation of Xt policy and i nal development activities. The committee would be
reonsible for coordinatng the elaboration of reform measur, preparing anal work
programs, budgets, and bi-nnual stas reports, and paricpating in annual evalutons.
Projec Sudaanbity
44.  At project compledon in 2000, the annual incremental recurrent costs ane estmaed to
be US$1.3 million equivalent, which would represent about 0.2 percent of the projeced
Government recurrent budget, and less than 10 pement of the expected savings from the cost



-16-
efficiency (increases in studenttteacher ratio) and cost recovery (introduction of tuition fees)
measures supported under the project. The Goverment should be in a position to absorb these
modest incremental recunrent costs.
Leons Leared from Pevious BDan Involvement
45.   The Government of Balbados has received two Bank education loans (representing a total
of US$22 milion equivalent), which have contributed to broadening educational oppotuny and
raising quality and relevance, but have fallen short of their objective of improving cost
efficiency. The key lessons learned from the implementation of these projects, which were
integrated into the design of the proposed opezation are: (i) a coherent policy reform agenda with
specific quantitative targets must be elaborated and monitored closely by both the Govenment
and the Bank, (Ii) likages between technical assistance/fellowships and project goals must be
strengthened; and (iii) procurement procedures should be strengthened by involving beneficiary
instutions in the elaboation of technical specifications.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
46.  The rationale for Bank support is that this project would be instrmenl in the design
and implementtion ofpivotal reform measures, in addition to providing an essential complement
to a parallel IDB-financed project (US$14.5 million, of which MDB funding is US$11.6 million)
aimed at improving basic education and isbtionl str ing  of the MOB. Moreover, it
would consoEdate the achievements of the fir two projects, support the Govemmen's educaton
reform initative, and leave in place the framework for improved management of the educadon
and triing system.
Agreements Reached
47.  Diurng negotations, ovel agreement was reached with the Government on the
following documents submitted for approval: (i) sandard bidding documents, design plans,
implementation schedules, and updated cost esimates for all civil work components; master lists
for procurement of equipment, funiture, and books and estimated value of contacts; and terms
of reference for coancies and studies; (ii) draft educain deelopment plan (1993-2000),
which reflects the Government's policy fiamework; (iii) legal provisions for estabshing the new
TVET Policy Coordinating Councl/Bmployment and Tning Fund (MY) and for effecting
changes in the National Tning Board's mandate; (iv) the S-year education publc expendir
program and the 1993/94 budget esmates, which are consistent with the Goverment's
education straty, and reflects adequate levels of counerpat funding and non-salary opeati
budgets for the entites supported under the project; (v) fuotre mandate of Biion College; and
(vi) iutional amngements for project implemention.
48.  As conditons of effectveness, (i) tale all necessary actions for revising the mandate of
the NTB, and for establishing the TVEI Policy Coordinating Council/ETP, with an appropriate



-17-
structure, mandate, and staff, which is acceptable to the Bank;, (ii) adopt a set of regublions,
acceptable to the, Bank for the operation of the ETF; and (fi) appoint an executive director an
administrative and financil officer, and an expert in raining fund  nagement, al with
functions, qualificatons and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
49.  As condWdon of disbursement for project activities related to the upgrading of Erdiston
College, including acquisition of furnimre and equipment, no funds will be disbursed unless the
Bank has received final design plans, cost estimates and technical specifications, all satisfactory
to the Bank.
50.   The following actions have been agreed upon to ensure successful implementation of the
project: (a) submit to the Bank (no later than December 1993) a detailed, time-bound action
plan, safatoy to the Bank, fo ructuing of Erdiston College, wbich would provide for:
implementation of the revised mandate; adoption of cost-effective teaching modes that take into
account the projected demand for in-service taiing; staff reduction targets and discontinuance
of iniial teacher tmining at the primary level; and implement agreed upon acton plan; (b)
submit to the Bank (no later than December 1993) a time-bound action plan for reducing the unit
cost  of  technical/vocational  courses  in  secondary  education  through  the
concentation/consolidation of course offerings in upper secondary education and/or in
staegically placed schools; and implement plan accorig to ageed upon timetable; (c) design
a program, acceptable to the Bank, (not later than August 31, 1996) for the delivery of flexible
training to the private sector at the BCC; and establish a dvision (Industry Services Unit) at the
XCC for admnisting theprogram, which would operate on a cost recovery bads; (d) improve
the internal efficency of the education and tbrning system by progresdvely raiing S/T rados,
so as to reach 23:1 in primary education and 19:1 in secondary education by January 31, 1996,
and maining them above these levels thereafter; (e) submit to the Bank (not later than
December 31, 1994) a time-bound cost recovery progam for the tertiay institutions (UWI,
BCC, SJPP, Enrdiso College), and thereafter implement the program; (f) submit to the Bank
through the TVET Policy Cordinating Council (not later than December 31, 1996) a Nation
Training Plan, prformance trges for post-secondary TVET programs, and an aricultion
manual; (g) submit to the Bank for Its review and approval (not later than January 31 of each
year) the proposed rolling five-year public expenditue program (PEP) for the education and
raining sector, and the evidence of ack    ependiturs incured in the education sector in the
previous year (not later han May 31 of each year); and iplement the PEP; (h) submit bi-amuma
progress reports to the Bank not later dhan July 31 and December 31 of each year, and an anmal
woik program (not ter dthan January 31 of each year); (i) hold anual reviews with the Bank
during the first quarter of each year and a mid-term evaluaton in 1997; and G) maintain the
TVEr Conil, the EPIU and the ne isti Committee with functions, structure and staff
satisfacty to the Bank and opeaoe the ETP in accordance with the regulaions agreed with the
Bank



-18 -
Envionment  impact
51.  The project would have a positive environmental impact to the degree that environmental
awareness themes are integated in the teacher training program, and TVBT institutions produce
trained technicians (i.e., electricians, equipment maintenance speciaLsts) who would represent
a source of manpower for industry and enviromental projects. No adverse environental
effects are expected from the civil works activities to be funded under the project.
Program Objective Categories
52.  The project is under the human resources development category. Targeted assistance
would be provided to youths, unemployed workers, and civil servants through various training
programs. The BTF would serve as the key mechanism for targeting training and retraining
activities aimed at vulnerble group (e.g., retrenched workers or those about to become
retched).
Projet Beneft
53.  The principal benefits of the project are the quality, efficiency and equity gains. Reform
of the national examinations and certfiation system would broaden educational opportunities
and the design/inoducton of cost and financing stategies woudd allow the Ministry of
Educaton to cope with the challenge of increasing quality in light of growing fisca presures.
The establishment of a Policy Coordinating Council would enhance policy, planning, and
coordinating capabilities in the TVET sub-sector wilLe the creation of an Employment and
Tmining Fund would allow the Govermment to address the rting needs of the labor force.
Strngthened employment services would contibute to accelerating labor absolption and
lowering unemployment benfits.
Piroject Ris
54.  The project faces the following riks: (  uncertaty over the macroeconomic
envirnment, which may adversely affect the availability of countear funds, and the reus
to investments in the TVET and labor market components; (H) the potental difficulties the
Goverment may face in addressing poliically and socially unpopular sector issues, such as
redundancy in the teacher corps and user fees; and (iii) the complex and broad scope of the
opeaon. To minimze these  sks, the opeaon would be phased over a 7-year period,
assunces will be sought on the timely availability of Govment funds, sufficient financing
would be provided to carzy out workshops aimed at geneting a broad based consensus for
policy reforms, and an approprate insiuonal agement for project implementtion would
be suported by the project through training and echnical ssisnce.



-19-
Rwommendation
55. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 4, 1993



-20-
Schedule A
BARBADOS
HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Fiancing Plan
US$ Million
Estimed Cosb:
Local Forein Total
A. General Education Support                 1.8    2.2    4.0
B. Tocbnical and Vocaionl                    4.5    3.1    7.7
Educadon and Trabiing
C. Lbor Market Suppo                                  .3     A
D. ProjectAdmistratln                         .8     .1    .9
i. Project Preparation Failt                 .2      .3    .5
TOTAL BASELiNE COm                           24   i   I"
Physical                                    .3      .3    .6
Price                                       1.0     .6    1.6
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                          L       6.9  liS
Note: Columns way not add due to rounding.
US$ Million
gbnb  Prn
Local Foreign Total
Governmet                                    7.8   0.0   7.8
IBRD                                         0.9   6.9    7.8
TOTAL                                        8.7   6.9   15.6



-21-
Schedule B
BARBADOS
EUMAN nISOUtCS PROJCr
Pocurement Methods and Disbusments
Procurement Methods                         (US$ Nolln)
Catepry of Expendtu           ICE      LCB   Otherlg   N.A.          Total Cost
CivilWors                              1.6      -                      31.6
(0.3)    -       -(0.3)
l3Mpm  and Trninf,    2.2    0.9      0.1                   3.2
ipment and Training        (2.2)  (0.4)   (0.1)                   (2.7)
Furnitue                        -      0.6     -        -             0.6
(0.5)            -             (05)
Boaok  Reference
Materials                     -               0.6      -             0.6
-05)     -            (0.5)
Professional Fees               -              0.2      -0.2
TochnilAit                      -      -       5.1      -             5.1
-  -   (2.6)                  (2.6)
Traing                                         1.1                    1.1
-  -      ~~~(0.5)               (0.5)
normntalO  & M                  -                       2.7           2.7
and Staff Sala                     -           -      (0.0)          (0.0)
PPF                             -      -       O0       -             0.5
*  -   (0.5)    -             (05)
Total                                                              5A
Note: ire in pareanthses are do rospecvemounts f ced by the Bank:
N.A.- Not Appcable
LS     o     pOIwhmrocu ptoeodurea inclde Inernafional and loe shopping; mnotiated purchases for bookl and
joumdsl; and ou comfSuvs.
by CatAgory
The loa wM disburs the following percentages, by cabtgory of expedtr:
o      20 pewant of civil wors
o      100 peret of forei   xpeditures of dirct Impoed goods and 8S percent of locally proured
goods suh as equpme and trainn materials, ritu, books and renc materials
o      100 pOrCent of foreign consting sevices
*      35 percen of local cnting servs and prfteiond fes (including architectural and engineern
fes)
e      100 percent of oversea and loal taing   and study tus.
Estbnated Schedule of kbbursenieb (US$ m0lo)
ANNUAL FY   FY93   FY94  FY95   FY96   FY97  FY98  FY99   FY2000
Annual         0.5    0.5    0.3    1.8    1.5    1.8    0.9    0.5
Cumulative     0.5    1.0    1.3    3.1    4.6    6.4    7.3    7.8
Noto: FY93 disburenmts refer to the PPF funds.



-22-
Schedule C
BARBADOS
HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
Tmetable of Key Project Processn  Eents
(a)  Tlme takn to prepare                  14 months
(b)   Pspared by                           - Ministry of Education
- Ministry of Labour, Com er Affairs,
and the Environment
- Mnistry of Housing, Lands, Community
Development and Culture
- Minisy of Civil Service
(c)   First Bank Mission                   December 1991
(d)   Appsal Mission                       June/July 1992
Pbst-Appra  Mission                  Febray 1993
(e)   Date of Negos                        May 1993
(t)   Planned Date of Effectivness         November 1993
(g)   Relevt PCs and PPARs                 Fist Education and Tanig Project
(Lan 1642-BAR)- PCR, May 4, 1989
PPAR, May 6, 1991



Schedule D
STATUS OF DARK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BARBDAOS
.. .... ............ ....................... _.
A. Statement of Sank Loans as of Aprll 30, 1993
.............................................
*----------USS Millfon..
Amrunt
Loan       Ffscal                                                                              (Less Cancellation)
No.         Year      Borrower   Purpose                                                  Sank             Undisbursed
... ........ ........  .......  .............   ..... ..... X.    ......                             ........  ...........
8 toans closed                                                                             52.7
L2680-SAR 1986        Barbados   Education Il-A                                            10.0                   1.6
L27820-BAR 1987       Barbados   Agricultural Development                                  4.0                    1.6
L34930-BAR 1992       Barbados   Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation                       21.2                  19.5
TOTAL nurmber of loans * 3                                                                35.2
Total                                                    87.9                  22.7
of which has been paid                                   43.6
TOTAL Held by Bank and IDA                               44.4
Amount Sold                              1.3
of which has been repaid             1.3               0.0
Total now held bv Bank                                   44.4
_ u=s
Total Undisbursed                                                              22.7
a. Statement of IFC investments as of March 31, 1993
Fiseat                                       Type of                                      --    .  us-   - tMillIfon-......
Year       Oblfgator                         Business                                     Loan      Equity      Total
......     ..........                        ...............                _                         ........    .................. ......... ....
1984       Caribbean Financlst               Finance for productive                                    0.3        0.3
Services Corp.                    ventures in the Caribbean
1987       Town end Comarciat                Tourism                                        1.3                    1.3
Properties (Barbadoi)
Lioited
Total Gross Commitments                                              1.3         0.3        1.6
Less Cancellations, terminations,
participations, sales and repayments                               0.2         0.0        0.2
Total Coamftments now held                                           1.0         0.3        1.3
-     T t su d nspf na
Total tndi8bursed (Including participants)                           0.0



IBRD 24710
North Point                                                       '~'BARBADOS
HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
(/     PRIMARY SCHOOLS
0   'arrison   {                                                         SECONDARY SCHOOLS
Q      NTB SKILLS TRAINING CENTERS
4&     BARBADOS COMMUNITY COLLEGE
A      SAMUELi. PRESCOD POLYTECHNIC
-~ 11    MOE PEDAGOGICAL /ADMINISTRATtON BUILDING
NATtONAL CAPffAL                        l3e15'
o     SELECTED TOWNS
Rolandi                                                               AtPR
tEd.rs/                                                                MAlN ROADS
Bass  \ /         S       /     9
-  t  gJt / 5 .Ut. ~~~~~~MtTabor ~  
i t3 t Y l // i > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1305
1AW ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~4
Queen's                                                                     )    X
BROW:seige,  
St. \StephenJ
. . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R$O                                               4    . MFsQJA ND 8AS(
*[.MX   t   2   3   4   5   6   7   8-A                                       Sl oE c~S  MO
S
MILES'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5'S
o O      i   2i     3      4'~ '                           CAR       N   SF A             BJt   StA
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(S)1 AN t3W                                          ANMI --hDO
am  St W;~~ M.SEWT WUOA
:''~~~~~~~SI .q h;; Sed
t : METdS           -                                                                          'U . SELUEZ U  EF 3  AAO
S~~~~W  (OIL                           VENEZUELA~~~~~~~~~~~~c,mAFvqm(
___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ ___ ___2__    ____4_    __         C A 10  E       E
SEMJACH13



