Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11319-BAR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BARBADOS
HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
JUNE 4, 1993
Country Department III
Human Resources Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



BARBADOS
HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Barbados Dollar (BDSS)
US$1.00 = BDSS2.00 (Appraisal Rate)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AVA              -      Audio Visual Aids
BCC              -      Barbados Community College
BLC              -      Barbados Language Centre
BDSS             -      Barbados Dollar
BIMAP            -      Barbados Institute of Management and Productivity
BSSC             -      Barbados Secondary School Certificate
BSSEE            -      Barbados Secondary School Entrance Examination
BYTS             -      Barbados Youth Training Service
CARICOM          -      Caribbean Community
CXC              -      Caribbean Examination Council
EFL              -      English as a Foreign Language
EPIU             -      Education Project Implementation Unit
ETF              -      Employment and Training Fund
ETTC             -      Erdiston Teacher Training Colege
GOB              -      Government of Barbados
ICB              -      International Competitive Bidding
IDB              -      Inter-American Development Bank
IMF              -      International Monetary Fund
LCB              -      Local Competitive Bidding
MOE              -      Ministry of Education
MOLCAE           -      Ministry of Labour, Consumer Affairs and the Environment
MRSU             -      Manpower Research and Statistics Unit
NACE             -      National Advisory Commission on Education
NEB              -      National Employment Bureau
NTB              -      National Training Board
PEP              -      Public Expenditure Program
PPF              -      Project Preparation Facility
SAL              -      Structural Adjustment Loan
SJPP             -      Samuel Jackman Prescod Polytechnic
SOE              -      Statement of Expenses
S/T              -      StudentlTeacher
TA               -      Technical Assistance
TVET             -      Technical and Vocational Education and Training
UWI              -      University of the West Indies



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BARBADOS
HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
Table of Contents                                        Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .................................    iv
I.      MACRO  AND SECTORAL BACKGROUND   .....................                                               1
Economic Overview   ......................................                                          1
Education and Training Sector Overview    .........................                                 2
II.     EDUCATION, TRAdING, AND EMPLOYMENT   .................                                               3
Key Sector Issues  ........................................                                         3
Primary and Secondary Education ............................                                     3
Technical and Vocational Education and Training  ..................                              4
Costs and Financing   ....................................                                       6
Employment and Labor Market  .............................                                       8
Government Strategy  ......................................                                         9
Bank's Role   ...........................................                                          10
Il.     THE PROJECT   ........................................                                              12
Project Origin  ..........................................                                         12
Project Objectives and Content ................................                                    12
General Education Support .................................                                        15
Staff Training   ......................................                                     15
Textbooks/Reference Materials ............................                                  16
Learning Resources ...................................                                      16
School Infrastructure  ..................................                                   17
Institutional Strengthening ...............................                                 17
Policy Development ...................................                                      17
Technical and Vocational Education and Training Development  ...                     ......        18
TVET Instruction  ....................................                                      18
Learning Resources ...................................                                      18
Curriculum  and Program  Development .......................                                19
Selective TVET Training Programs  .........................                                 19
Institutional Reinforcement  ..............................                                 20
Labor Market Support ....................................                                          20
Employment Services ..................................                                      20
Labor Market Information System Development .................                               21
Project Administration .             ...........................   21
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission which visited Barbados in June/July 1992. The mission
comprised Ms. Miriam Schneidman (Mission Leader), Mr. Bob Freeman (Consultant, Technical Educator), Ms.
Bettina Moll-Druecker (Consultant, Educator), and Ms. Irene Xenakis (Consultant, Architect/Implementation
Specialist). A post-appraisal mission took place in February 1993 and was comprised of Ms. Miriam Schneidman
(Mission Leader), Mr. Bob Freeman (Consultant, Technical Educator), Mr. Michael Gomez (Consultant,
Economist), and Ms. Maria-Victoria Lister (Operations Assistant). The peer reviewers for this project were Messrs.
Arvil Van Adams (PHREE), Robert McGough (ASTPH), and Dave Fretwell (EMTPH). Jacques van der Gaag and
Yoshiaki Abe are respectively the managing Division Chief and Department Director.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
IV.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, AND IMPLEMENTATION.                                  21
Project Costs ...........................................                    21
Project Financing ........................................                   26
Project Procurement, Disbursements, Accounts, Auditing ....   ...........    26
Project Management and Implementation ..........................             28
Monitoring, Review and Evaluation .............................              29
Environmental Impact .....................................                   29
V.    BENEFITS AND RISKS ...................................                        30
Benefits    ............................................                     30
Risks      ............................................                      30
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....                      .........     31
ANNEXES
I.   Project Cost Tables
II.  Project Implementation Plan
III.  Disbursement Schedule
IV.  Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
V.  Civil Works Component
VI.  Procurement Thresholds and Prior Review Requirements
VII. Increasing the Use of Learning Resources Throughout the Educational System
VIII. Multi-certification Level TVET Teacher Training Program
IX.  TVET Policy Coordinating Council/Employment and Training Fund
X.  Selected Documents Available in Project File
XI.  Supervision Schedule
XII. Structure of the Formal System of Education
TABLES
1.   Economic Activity Status of Working-Age Population
2.   Distribution of Labor Force, by Educational Level
3.   Distribution of Labor Force, by Occupational Category
4.   Registrations and Placements at the National Employment Bureau, 1989-91
5.   Education Recurrent Expenditures, 1991-92
6.   Education Expenditures, Total Number of Students, and Unit Costs, 1986-87 to 1991-92
7.   Primary and Secondary School Enrollments and Student/Teacher Ratios, 1979-2000
MAP IBRD Number 24710



- 111 -
BARBADOS
HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
BASIC DATA
Land Area:                                                               430 sq. km.
Population:
Total Population (1990)                                               257,000
Density                                                        598 per sq. km.
Average Annual Growth (1987-91)                                         0.4%
Literacy                                                               99.3%
Academic Year:                                                   September to August
Enrollment (1992-93)
Total Primary Enrollment:                                              27,858
Of which Male:                                                  14,169
Female:                                                    13,689
As percentage of age group (5-1 1):                                  98.0
Total Number of Teachers:                                               1,430
Total Secondary Enrollment:                                            21,196
Of which Male:                                                  11,272
Female:                                                   9,924
As Percentage of age group (12-16):                                  95.0
Total Number of Teachers:                                               1,202
GNP Per Capita (1990)                                                     US$6,540
Government Recurrent Expenditures on Education (1990/91):
As Percentage of Government Expenditures:                              20.0
As Percentage of GDP:                                                  6.0






- Iv -
BARBADOS
HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUtMMARY
Borrower:           Barbados
Beneficiaries:      Ministry of Education
Ministry of Labour, Consumer Affairs and the Environment
Ministry of Housing, Lands, Community Development and Culture
Ministry of Civil Service
Loan Amount:        US$7.8 million equivalent
Tenrs:               15 years including a five-year grace period, at the standard IBRD interest rate.
Project Objectives
and Content:         The principal objective of the proposed IBRD project would be to strengthen the
country's human capital base by expanding the availability of trained manpower.
The specific objectives would be: (i) to strengthen the quality and efficiency of
basic education, with a view to raising student achievement; (ii) to improve the
effectiveness, efficiency and responsiveness of technical and vocational education
and training (TVET); and (iii) to reinforce employment services and labor
market information. To these ends, the project would include four components.
The General Education Support Component (31 percent of total project costs)
aims to reinforce the basic education foundation by improving the quality of
services and raising internal efficiency. This objective is supported by both this
project and a parallel IDB-funded operation.  The upgrading of general
education would be accomplished through the provision of: staff training;
textbooks/reference materials and learning resources; infrastructure upgrading;
and reinforcement of MOE institutional and policy development capabilities.
Staff training aims to improve the quality of teaching, encourage use of
information technology, and strengthen school management. The project would
support the expansion of innovative and cost effective instructional strategies
such as multi-grade teaching and school-based training. Assistance would also
be provided to design, implement, and evaluate the Government's education
reform and cost recovery programs.
The TVET Development Component (60 percent of total project costs) aims
to increase the effectiveness of TVET programs through the provision of key
inputs to the learning process (i.e., instructor training, learning materials,
curriculum/program improvements and institutional reinforcement) and to raise
efficiency through increased sharing of facilities, expanded use of program
review/evaluation procedures, and introduction of user fees in post-secondary
education. Responsiveness would be improved through the introduction of
flexible curricula, enhanced capabilities to evaluate performance and to
design/implement new programs, provision of incentives to post-secondary
institutions to enter into training contracts with industry, and increased
accountability of institutions. A new multi-certification level teacher training



- v -
program would be designed and implemented, curriculum development
specialists would be trained, and materials, resources and fellowships would be
provided, as well as support for selective TVET training programs for
unemployed youths and civil servants, and for the establishment of a pilot
industry service unit at the Barbados Community College.  To reinforce
institutional capabilities, support would be provided for the establishment of a
TVET Policy Coordinating Council, which would, inter alia, elaborate policies
and plans; establish performance targets; design an articulation manual; and
advice on resource allocation.  This component would also support the
establishment of an Employment and Training Fund, under the auspices of the
TVET Council, which would finance sub-projects supporting skills upgrading
of unemployed workers and expanding in-company training.
The Labor Market Support Component (3 percent of total project costs) would
provide assistance for computerizing the employment information and placement
system and strengthening educational and occupational counselling at the
National Employment Bureau, and for increasing the capacity of the Manpower
Research and Statistics Unit to analyze and disseminate labor market
information.
The Project Admninistration Component (6 percent of total project costs) would
provide support for strengthening the Education Project Implementation Unit
through consultant recruitment, purchase of equipment, and provision of
training.
Benefits:            The principal benefits of the project are the quality, efficiency and equity gains.
Reform of the national examinations and certification system would broaden
educational opportunities and the design/introduction of cost and financing
strategies would allow the Ministry of Education to cope with the challenge of
increasing quality in light of growing fiscal pressures. The establishment of a
Policy Coordinating Council would enhance policy, planning, and coordinating
capabilities in the TVET sub-sector while the creation of an Employment and
Training Fund would allow the Government to address the retraining needs of
the labor force.  Strengthened employment services would contribute to
accelerating labor absorption and lowering unemployment benefits.
Risks:               The project faces the following risks: (i) uncertainty over the medium-term
macroeconomic environment, which may adversely affect the availability of
counterpart funding and the returns on education and training; (ii) the potential
difficulties the Government may face in addressing politically and socially
unpopular sector reforms, which may adversely affect various stakeholders; and
(iii) the complex and broad scope of the operation. These risks will be mitigated
by phasing the project over a 7-year period, seeking assurances on the timeliness
of counterpart funding, supporting workshops aimed at generating a broad based
consensus for policy reforms, and establishing an appropriate implementation
framework.



- 1 -
I. MACRO AND SECTORAL BACKGROUND
Economic Overview
1.1   Since independence in 1966 Barbados has experienced stable social and political development and
sound economic management. With output growing at 3.2 percent and population increasing at 0.5
percent per year, the standard of living has risen steadily during this period and is today among the
highest in the Caribbean and Latin America, as reflected in a per capita GNP of US$6,540 and a life
expectancy at birth of about 75 years (1990). Illiteracy is virtually nonexistent in this population of
257,000 and the educational level of the labor force is high, with over 70 percent having at least a
secondary education level, and about 50 percent employed in white collar work.
1.2   Since the early 1980s, however, Barbados' external competitiveness has gradually weakened.
Increases in domestic cost factors, stemming from expansionary demand management policies and
inflexible wages, have contributed to a significant exchange rate appreciation. Moreover, distortions in
trade and tax policies have promoted the development of an inefficient import-substituting manufacturing
sector. As a result, investment in both the public and private sectors has declined, while the high cost
of output in the main foreign exchange generating activities (sugar, tourism, and manufacturing exports)
has led to declining market shares. By the early 1990s, the country experienced serious internal and
external imbalances as the economy fell into a deepening recession, which was exacerbated by weakening
economic activity among Barbados' major trading partners and by a sharp drop in tourism. The fiscal
deficit and Central Bank lending to the public sector reached unsustainable levels and foreign exchange
reserves plummeted to a historical low (i.e. less than 2 weeks at the end of 1990). Real GDP declined
by 4 percent annually during the past three years, and the unemployment rate climbed to somewhat less
than 25 percent.
1.3   To address these economic difficulties and promote financial stability, the Government of
Barbados (GOB) embarked on a 16-month IMF-supported stabilization program in February 1992. The
strategy was to adopt tight fiscal, monetary and incomes policies while maintaining the exchange rate
parity. More specifically, the program aims to: (i) eliminate the overall fiscal deficit in FY92/93 through
revenue generating and expenditure reduction measures (including an 8 percent cut in public sector wages
and the release of 3800 workers); (ii) introduce a restrained monetary policy, replacing instruments of
direct control with a more market-oriented approach; (iii) adopt an incomes policy, which involves a 2-
year public sector wage freeze and recommended wage guidelines for the private sector; and (iv)
undertake structural reforms in the tax system, the Tourism Board, the Barbados National Bank, and the
sugar industry, as well as the divestment of three public enterprises. Most of the stabilization objectives
have been achieved, with significant progress in restoring internal and external balances. Nevertheless,
there have been delays in launching some structural reforms, and increased uncertainties over the
Government's incomes policies, which could affect the viability of the stabilization program.
1.4   To accelerate economic and social development in Barbados it will be essential to also address
the underlying structural deficiencies. Discussions have been underway with the GOB on the details of
a possible IBRD/IDB funded structural adjustment loan (SAL), which would aim to restore
competitiveness, correct internal and external imbalances, liberalize the trade regime, reform the
productive sectors, introduce a transparent incentive system for private investment, remove impediments
to labor mobility, and rationalize public sector expenditures, while maintaining adequate levels of social
sector spending.



Education and Training Sector Overview
1.5    Barbados has attained universal coverage in primary and secondary education, which has been
facilitated by a strong Government commitment to education, a free education policy, and demographic
changes leading to a reduction in the school-age population. Use of automatic promotion procedures in
basic education' has virtually eliminated repetition. In 1992/93, some 28,000 students were enrolled in
primary schools, approximately 21,000 attended secondary schools and about 6,650 were enrolled in post-
secondary institutions, representing net enrollment rates of 98, 95, and 20 percent at the primary,
secondary, and post-secondary levels, which are comparable to rates in the most developed countries of
Latin America and the Caribbean. The allocation of enrollments in post-secondary institutions in 1992/93
was as follows: University of West Indies (UWI): 2,408; Barbados Community College (BCC): 2,352;
Erdiston College: 168; and Samuel Jackman Prescod Polytechnic (SJPP): 1,723.
1.6   Formal technical and vocational education and training (TVET) is provided at two institutions
under the Ministry of Education (MOE). BCC provides post-secondary technician-level education and
training in such areas as commerce, health sciences, hospitality studies, and foreign languages. The
Barbados Language Center at BCC provides foreign language training, mainly to the tourism and business
sectors, and an English as a Foreign Language (EFL) program to regional participants. SJPP offers
vocational and craft level trades programs to lower and upper secondary school graduates in such
disciplines as automechanics, electronics, and plumbing. At the secondary level, courses are provided
in home economics, business education, industrial arts, and arts & crafts.
1.7    Non-formal technical/vocational training is provided by a number of other ministries and by the
private sector. For youths who have limited access to formal education, the National Training Board
(NTB, Ministry of Labour, Consumer Affairs and the Environment) provides short-term basic vocational
skills training, reaching some 500 students annually, and administers an apprenticeship training scheme,
in collaboration with the private sector, for another 150 apprentices annually, while the Barbados Youth
Training Service (Ministry of Housing, Lands, Community Development and Culture) recruits and trains
about 100 unemployed youths annually in vocational trades, arts and crafts, and farming. The Training
Administration Division of the Civil Service Ministry enrolls approximately 425 civil servants in about
30 management and administration courses annually. Private training is rather limited, focusing mainly
on the service sectors, with a small number of private agencies providing courses for adults. The
Academy of Commerce and Technical Studies, Barbados Workers' Union Labour College and Barbados
Institute of Management and Productivity (BIMAP) provide courses in a wide range of subjects such as
bookkeeping, word processing, computer programming, occupational health and safety, and customer
relations. Other training programs are carried out by trade, employer and professional associations. For
example, the Barbados Employers Confederation has a program of short training courses and seminars
in business and management; the Barbados Hotel Association provides courses covering the range from
management to skills upgrading for its members. Some of the larger corporations carry out their own
in-service training but the majority of firms rely on the public institutions for trained manpower since they
lack the economies of scale and in-house capabilities.
1.8    Teacher training is provided at Erdiston Teacher Training College, which caters to primary and
secondary school instructors; at the BCC, which collaborates in training industrial arts teachers; and at
1Basic education is used interchangeably for primary and secondary education.



- 3 -
the UWI, which provides graduate level courses for school managers and certifies university graduates
to become secondary school teachers. The MOE also sponsors courses and workshops for teachers. In
contrast to basic education, training programs for technical and vocational education teachers are limited
in number and scope. Erdiston College, in collaboration with the BCC and the SJPP, provides a
secondary school teacher certification program, which graduates some 16 industrial arts teachers every
two years; and the NTB offers a 1-week course for its own demonstrators. No other courses are available
for BCC and SJPP technical educators.
II. EDUCATION, TRAINING, AND EMPLOYMENT
Key Sector Issues
2.1    Primrary and Secondary Education  In spite of the impressive coverage achievements of the
post-independence era, the education and training system still suffers from problems of quality and
efficiency. This section deals with qualitative deficiencies and disparities while the costs and financing
section below  addresses the efficiency issues.  Key factors contributing to poor quality include:
weaknesses in instruction, lack of textbooks and instructional materials/technologies, inadequacies in
infrastructure, institutional weaknesses and deficiencies in the examinations and certification system.
Primary and secondary school staff are not sufficiently trained to diagnose and address learning
deficiencies and to effectively promote innovative instructional strategies (i.e., multi-grade teaching,
school-based training). This situation is exacerbated by the absence of textbooks (particularly in primary
education) and of innovative instructional materials and technologies, which prevent teachers from using
creative teaching and learning strategies. There is a shortage of school-based library resources, with most
primary schools relying on the services of two mobile library vans operated by the National Library and
on assistance from the Audio Visual Aids (AVA) Department at the MOE. The services of the National
Library are hindered by inadequate accommodations, limited materials and resources, and lack of
computerization. There is a need to establish school-based libraries, which have been shown to play an
important contributing role in raising student achievement and enhancing the returns on other investments,
such as teacher training2. While considerable progress has been made in infrastructure upgrading during
the last decade some children still attend school in facilities of substandard quality. The quality of
instruction is particularly poor in small, poorly staffed and dilapidated rural primary schools, and in
'composite' schools (facilities used mainly by primary school students, but which also accommodate low
scoring secondary students). With respect to institutional capabilities, a number of key areas (i.e.,
education planning, financial management, testing and measurement) remain weak due in part to shortages
of trained staff at the MOE. The absence of a strong MOE planning unit has resulted in a failure to
predict the decline in school enrollments during the last decade, which resulted in the overtraining of
teachers.
2.2    There is a growing recognition among education authorities in Barbados that the current
examinations system has adverse effects on the curriculum and instruction, and ultimately on the quality
of education, and on learning achievement.  The education and training system  relies on two
examinations, (which determine future educational options of students) rather than a series of continuous
assessment diagnostic tests. The Barbados Secondary School Entrance Examination (BSSEE or ' 11 plus
2See Fuler, Raising School Oualitv in Developing Countries: What Investments Boost Learnini?, World Bank, PHREE, 1985;
and Mahar, M.E., The Teaching-Learning Role of Media Centers/Libraries World Bank, 1982.



- 4 -
exam'), and the Caribbean Examinations Council (CXC) school graduation examination open up
opportunities for the 'high fliers' and close doors for most other students. The BSSEE is still used mainly
as a selection mechanism for allocating secondary school places, even though capacity is now considered
adequate. At the primary level, the exam tends to restrict the curriculum in the upper classes to subjects
tested on the exam, and to lead to a disproportionate attention devoted to students likely to do well, to
the detriment of the less able students. At the secondary level, the BSSEE has a demotivating effect on
schools receiving a high proportion of students with low marks, reinforces the public perception of a
pecking order of schools, and results in a substantial amount of remediation, particularly since only 50
percent of the children perform well on the exam. Moreover, the selection at the age of eleven does not
take into account that children develop at different rates nor make any provision for the 'late bloomers'.
A related concern is the mechanism for transfer to secondary schools, that is based on student scores and
preference, and results in heavy commuting, which is reflected in high transportation subsidies.
Additional issues include the relatively low achievement rates and the limited certification of secondary
school graduates. It is estimated that more than half of secondary students fail the CXC secondary school
graduation exam. During 1984-89, academic achievement levels deteriorated, with the success rate on
the CXC English exam dropping from 62 to 40 percent, while that for mathematics declined from 52 to
42 percent. The Barbados Secondary School Certificate (BSSC), which is used as an alternative to the
CXC, has declined in use and is generally regarded as outdated and inappropriate.3 The education
system produces a small, highly educated elite, while many young people leave school with no recognized
qualifications and poor functional skills for coping with the labor market, which contributes to the
disproportionately high percentage of unemployed youth4.
2.3    Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVEI) The issues facing post-secondary
TVET programs are similar to those at the primary and secondary levels but even more acute since there
tends to be a strong focus on academic training. The salient issues can be summarized as follows. First,
the generally poor quali4y of most TVET programs, which is related to weaknesses in TVET instruction;
lack of access to instructional materials; and curriculum deficiencies. Weaknesses in TVET instruction
are attributable to the absence of teacher training programs beyond the basic level, with the exception of
those for secondary school teachers, and to the lack of an appraisal/feedback system. An additional issue
affecting the quality of instruction is the lack of pay equity, which hinders the recruitment of the most
qualified individuals. A study was recently carried out with Project Preparation Facility (PPF) funding
to review the qualifications and requirements of tutors, instructors, and demonstrators, with a view to
ensuring equity within and across institutions, especially as it pertains to recognition of relevant industry
and business experience. The study has documented a series of anomalies which need to be rectified in
order to ensure pay equity.' The consultant report has been reviewed by both the Ministries of
Education and Civil Service, and an agreement has been reached on the need to implement the majority
of the recommendations. Technical/vocational programs are also poorly endowed with up-to-date
instructional materials and technologies and library resources. Libraries at the post-secondary institutions,
such as the BCC, suffer from chronic shortages of reference materials and resources on technical and
3William B. Dockrell, Report on Educational Testing and Measurement, May 1988.
40ut of a total of some 24,000 unemployed during the last quarter of 1991, about 10,000 were under the age of 25. Barbados
Statistical Service, 'Monthly Digest of Statistics", No. 34, December 1991.
5Review and Assessment of Salaries and Conditions of Service of Technical/Vocational Teachers, December 1992.



vocational education which are essential for teacher training, while the SJPP suffers from a scarcity of
audio-visual equipment and instructional supplies which hinders teacher training. Vocational teacher
education reform around the world has recognized the importance of expanding both the teachers'
technical knowledge base and their pedagogic skills.6 Curriculum deficiencies stem from the absence
of staff training, inappropriate accreditation standards, and lack of rigorous program review procedures.
Only a limited number of TVET educators are trained in specialized areas such as curriculum
development, which implies that a number of TVET programs are not designed to reflect local needs (e.g.
some SJPP programs use the London-based City and Guilds to certify graduates). Program advisory
committees are not used systematically, resulting in the provision of courses which do not always respond
to private sector needs. As Barbados begins to move through a period of economic restructuring TVET
post-secondary institutions will have to react expediently, by better catering to the needs of the private
sector, underscoring the importance of effective use of program advisory committees.
2.4    Second, weaknesses in targeted training programs for which demand is increasing. It is expected
that many traditional jobs will be replaced with new types of work during the economic restructuring,
which implies that special training initiatives will be needed to help target groups (e.g., youths, civil
servants). For exanple, the Barbados Youth Training Service (BYTS) is a relatively young program
which suffers from underfunding, and is therefore able to accommodate only a small fraction of the
applications received. Likewise, the Training Administration Division of the Civil Service Ministry will
increasingly need to provide skills upgrading courses to civil servants to deal with changing needs. The
Training Administration Division has experienced a growing demand for its services, which are being
delivered in an effective and cost efficient manner. To permit the organization to increase its capacity
an expansion of physical accommodations will be required. Economic restructuring will also imply that
post-secondary institutions will need to respond expeditiously to private sector needs. The Barbados
Community College has already taken a lead in organizing courses (i.e., computer sciences, food safety,
English as a Foreign Language) on a cost recovery basis. In order to assist the BCC to provide such
services more systematically and on a broader scale, there is a need to strengthen these services and to
establish an industry services unit, which would facilitate the contracting of courses for the private sector.
2.5    Third, inadequate institutional capabUilies in the areas of planning and coordinating of TVET
programs. The National Training Board, a tripartite statutory body, has the legislative mandate which
provides for high-level strategic planning and coordination of TVET7, but its activities have been focused
on the provision of basic skills training programs. The absence of a strong institutional framework has
led to lack of a national training plan, some duplication in courses and programs at post-secondary
institutions; and little follow-up of graduates to determine their subsequent employment experience or to
evaluate the course content in relation to job needs. Weak managerial and administrative capabilities at
some post-secondary institutions (i.e., SJPP) is another factor hindering the effectiveness of TVET
6This phenomenon of 'dual information explosion' has been recognized by Shulman, the Carnegie Forum, and the Holmes
Group as an important emphasis for vocational teacher education reform in North America; see Shulman, L.S. (1987), Knowledge
and teaching: Foundations of the new reform, Harvard Educational Review, 57 (1); Carnegie Forum on Education and the Economy
(1986), A nation prepared: Teachers for the 21st century, New York: Carnegie Corporation; and Holmes Group, Inc. (1984),
Tomorrow's Teachers: A report of the Holmes Group, East Lansing, MI: Author.
7The Occupational Training Act of 1979, which establishod the NTB, stipulated that the organization would 'take such
measures as it considers necessary to ensure an adequate supply of trained manpower in occupations in all branches of economic
activity in Barbados'.



programs. The management of post-secondary institutions need to be provided with more autonomy and
responsibility in the use of their resources and made more accountable in attaining performance and
outcome targets. Finally, no efforts have been undertaken to rectify the generally poor public image of
technical/vocational careers, which represents a constraint to attracting competent candidates. As in many
other countries, most parents would prefer their children to enter white-collar professions or jobs which
require university training. A promotional campaign is needed to inform the public and educational
authorities about the importance and economic benefits of technical/vocational careers and to encourage
parents and students to seriously consider the TVET option at the post-secondary level. Cognizant of
these deficiencies, the Government has recently agreed to limit the activities of the NTB to basic skills
training and to establish a high-level Policy Coordinating Council, under the Ministry of Labour,
Consumer Affairs and the Environment, to oversee the planning and coordination of TVET programs.
Effective coordination will be essential during this period of fiscal austerity, to ensure that scarce
resources are used in a cost effective manner and that priority programs are sustained while low priority
activities are discontinued. The Government has also decided to set up an Employment and Training
Fund (ETF) under the Council, to support skills upgrading of the labor force, and to foster a larger
private sector role in the provision and financing of training.
2.6    Costs and Financing  Historically a substantial share of national resources has been devoted to
education and training, particularly as education is free at all levels. During the past decade public
expenditures on education and training (MOE only) averaged about 20 percent of the Government's
recurrent budget, or roughly 6 percent of GDP, placing Barbados towards the upper end of the spectrum
in terms of educational outlays in the Caribbean, and in the developing world. Since the recent economic
downturn, however, the MOE recurrent budget dipped to about 16 percent of the total Government
recurrent budget (1991-92), which resulted in reductions in primary and secondary education teachers,
the school lunch program, student transportation, and University transfers. Of particular concern are the
meager resource allocations for supplies/instructional materials and maintenance of school buildings8.
Authorities recognize that it will be increasingly difficult to sustain the past level of financial
commitment, which emphasizes the need to strengthen financial planning, improve the efficiency of
resource utilization and expand cost recovery. During the last decade weaknesses in educational and
financial planning have resulted in an excess recruitment of teachers without consideration for cost
containment. In addition to reinforcing educational planning, there is a need to prepare a five-year
education public expenditure program, which is consistent with the Government's education strategy and
budgetary constraints and includes clear targets on internal efficiency indicators and cost recovery.
2.7    Standard indicators of internal efficiency (i.e., student/teacher ratios) suggest that there is
considerable scope for improving resource utilization. Student/teacher (S/T) ratios have been historically
low in Barbados in comparison to international standards, though average for the Caribbean.9 At the
8A recent MOE inventory of the physical condition of all primary schools revealed that about 40 percent of the facilities need
major repairs and/or replacement.
9the Study on 'Access, Quality and Efficiency in Caribbean Education" (World Bank, April 27, 1992) indicated that S/T ratios
at the primary level stand at 29:1 and 30:1 in lower middle-income and higher middle-inoome countries, respectively; at the
secondary level, the median ratio for a group of middle-income African countries was 30:1, in contrast to a ratio of 17:1 for the
Commonwealth Caribbean countries.



primary level, the problem is compounded by the existence of a large number of small schools, while in
secondary education the key issue is the wide range of subject options provided, particularly in the
technical/vocational programs. The recent British Council report "Efficiency and Effectiveness in
Technical and Vocational Education" estimated that vocational courses in secondary schools are at least
20 percent more expensive to provide than academic courses due to the low class sizes and excessively
high unit costs.'° In the context of the Second Education and Training Project (IBRD/IDB), signed in
1986, the Government made a commitment to maintaining S/T ratios above the 1983/84 levels (23:1 and
19:1 at the primary and secondary levels, respectively). Efforts to meet these targets have produced
positive results in a number of amalgamated primary schools. Systemwide, however, the results have
been unsatisfactory. From 1986 to 1989 the expansion in recruitment of primary teachers graduating
from Erdiston College resulted in a drop in the S/T ratio from 20:1 to 18:1 in primary education. Since
1989 the Government has taken actions to stop/reverse this declining trend at the primary level, with the
ratio brought back to 20:1 (1992/93). At the secondary level the S/T ratio has stagnated at 18:1 since
1986.
2.8    The country's fiscal difficulties, the adequate pool of trained teachers, and the projected decline
in the school-age population imply that a continued and intensified effort at raising S/T ratios will be
required. 7he Government plans to raise SIT ratios to 23:1 in primary education and 19:1 in secondary
education by January 1996 and to maintain them above these levels thereafter. By project completion,
the target is to raise SIT ratios to 25:1 and 21:1, in primary and secondary education, respectively. To
this end, the MOE proposes the following strategies: (a) continuing the amalgamation of small,
uneconomical schools; (b) introducing multi-grade teaching; (c) expanding pre-primary enrollments and
accommodating a growing number of secondary school students affected by the closure of private schools;
and (d) concentrating TVET course offerings on upper secondary and/or on a limited number of schools.
This would imply, inter alia: establishing minimum enrollment levels for certain vocational options and
closing down those which fall below these levels; reducing the number of work shops in operation at the
secondary level and expanding access to SJPP and NTB shops; and reviewing/reassessing the operating
days/hours of schools, with a view to improving capacity utilization. The details of the restructuring of
secondary technical/vocational course offerings, which is linked to the broader MOE education reform
(para. 2.12) remain to be worked out prior to project effectiveness. In addition, MOE officials recognize
that while Erdiston has historically played a pivotal role as a provider of initial teacher training, its
mandate needs to be revised, particularly given the exceptionally low S/T ratio at the College (7:1 in
1990/91). Government has therefore suspended initial teacher training at the primary level and has
recently taken the decision to assign the responsibility for the programs currently delivered by the in-
service section of the Faculty of Education of the UWI (i.e., Diploma in Education, Certificate in
Administration and Supervision) to Erdiston College. This arrangement would lower the financial burden
on the Government and would permit Erdiston College to operate at a higher level of efficiency.
2.9    The level of cost recovery (i.e., rental of textbooks and petty fees in secondary schools; and
school fees for evening students and registration fees in tertiary education) represents less than 3 percent
of the total education recurrent budget. As the Government grapples with the deteriorating financial
situation, various initiatives are being taken to develop new cost recovery policies and sources of funding.
With the approval of its Board of Management, the BCC is taking an active role in elaborating a cost
l'The cost per student is highly dependent on class size, varying from a range of BDS$800-940 in a class of 20 to BDS$1600-
1880 in a class of 10; the cost range for a two-year vocational course was estimated at BDS$15,500-18,800.



- 8 -
recovery policy based on the following strategies: (i) expanding course offerings in short self-funding
programs for the general public; (ii) broadening its contractual work for the private sector; (iii)
reviewing/reassessing materials and course fees for evening students; and (iv) incorporating some College
activities (i.e., furniture construction) into the programs of the Technology Division. As of 1992/93, the
SJPP introduced materials fees ranging from BDS$100-500/year depending on the course. In September
1992, the annual textbook rental fee in secondary education was increased to BDS$75 (from BDS$20)
per student, and weekly school meal fees of BDS$1.0 per student and BDS$5.0 per teacher were
introduced. The introduction of these various fees constitutes a positive step in the right direction, even
though the overall level of revenues generated remains modest. In some cases fees have been introduced
in somewhat of an ad hoc manner, without identifying clear exemption guidelines, which runs the risk
of excluding qualified students from low-income families.
2.10   In the case of the University of West Indies (Cave Hill Campus, Barbados), progress towards
introducing tuition fees has been slow. In 1991, the UWI Council launched a comprehensive study on
tuition fees, which acknowledged the dilemma facing regional Governments: deteriorating financial
situations and continuing social pressures to expand access and quality of tertiary education while ensuring
equality of opportunity." The report documents the need to transfer to beneficiaries an increasing
proportion of the costs of tertiary education and proposes a mechanism based on economic cost."2 A
strong case is made for the provision of loans/grants for needy students from disadvantaged socio-
economic groups. The Government of Barbados has been reluctant to introduce fees at the University,
even though from an equity point of view it would seem only fair to ask for a greater financial
contribution from the small minority of students who benefit from higher level training. Nevertheless,
there is now a growing recognition that Barbados will be compelled to join the ranks of countries which
have introduced a tuition system at the University and at other tertiary institutions."3 The main concern
of Barbadian authorities is the scope and pace of implementation of these reforms. The priorities at this
stage are: to monitor the impact of the recently introduced fees; to elaborate a comprehensive cost
recovery program; identify exemption guidelines; design alternative financing mechanisms; and carry out
public information/education campaigns to foster a broad based consensus for the reform measures.
2.11    Employment/Labor Market   In addition to the issues discussed above, human capital
development in Barbados will also necessitate an improvement in public employment services (i.e.,
placement and counselling), particularly to the extent that private employment services are limited in
number and scope and cater primarily to the upper ends of the labor market. Inadequacies In
employment services slow down labor absorption and contribute to the heavy financial burden on the
1Report of the Committee on Tuition Fees, The University of West Indies, June 8, 1991.
12Proposed fees for the academic year 1992/93 was 10 percent of economic cost while for the 1993/94-1995196 period the fee
was 15 percent.
1It is generally recognized that students and parents would have a greater stake in the efficient operation of educational
institutions if they are required to increase their participation. The Policy Option Paper supporz the position of introducing user
fees at the tertiary level, and points out that "students and parents tend to have a greater need to derive value for money when they
are called upon to increase their share of private financing". Likewise, the British Council report "Efficiency and Effectiveness
in TVET' points out that international evidence wuggest that parents making contributions to examinations cost would be more
likely to increase their interest in the courses provided and in the outcome, hence contributing to greater efficiency and effectiveness.



Government, in terms of unemployment benefits. Public employment services have historically focused
on the placement of unskilled and low-skilled manpower in overseas jobs. As the unemployment situation
worsened during 1989-91 the National Employment Bureau (NEB) was ill equipped to keep pace with
the rising number of job seekers, with the overall ratio of placements to registrants dropping from .83
to .19.14  The NEB has been unable to broaden its work program  due primarily to lack of
computerization, a shortage of trained staff, and cumbersome administrative procedures. The Bureau has
been carrying out its work manually, operating out of one placement office, which limits access to some
groups. There is a growing recognition at the Ministry of Labour that the current registration system is
inefficient, to the extent that registration for job seekers and unemployment benefit claimants takes place
at separate locations. There is also considerable scope for expanding the Bureau's pro-active counselling
and guidance activities, which represent an effective strategy for reaching youths. The production and
dissemination of labor market information by the Manpower Rasearch and Statistics Unit is also hindered
by the lack of trained personnel and staff turnover.
Government Strategy
2.12   A draft copy of the 1993-2000> education development plan was recently submitted to the Bank.
The Government's overall educa.ion strategy is to improve quality, cost efficiency and educational
opportunity. To address these three pivotal issues a major education reform has recently been launched
with the following objectives: (i) replace the Barbados Secondary School Entrance Exam with continuous
assessment exams, which would improve learning achievement; (ii) permit access to secondary schools
from the catchment area, which would lower transportation costs; (iii) introduce certificates of learning;
(iv) provide a broad based lower secondary education (up to 3rd form), which would increase flexibility,
adaptability, and employability, in addition to strengthening the general education foundation; and (v)
concentrate/consolidate TVET course offerings in upper secondary and/or in strategically placed schools,
which would generate considerable cost savings. The details of this program remain to be worked out,
in collaboration with the National Advisory Commission on Education, with particular attention to
generating a broad based national consensus on the reform which will have major implications for all
stakeholders.
2.13   In the area of TVET, the Government's strategy includes the following elements: (a) raising
effectiveness, efficiency and responsiveness of public TVET programs; (b) improving management and
planning; and (c) encouraging the expansion of private sector training. The centerpiece of this strategy
is the establishment of a TVET Policy Coordinating Council, which is expected to: (i) formulate TVET
policies, plans and investment priorities; (ii) establish standards and performance targets for TVET
programs; (iii) coordinate the provision of TVET programs; (iv) advise on the overall resource allocation
for TVET; and (v) administer an Employment and Training Fund (ETF). The ETF would finance sub-
projects supporting skills upgrading of unemployed workers, facilitating the job placement of unemployed
workers into private enterprises or self-employment, and expanding in-company training. The ETF would
form the pillar of the Government's strategy for alleviating the adverse effects of the structural adjustment
program, for enabling Barbadian workers to acquire the skills necessary to respond to emerging
opportunities resulting from the economic restructuring, and for contributing to long-term human capital
14While the total number of registrants increased from about 2,300 in 1989 to 6,800 in 1991, the number of placements (local
and overseas) declined from roughly 1,900 to 1,300; for the local market, the number of registrants rose from about 1,300 to
6,500, while the number of placements fell from 536 to 464.



- 10 -
development. The Government also proposes to improve conditions for job-seekers by strengthening
public employment services and streamlining registration procedures, and to improve the quality and
timeliness of labor market information.
Bank's Role
2.14   Bank Assistance Strategy  Since 1984 Bank assistance to Barbados has been based on a
graduation strategy, justified by the relatively high per capita GNP. This strategy, which was approved
by the Board of Executive Directors in February 1984, provided for a seven-year phase-out period
(FY85-91), with an average lending program of around US$9.0 million annually, representing a total of
US$63.0 million." The key elements of the Bank strategy are: (i) to assist the Government in the
formulation and implementation of measures to eliminate the fiscal deficit, increase exports, and enhance
Barbados' access to international capital markets; and (ii) to promote institutional development in those
sectors that are critical for ensuring sustained growth of the economy. Recently, the Bank prepared a
special economic report"6, which proposed a comprehensive reform agenda for addressing underlying
structural deficiencies.   Discussions have been underway on possible Bank assistance for the
Government's structural reform agenda. Since the graduation strategy was launched three projects have
been approved: (i) Second Education and Training Project (US$10.0 million), to upgrade basic education,
improve technical/vocational education and training, and strengthen institutional capabilities (May 1986);
(ii) Agricultural Development Project (US$4.0 million), to promote agricultural diversification and
rationalization of the sugar subsector (February 1987); and (iii) Second Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Project (US$21.2 million), to expand and improve the road network (June 1992). The
proposed Human Resources Project, together with a possible structural adjustment loan, is expected to
complete the graduation program for Barbados. The Human Resources Project would complement and
support the Government's adjustment efforts by improving efficiency and raising cost recovery within the
education sector, increasing the availability of trained manpower, and establishing an Employment and
Training Fund for retraining workers displaced by the economic restructuring.
2.15 Lessons Learned The Bank has provided two education loans to the GOB, representing a total
of US$22 million equivalent. These operations have contributed to broadening educational opportunity
and raising quality and relevance, but have fallen short of their objective of improving cost effectiveness.
The Flrst Education Project (US$12.0 million, December 1978, Loan 1642-BAR)'7 provided assistance
for upgrading and consolidating primary schools, enhancing instruction in secondary education and at
Erdiston College, and improving in-plant training for private sector workers and supervisors. According
to the Project Performance Audit Report (May 1991) while implementation was generally successful, the
15Barbados: Graduation from the Bank, February 13, 1984.
16Country Economic Memorandum: Barbados: Requirements for Sustained Development (Repozt no. 9545-BAR), August 1991,
World Bank.
17Loan 1642-BAR was originally for US$9.0 million equivalent; due to a public finance and balance of payments crisis, the
Governmnent was granted a supplemental loan of USS3.0 million and the, closing date was extended by 2 years in 1983.



- 11 -
key issues encountered were: (i) administrative, staffing, and planning"' difficulties, and (ii) shortages
of counterpart funds, which were precipitated by both cost escalation in construction and technical
assistance, and the economic recession of the early 1980s. These problems fueled implementation delays,
which were reflected in substantial cost overruns."9 As highlighted in the PCR and Audit Report the
main lessons drawn are: (a) continuity and full-time involvement of project staff and their close linkages
to decision makers is critical; (b) price contingencies for civil works must be realistically estimated,
taking into account public and large private investment plans, since small island economies tend to be
particularly prone to price escalation during periods of high capacity utilization in the construction
industry; (c) regular inter-disciplinary supervision missions should be carried out to assess both physical
and pedagogic implementation; (d) educational planning and evaluation needs to be strengthened, with
scrupulous attention given to school enrollment forecasts; and (e) planning of TVET should be reinforced.
2.16   The Second Education Project (US$10.0 million, May 1986, Loan 2688-BAR), financed jointly
with the IDB, aims to improve the quality and cost-effectiveness of basic education, to foster
improvements in the efficiency, quality, and industrial relevance of TVET, and to strengthen institutional
capabilities. Implementation has been generally satisfactory, with a discernible improvement in the
learning environment20. While the Second Project redressed the project staff issues mentioned above,
planning, management, and coordination functions have not yet significantly improved and progress in
strengthening TVET has been slow. This has been due to a combination of factors: weaknesses in
managerial capabilities, an excessive emphasis on civil works and capacity expansion (particularly at the
post-secondary level), and insufficient attention to human resources development and inadequate
implementation of competency based curriculum delivery modes. Changes in site selection and scope of
work have resulted in a significant cost overrun in the construction of a new MOE headquarters building.
Moreover, as already mentioned above, the recruitment of a back log of primary school teachers during
the first years of project implementation has made it difficult to attain the project's cost effectiveness
objective. The key lessons which were integrated into the design of the proposed project are: (i) a
coherent policy reform agenda with specific quantitative targets must be elaborated and monitored closely
by both the Government and the Bank; (ii) linkages between technical assistance/fellowships and project
goals must be strengthened, by improving supervision of consultants and follow-up of recommendations,
and by requiring fellows to produce concrete outputs; and (iii) procurement procedures should be
strengthened by involving beneficiary institutions in the elaboration of technical specifications.
isWeaknesses in planning resulted in duplication of TVET courses and in a failure to anticipate the school-age population
decline, which in combination with the Government's inability to freeze the recruitment of teachers, led to a drop in the
student/teacher (S/T) ratio in spite of the Government's agreement to maintain the ratio above 23/1.
19The total project cost amounted to US$22.4 million equivalent, 55 percent higher than the appraisal estimate of US$14.5
million.
2DNotable achievements in school facility upgrading includes: the amalgamation of 13 smal uneconomical primary schools into
7 larger ones, (with the merger of 6 other primary schools into 3 larger ones expected to be completed by April 1993); the
construction/expansion of 3 secondary schools, with an increased capacity of some 1400 places; the construction of one NTB skills
training center (Sayes Court) and technician level training facilities at the Barbados Community College; and with the provision
of equipment to the Samuel Jackman Prescod Polytechnic, as well as to the other new/renovated facilities.



- 12 -
2.17   Rationale for Bank Involvement The rationale for Bank support is that this project would be
instrumental in the design and implementation of policy reform measures, in addition to providing an
essential complement for a parallel IDB-financed project aimed at improving basic education and
institutional strengthening of the MOE. Moreover, it would facilitate the consolidation of achievements
of the first two projects, and support the Government's education reform initiative.
m. THE PROJECT
Project Origin
3.1    The Government of Barbados made a request to the IBRD and IDB for a third project aimed at
consolidating the achievements of the past decade and at addressing emerging issues. A joint IBRD/IDB
mission visited Barbados in November 1990 to review the Government's project proposal. As preparation
of the project evolved, it was decided that the project would be split into two operations to be
implemented in parallel. The IDB-financed project was confined to general education while the IBRD
loan would support technical and vocational education and training with selective support for general
education and labor market improvements. The IDB Third Education and Training Project (US$14.5
million, of which IDB funding is US$11.6 million) was approved in October, 1992. Preparation of the
Bank project began in December 1991. A PPF of US$0.5 million was extended to the GOB in April
1992 for the execution of preparatory studies which have provided the analytic underpinnings for the
proposed IBRD loan.2" Appraisal of the IBRD Project was completed in February 1993.
Proiect Objectives and Content
3.2   The IBRD and IDB Projects will constitute the backbone of the Government's 1993-2000
education sector development plan, representing over 85 percent of the medium-term public education
sector investment program.' These operations support a continuation of the Government's policy
objectives of improving quality and efficiency and expanding access to 'quality' educational opportunities.
the quality and efficiency improvements would enable the MOE to consolidate the gains from previous
investments while the institutional reinforcement measures would leave in place the framework for
improved management of the education and training system. As shown in the table below the two
projects address the key sector issues in an integrated and complementary fashion.
21The PPF-funded studies are included in Annex X.
22The other projects in the investment program are: (i) Second Education and Training Project (IBRD/IDB); (ii) Hospitality
Institute (EDF); and (iii) St. Thomas Secondary School (Government).



- 13 -
TABLE 3.1: SECTOR ISSUES, PROJECT OBJECTIVES & POLICY MEASURES
SECTOR ISSUES                                PROJECT OBJECTIVES                      [ POLICY MEASURES
GE|NEAL EDUCA'nON
(i) Weaknesses in instruction and teacher traiing and    * Provide staff trauiing to strengthen pedagogcal  * Restructure Erdiston CoUege
lack of innovative instructional strategies        and technical skils and school management.
(ii) Sbortage of textbooks/reference               * Supply all primary schools with textbooks and
materials and lack of instrectional                reference materials (IDB).
materials and technologies for individual instruction
a Upgrade technologicalinstructional resources in  * Appoint a MOE librarian
schoob and libraries by: strengthening Audio
Viual Aids Department; establishing 15 library   * Train 15 library assistants from
resource centers, equipping all secondary schools  existing pool of pnmary teachers
with AVA materials for foreign language trainig;
and reinforcing the National Library.            * Discontinue National Library
book mobile servie
|iii) Deficiences in school infrastructure         * Amalgamate, upgrade and equip 8 primary
schools of substandard quality into 4 larger ones
(IDB).
(iv) Weaknesses in educational management          * Provide assistance to reinforce MOE institutional
and plannin                                        capabilities with regard to educationa planning,
teacher appraisal, curriculum development, testing
and measurement, management information system
design and financia management (IDB).
(v) Use of secondary school entrance oxa  which has  * Support the design, implementation, and      *Implement education reform
adverse effects on curriculmm instruction, quality and    evaluation of education reform program, with a
leaning achievement; and limited certification of  pardcular focus on the nationa examinations and
secondary students.                                certification system (IBRD/IDB).
TlCll  CAL AND VOCATIONAL UDUCA7ION
AND TURADNG
Poor Qua%
*Implement competecy-based teacher training    * Rectify the pay inequites
(i) Weaknesses in TVET ibstucbon                   program and improve instructor appraisa system.    identified for technical instructors
(ii) Poor acces to materials and lbrary resources  * Expand access to leaning resources by:         * Use studens as library
establshing 2 teacher resource centers (BCC, SJPP)   assistants
and upgrading BCC Library.                       at BCC Library
(iii) Curriculum deficencies                       * Stegthen curricular and program design
expertise, and program review/evaluation
procedures.



- 14 -
SECTOR ISSS                    ~            PROJECT OBJECITIVES                                POUCy NMESURES
Wlane m TasU_ed Tra  Peur
(i) Lack of resources for Barbados Youth    * Strengthen training program for youths to enable an
Training Service initiatives, which faces excess   expansion in enroUments.
demand
lii) Inadequate accommodations for Training  * Expand course participants by about 200 annually.
Adminstration Division, preventing an
expansion in courses
(iii) Lack of market dziven progrms, wbich  * Establish and operate on a cost recovery basis an
operate on a cost recovery basis            industry service unit; and expand language training at
BCC.
(i) Lack of an appropriate institutional    * Support operations of new TVET Council, which       * Change legislatve mandate of NTB
framework for planning and coordinatng of   would be responsible for: developing National Training
TVET programs                               Plan, performance targets articulation manual,        * Establsh a Policy Coordinating Council.
promotonal campaigns and managing the ETF.
coMrs AND FINANCING
(i) Poor financial planning                 * Strengthen frnci mangement -(DB)
l  Fumetune and update annuaDy the 5-year education   * Submit to the Bank on an annual basis the
PEP                                                   5-year education PEP and budget submission
for forthcoming year, as well as actual
expendiures for previous year.
Cfi) Low internal efficiency                                                                      * Raise S/T ratios to 23:1 and by 19:1 in
* Support implementation of reform measures aimed at    primary and secondary education,
improving cost efficiency of technical/vocational coures    respectively by January 1996.
in secondary education
(iii) Low level of cost recovery                                                                  * Raise cost recovery to 7% of the education
* Assist in design and implementation of a cost recovery    recurrent budget.
program
IABOR MARKT                                _
(i) Inadequacies in publc employment services    * Design and implement a computerized employment  * Open up two branch offices; redeploy
information and placement system: and strengthen      staff; stream le procedures; and adopt
educational occupational counsefing.                  pro-active policies to generate private sector
(n) Lack of up-to date labor market         * Increase capacity of MRSU to analyze and diseminate
information                                 labor market information.



- 15 -
3.3    The principal objective of the proposed IBRD project would be to strengthen the country's human
capital base by expanding the availability of trained manpower, which would enhance productivity and
facilitate economic restructuring. The specific objectives would be: (i) to strengthen the quality and
efficiency of basic education, with a view to raising student achievement; (ii) to improve the
effectiveness, efficiency, and responsiveness of public TVET programs; and (iii) to reinforce employment
services and labor market information. The project would include four components: General Education
Support (US$4.9 million), TVET Development (US$9.3 million), Labor Market Support (US$0.5), and
Project Administration (US$0.9 million). The General Education Support Component would be
implemented by the MOE, with the exception of the National Library, which is now under the jurisdiction
of the Ministry of Housing, Lands, Community Development and Culture. The TVET Development
Component would be executed by both the Ministries of Education and Labour, with some programs
carried out by other ministries (e.g., Ministry of Housing, Lands, Community Development and Culture,
Barbados Youth Training Service; and Civil Service Ministry, Training Administration Division). The
Labor Market Support and Project Administration components would be carried out by the Ministries of
Labour and Education, respectively. For project activities related to the upgrading of Erdiston College,
including the acquisition of furniture and equipment, no funds will be disbursed unless the Bank has
received final design plans, cost estimates and technical specifications, all satisfactory to the Bank.
3.4    The General Education  Support Component (US$4.9  million equivalent, including
contingencies) aims to strengthen the quality and efficiency of primary and secondary education through
the provision of key inputs into the learning process and support of MOE policy reform measures. The
parallel-funded, complementary IDB Third Education and Training Project strives to achieve the same
objective, with a particular focus on primary education and institutional strengthening of the MOE. The
specific objectives/activities supported under both the IBRD and IDB projects are as follows:
(a)    Provide staff training' (IBRD) to improve the quality of teaching, encourage use of
information technology, and strengthen school management. The project would support
the expansion of innovative and cost-effective instructional strategies such as multi-grade
teaching (which is being increasingly used in small schools in remote areas even though
teachers have no formal training in this area) and school-based training, which relies on
head teachers and principals.' The overall target is to reach about 800 primary and
secondary school teachers (representing 30 percent of the total) and 100 MOE education
officers, school counsellors, and principals. Specific activities to be carried out include:
(i) Strengthen pedagogical techniques through the provision of courses (e.g., special
education, diagnostic assessment, remediation); and the development and delivery of
special education programs at Erdiston College;
2This sub-component has been designed partly based on the results of a PPF-funded teacher training needs assessment survey;
Newton, E.H., In-Service Teacher Trainine Needs at the Primary and Secondary Levels in the Barbados Education System, UWI
Faculty of Edueation, December 1992.
24Lockheed, M. and Verspoor, A., Policy Options in Primary Education, World Bank, 1990; and Raudenbush, S. et al., On-
the-job Improvements in Teacher Competency: Policy Options and their effects on Teaching and Learning in Thailand, College of
Education, Michigan State University, 1991.



- 16 -
(ii) Upgrade/provide training in early childhood education, to facilitate an expansion of
pre-primary enrollment;
(iii) Deliver courses in selective subjects (e.g., remedial reading, information technology,
library resources, and environmental education); and sponsor related study tours for
tutors; and
(iv) Introduce a course in instructional leadership at Erdiston College, which addresses
multi-grade teaching, school-based training, school management, supervision, and
academic/guidance counselling; and
(v) Upgrade Erdiston College, including the acquisition of furniture and equipment.
(b)    Supply all primary schools with textbooks/reference materials (IDB), which incorporate
recently revised curriculum.
(c)    Upgrade learning resources' (IBRD) in schools and libraries, with a view to improving
learning achievement and increasing opportunities for self development. The project
would assist by strengthening the capabilities of the Audio Visual Aids (AVA)
Department to serve as the 'nerve center' for dissemination of technologies and
instructional resources to all primary and secondary schools, to provide staff training, and
to carry out its school-based equipment maintenance program; and by supporting the
establishment of 15 satellite library resource centers expected to serve the remaining
network of 75 primary schools. Annex VII presents the strategies and actions to be
pursued in a schematic form. The Government has agreed to appoint a librarian, who
would provide professional leadership, support and guidance to the MOE program; to
place a library assistant at each of the 15 library resource centers in time for initiating
acivities, by drawing from the existing pool of primary teachers; and to phase out the
National Library mobile book service by project completon. The following specific
activities have been identified for support:
(i) Strengthen the AVA Department in order to facilitate access of all primary and
secondary schools to the central collection of AVA resources, and to improve the
efficiency of print materials production; to this end, funding will be provided for
hardware (i.e., audio-visual equipment), software (i.e., books, reference and instructional
materials), and related training, as well as furniture and typesetting/printing equipment
for the central department;
(ii) Establish and equip library resource centers at 15 primary schools (10 of which were
constructed under the Second Education and Training Project) by providing appropriate
hardware (e.g., computers) and software and integrating the bookstock from the National
2$1his sub-component has been largely designed to address deficiencies identified in a material needs assessment surwvy of
school peronnel which was carried out by the MOE Audio Visual Aids Department. The evaluation indicated that there are
shortages of enrichment and curriculum-centered materials, print and non-print materials, and special education materials.



- 17 -
Library mobile service into the new centers; as well as supplying a basic package of
audio visual equipment to all primary schools;
(iii) Equip all 22 secondary schools with audio-visual equipment and interactive
instructional materials for teaching foreign languages (e.g., French and Spanish), and
provide related training; and
(iv) Reinforce the capacity of the National Library to provide non-formal educational
opportunities to the general public through the provision of computers, books/reference
materials, furniture and overseas fellowships.
(d)   Improve school infrastructure (IDB) through the amalgamation of 8 small, uneconomic
primary schools into 4 larger facilities; and furnish with books, instructional aids and
computers; facilities have been selected based on their substandard status, in order to
rectify inequities in educational opportunities.
(e)    Strengthen MOE institutional capabilities (IDB) in the areas of education planning,
teacher appraisal, curriculum development, testing and measurement, management
information system development and financial management; to these ends, funding is
provided for technical assistance, staff training, and computer equipment.
(f)    Reinforce MOE policy development capabilities (IBRD/IDB) by:
(i) Supporting the design, implementation, and evaluation of the Government's education
reform program. Particular attention would be devoted to the reform of the national
examinations/certification system and of technical/vocational course offerings in
secondary education. Government plans to establish a testing and measurement unit at
the MOE, to support the design and implementation of alternative exams and the
introduction of a new secondary school certificate. The National Advisory Commission
on Education would be reinforced to accelerate the elaboration of policy proposals and
to enable it to organize national seminars/workshops aimed at generating broad based
support for the MOE education reform program. Assistance would also be provided for
monitoring and evaluating the impact of various initiatives supported under the project
(e.g., multi-grade and school-based teaching; TVET instruction; instructor feedback and
evaluation; program review/evaluation procedures). The project would provide funding
for technical assistance, studies, and workshops/seminars; and
(ii) Assisting in the design and implementation of a comprehensive cost recovery program, and
a rolling 5-year education public expenditure program (PEP). The cost recovery program would
standardize fees across tertiary institutions, include clear exemption guidelines, and provide for
alternative financing mechanisms; this would be accomplished through the provision of technical
assistance and workshops/seminars to generate a broad based national consensus.  The
Government's target is to raise cost recovery to about 7percent of the education recurrent budget
by project completion. 7he Government has agreed to submit for IBRD approval on an annual
basis the proposed 5-year PEP (no later than end January), as well as the actual expenditures
for the preceding year (no later than end May).



- 18 -
3.5     Recognizing that technical/vocational training and skills development will have a major role in
the restructuring of the economy, the TVET Development Component (US$9.3 million equivalent,
including contingencies) aims to increase the effectiveness, efficiency', and responsiveness of TVET
programs, consolidating gains from the capacity expansion of the last decade. The effectiveness of TVET
programs would be raised through the provision of key inputs to the learning process (i.e., instructor
training, learning materials, curriculum/program improvements and institutional reinforcement). Internal
efficiency would be improved, inter alia, through: increased sharing of facilities and resources; expanded
use of program review/evaluation procedures and articulation agreements, which will weed out programs
no longer in demand; and program mergers (i.e., in-service program of the Faculty of Education of the
UWI with Erdiston College; Erdiston's industrial arts program with BCC). External efficiency would
also be improved, to the extent that user fees are being introduced in post-secondary education, and that
contract training would be used by the Employment and Training Fund and piloted at an industry service
unit at the BCC. Responsiveness would be improved through the introduction of flexible curricula,
enhanced capabilities to evaluate performance (of both staff and institutions) and to design new programs,
provision of incentives to post-secondary institutions to enter into training contracts with industry, and
increased accountability of institutions. Support would be provided to:
(a)     Improve the quality of TVET instruction at the secondary and post-secondary levels
through the design, implementation, and evaluation of a new multi-certification level
competency-based teacher training program and development of a cadre of teacher
trainers at the BCC2'; and improvement of the instructor appraisal and feedback system
at the BCC and SJPP"; to this end, the project would fund instructional aids and
supplies, local and foreign consultancies, study tours, overseas fellowships, and
workshops.
(b)     Expand access to learning resources (e.g., instructional materials and library resources)
for staff and students by:
(i) Establishing and equipping two teacher resource centers at the post-secondary TVET
institutions. Increased access to instructional materials should improve curriculum
content and course delivery, as well as generate economies of scale through the
concentration of resources at these centers. The project would fund the establishment of
a teacher resource center at the BCC, which would also be used by secondary school
students; and a self-help audio-visual resource center for the SJPP. The teacher resource
centers would be established in existing facilities; and
75Effectiveness refers to the degree to which outcomes of the TVET programs are attained (i.e., learning achievements, match
between training and market needs) and efriciency is defined as the extent to which costs are minimized (a more efficient TVET
system will obtain more output for a given set of inputs).
27The Government will be granting the BCC authority to award the Diploma and B.Ed. levels of the multi-certification TVET
teacher training program; a detailed description of the main elements of the teacher training program is included in Annex VIII.
28The recommendations stemming from a 1989 report on teacher assessment in primary and secondary education would be
used as a starting point for the development of a comprehensive system of performance review and feedback for TVET instructors;
see Appraisal Committee, Report of the Committee on the Appraisal of Teaching, June 30, 1989.



- 19 -
(ii) Upgrading the BCC Library. To this end, the project would provide funding for
rehabilitation of the facility, computerization, establishment of on-line access to other
libraries, equipment (i.e., audio-visual), books, instructional materials, furniture, and
staff training. 7he BCC has agreed to use students as library assistants, in order to
minimize the recurrent cost burden.
(c)    Strengthen curriculum and program development capabilities by:
(i) Developing curriculum and evaluation design and materials development expertise at
the BCC and SJPP for two faculty members who would subsequently act as facilitators;
this would be accomplished through support of one foreign fellowship for each
institution, short-term foreign consultancy and a series of curriculum and instructional
design workshops, which would emphasize methods of integrating academic outcomes
with vocational skill competencies; and
(ii) Strengthening program review/evaluation procedures, including establishment and
systematic use of program advisory committees at the SJPP and BCC; to this end, the
project would fund foreign consultancies and workshops.
(d)    Revitalize and strengthen selective TVET programs by:
(i) Furnishing equipment, furniture, materials, and technical assistance to the Barbados
Youth Training Service, which would provide arts & crafts training programs;
(ii) Expanding the number of course participants in the Training Administration Division
of the Civil Service Ministry by about 200 annually, which would represent a 50 percent
enrollment increase, and strengthening operational efficiencies through centralization of
training courses, two additional on-site classrooms, instructional equipment and resource
materials, overseas fellowships for instructors, consultancies in impact evaluation and in
teaching specialized topics;
(iii) Establishing a pilot industry service unit?' at the BCC, which would design and
deliver flexible short-term technical training programs to meet immediate needs of
industry; to this end, the project would fund local consultancies, furniture and equipment;
and
(iv) Upgrading and equipping the BCC Language Center with computers, specialized
audio-visual equipment, mini labs, and instructional materials; providing local training
for language tutors and professional staff; and supplying technical assistance for program
promotion and evaluation.
29A pre-feasibility study on the establishment of an industry service unit at the BCC has recently been completed by BIMAP.
The study suggested that the key target groups for contract training should be companies with no in-house training capabilities and
those launching new ventures; and that costs should be set in a manner to ensure full cost recovery.



- 20 -
(e)    Reinforce TVEI institutional capabilities by:
(i) Supporting the operations of the new TVET Policy Coordinating Council/ETF"0
through the provision of short and long-term technical assistance, seminars/workshops,
equipment, furniture, and study attachments. The Council would be responsible for
developing a National Training Plan, setting performance targets, elaborating an
articulation manual (which documents inter-institutional agreements and procedures on
transfer of credits between TVET programs), and carrying out a promotional campaign
to improve the public's image of technical/vocational work and to attract high quality
students. The Council would manage the ETF, which aims to expand in-company
training and support priority training programs for vulnerable groups;
(ii) Carrying out customized skill building workshops for TVET managers and
administrators; and developing a specialized course in education management and
administration for TVET managers and administrators at the BCC; and
(iii) Conducting research to monitor and evaluate the impact of the TVET programs.
Tracer studies would document placement rates, duration of job search, and employment
history, with a view to clarify the labor supply functions for particular occupation/skills
and the adequacy of training activities. A management development study would
determine the needs of technical/vocational managers.
3.6    The key objective of thc Labor Market Support Component (US$0.5 million equivalent,
including contingencies) is to strengthen employment services and labor market information through
computerization of the National Employment Bureau (NEB), improved counselling services, and
production and timely dissemination of labor market information by the Manpower Research and Statistics
Unit (MRSU). The improvements in public employment services would contribute to faster labor
reabsorption and reduced unemployment benefits.3" The Government has decided to restructure the NEB
through: establishment of two additional branches, redeployment of staff, streamlined registration
procedures, which would involve establishing a 'one stop shop 'forjob seekers and unemployment benefit
claimants, and adoption of pro-active policies to generate private sector business. The project would
provide funding to:
(a)    Strengthen employment services by computerizing the employment information and
placement system and by expanding educational and occupational counselling for youths
and adults through the provision of technical assistance, computer equipment and
software, and staff training.
30Annex IX provides a description of the Council's proposed mandate, structure and resources.
31Empirical evidence has illustrated that improved public employment services represent a cost offective manner to expedite
the redeployment of labor; see 'Developing Effective Employment Services", World Bank, June 2, 1992.



- 21 -
(b)    Increase the capacity of the MRSU to analyze labor market information, to conduct
labor market research, and disseminate findings to policy makers and to the TVET Policy
Coordinating Council in a timely manner; to this end, the project would provide short-
term overseas fellowships in manpower planning, short-term technical assistance, and
computer equipment/materials.
3.7    The key objective of the Project Administration Component (US$0.9 million equivalent,
including contingencies) is to strengthen the project's implementation framework by supporting the
Education Project Implementation Unit (EPIU). The EPIU, which is expected to have the overall
responsibility for project implementation, will be reinforced through the redeployment of MOE staff,
recruitment of short-term, local consultants, and purchase of equipment and provision of training (e.g.,
word processing, computer sciences). The Government has agreed to reassign a Project Educator to the
EPIU and to re-activate the post of Training Officer, which would correspond with the launching of the
project's training actvities component.
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
Project Costs
4.1    The total cost of the project (net of taxes and duties) is estimated at BDS$31.2 million or
US$15.6 nillion equivalent, of which the PPF represents US$0.5 million. The allocation, by ministry,
is as follows: Education: 62 percent; Labour, Consumer Affairs, and the Environment: 25 percent;
Housing, Lands, Community Development and Culture: 8 percent; and Civil Service: 5 percent. The
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$6.9 million, representing 44 percent of the total project
cost. Tables 4.1 and 4.2 summarize the estimated costs by project component and by category of
expenditure, respectively. A detailed breakdown of project costs is presented in Annex I.
4.2    Basis of Cost Estimates32 Costs for civil works, equipment, furniture, and materials are based
on revised estimates provided by the Government. Training costs are estimated based on comparable
activities funded under the on-going education project.
4.3    Customs Duties and Taxes All imported and locally purchased materials and goods would be
exempted from customs duties and taxes.
4.4    Contingencies Allowances Total contingencies are estimated at US$2.2 million equivalent, which
represents 16 percent of the base cost. Physical contingencies (US$0.6 million equivalent) are estimated
at 5 percent for all categories of expenditures except recurrent costs. Price contingencies (US$ 1.6 million
equivalent) represent 12 percent of the base cost.33
32Base costs are expressed in Barbados FY 1992/93 prices.
33The following assumptions were made with regard to annual price incrase. during the life of the project: foreign: 3.9
percert; and local, by year: 4, 4.7, 5.5, 3.5 and 3.5 percent.



- 22 -
Table 4.1: SUIMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COIPOMENT
% Total
Project Component/                          BDSS Million                USS Million                % Foreign   Base
Subcomponent                         LocaL   Foreign  Total    Local   Foreign   Total             Exchange    Costs
A. General Education Support
1.  Staff Training                 1.7      1.2       2.9       0.9      0.6     1.4              41         11
2.  Learning Resources             1.2      3.3       4.5       0.6      1.6    2.2               73         16
3.  PoLicy Development             0.6      0.0       0.6       0.3      0.0     0.3               0          2
Sub-Total                             3.5      4.5       8.0        1.8      2.2    4.0              56         30
B. TVET Develop Int
1. TVET Instruction                0.7      0.8       1.5       0.3      0.4     0.8             55            6
2. Learning Resources              1.3      2.3       3.6       0.6      1.2     1.8             64           13
3. Curriculun & Progr. Devel.   0.3         0.2       0.5       0.2      0.1     0.3             34            2
4. Selective TVET Programs         1.9      1.9       3.8       0.9      1.0      1.9             51          14
5. Institutional Development    4.9         1.0       5.9       2.5      0.5    3.0               17          22
Sub-Total                             9.1      6.2      15.3       4.5       3.1     7.7             41          57
C. Labor Market Support
1. Employment Services             0.1      0.4       0.5       0.0      0.2     0.2             85            2
2. Labor Market Information        0.1      0.2       0.3       0.1      0.1     0.2             66            1
Sub-Total                             0.2      0.6       0.8       0.1       0.3     0.4             77           3
0. Project Prep./Administr.           1.5      0.2       1.7       0.8       0.1     0.9             12           6
E. Proj. Preparation FaciLity         0.5      0.5       1.0       0.2      0.3      0.5             53           4
Total BASELINE COSTS                 14.8     12.1      26.8       7.4      6.0    13.4              45         100
Physical Contingencies              0.6      0.6       1.1       0.3      0.3     0.6             50            4
Price Contingencies                 2.1      1.1       3.2       1.0      0.6     1.6             35           12
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  17.4    13.8       31.2       8.7      6.9   15.6               U          116
Note:  Totals may not add due to rounding.
Source: Annex I



- 23 -
Table 4.2: SUGMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPEDITLRE
%Total
BOSS Million                USS Million              % Foreign    Base
Category of Expenditure             Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total         Exchange      Costs
1.  Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                     1.5      1.2      2.7      0.7      0.6       1.3          45          10
B. Equipment                      0.2      4.6       4.9      0.1      2.3       2.4          95          18
C. Furniture                      0.4      0.6       1.0      0.2      0.3       0.5          60           4
D. Books & Reference Materials  0.1         1.0      1.0      0.0      0.5       0.5          95           4
E. Training Materials             0.0      0.6       0.6      0.0      0.3       0.3          95           2
F. Professional Fees              0.4      0.0       0.4      0.2      0.0       0.2           0           1
G. TechnicaL Assistance
1. Foreign Consultancies       0.6      1.7       2.2      0.3      0.8      1.1           75           8
2. Local Consultancies         6.3      0.0       6.3      3.2      0.0      3.2            0          24
Subtotal                    6.9      1.7       8.6      3.4     0.8       4.3           20          32
H. Training
1. Local Training              0.9      0.0       0.9      0.5     0.0       0.5            0           4
2. Overseas Training           0.0      0.6       0.7      0.0      0.3      0.3           95           3
3. Study Tours                 0.1      0.2       0.3      0.0      0.1      0.1           80           1
Subtotal                    1.0      0.9       1.9      0.5     0.4       0.9           46           7
I. Project Preparation Facility 0.5        0.5       1.0      0.2      0.3      0.5           53           4
Total Investment Costs            10.9    11.1      22.0      5.5      5.5      11.0          50          82
1I. Recurrent Costs
A. Operation & Maintenance         1.3      1.0      2.3      0.6      0.5       1.1          43           8
B. Staff Salaries                 2.0      0.0       2.0      1.0      0.0       1.0           0           8
C. Project Preparation            0.5      0.0       0.5      0.3      0.0       0.3           0           2
Total Recurrent Costs             3.9      1.0       4.8      1.9      0.5       2.4          20          18
Total Baseline Costs              14.8    12.1      26.8      7.4      6.0      13.4          45         100
Contingencies
Physical                            0.6     0.6       1.1      0.3      0.3       0.6          50           4
Price                               2.1      1.1      3.2      1.0      0.6       1.6          35          12
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                   17.4    13.8      31.2      8.7      6.9      15.6          44         116
Note: Totals may not add due to rounding.
Source: Annex I



- 24 -
Table 4.3: FINANCIMG PLAN
(US$ Million)
GOB                IBRD             Total
Category of Expenditure             Amount    e         Amount     W          Amount
Civil works                          1.3      80          0.3      20           1.6
Equipment & Training Materials       0.5      15          2.7       85          3.2
Furniture                            0.1      15          0.5       85          0.6
Books & Reference Materials          0.1      15          0.5       85          0.6
Professional Fees                    0.1      65          0.1      35           0.2
Technical Assistance
Local                            2.5      65          1.3      35           3.8
Foreign                          0.0       0          1.3     100           1.3
Training
Local                            0.6    100           0.0       0           0.6
Fellowships & Study Tours        0.0       0          0.5    100            0.5
O & M and Salaries                   2.7    100           0.0        0          2.7
PPF                                  0.0       0          0.5    100            0.5
TOTAL    50U         7.8      5          15.6
Note: Totals may not add due to rounding



-25 -
Table 4.4: PROCOREMNTr METHODS
(US$ Million)
Category of Expenditure       ICB         LCB         Other/A   N.A.       Total
Cost/k
Civil Works                     -          1.6          -        -          1.6
(0.3)        -         -        (0.3)
Equipment and Training        2.2          0.9         0.1       -          3.2
materials                   (2.2)       (0.4)       (0.1)      -         (2.7)
Furniture                       -          0.6          -        -          0.6
(0.5)                  -        (0.5)
Books & Reference               -           -          0.6        -         0.6
materials                                            (0.5)       -        (0.5)
Professional Fees               -           -          0.2       -          0.2
(0.1)      _         (0.1)
Technical Assistance            -           -          5.1        -5.1/
-        (2.6)       -         (2.6)
Training                        -           -          1.1        -         1.1/d
(0.5)                (0.5)
Incremental 0 & M              -            -                    2.7        2.7
and Staff Salaries            -            -           -        (0.0)     (0.0)
PPF                             -           -          0.5         -        0.5
-  -     (0.5)        -        (0.5)
Total                    2.2           3.1         7.6       2.7       15.6
(2.2)        (1.2)       (4.4)      (0.0)     (7.8)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
Totals may not add due to rounding.
N.A. - Not Applicable
/a    Other procurement procedures include: international and local shopping (including
a US$20,000 civil works contract); negotiated purchases for books and journals
(US$0.2 million in aggregate); and consulting services.
/b    Totals represent total estimated costs per category including physical and price
contingencies.
/c    Foreign consultancies: US$1.3 million; local consultancies: US$3.8 million.
ad   Local training: US$0.6 million; overseas training: US$0.5 million.



- 26 -
4.5    Foreign Exchange Component The foreign exchange component of US$6.9 million is calculated
on the basis of the following foreign exchange proportions: (a) civil works: 45 percent; (b) equipment,
books and training materials: 95 percent; (c) furniture: 60 percent; (d) foreign consultants: 75 percent;
(e) overseas fellowships: 95 percent; and (g) overseas study tours: 80 percent.
4.6   Incremental Recurrent Costs Total incremental recurrent costs generated over the project's life
are estimated at US$2.7 million (including contingencies), which would add an average of US$0.5 million
annually in recurrent expenditures, increasing from US$0.4 million in 1993/94 to US$0.8 million in
1997/98. These costs include: additional staff, supplies and materials, operation and maintenance costs
for renovated facilities.' A concerted effort has been made to minimize the incremental recurrent cost
burden of the proposed project by: (i) supporting reform measures (e.g., increases in student/teacher
ratios and in cost recovery); (ii) using school-based training schemes which rely on training a core group
of resource people; (iii) retraining primary school teachers as library assistants to staff the school-based
libraries; (iv) recruiting students to assist in the operations of the BCC Library; (v) establishing an
industry services unit at the BCC, which would promote contract training on a cost recovery basis; and
(vi) strengthening the capacity of the BCC Language Center to expand its income-generating activities.
At project completion in 2000, the annual incremental recurrent costs generated by the operation are
estimated to be about US$1.3 million equivalent, which would represent about 0.2 percent of the
projected Government recurrent budget, and less than 10 percent of the expected gains from the cost
efficiency and cost recovery measures supported under the project.
Project Financing
4.7     The proposed Bank loan would be US$7.8 million equivalent, including a PPF of US$0.5
million, and would cover 100 percent of foreign costs (net of taxes) and about US$0.9 million of local
costs. The balance of US$7.8 million would be funded by the Government. The financing plan is
presented in table 4.3.
Project Procurement, Disbursements, Accounts and Auditing
4.8    Procurement  Barbados' public procurement procedures are generally consistent with Bank
procurement guidelines and policies. The procurement record under the previous education projects has
been positive. The Government confirmed use of standard bidding documents, acceptable to the Bank,
during negotiations. Procurement procedures to be followed for each category of expenditure are
described below and presented in Table 4.4.
(a)   Civil Works (US$1.6 million equivalent, including contingencies) consists of the minor
rehabilitation of six facilities.35 Civil works contracts above US$0.9 million would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) according to Bank
341ncremental salaries were calculated based on the standard government salary structure while the operating and maintenance
costs for equipment and civil works were assumed to be 10 and 3 percent, respeively.
35Annex V contains a description of the civil works activities to be funded under each component.



- 27 -
guidelines. Contracts between US$50,000 and US$0.9 million would be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures. Interested foreign bidders would be
allowed to bid. Minor civil works packages valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent, and
aggregated up to US$50,000, would be awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from at least three eligible contractors.
(b)  Equipment, Furniture, Books and Materials Equipment and furniture (US$3.8 million
equivalent, including contingencies) contracts would be grouped, to the extent possible, to
form attractive packages which would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures when they total US$50,000 or more. In bid comparisons, local
manufacturers from Barbados and CARICOM countries would be extended a margin of
preference in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts valued between US$20,000 and
US$50,000 equivalent would be awarded on the basis of LCB procedures, in an aggregated
amount not to exceed US$1,500,000 equivalent. Miscellaneous equipment which cannot
be grouped into packages of US$20,000 equivalent or more and aggregated up to
US$100,000 equivalent, would be procured through the Government's Central Purchasing
Department on the basis of competitive price quotations from at least three suppliers
eligible under the Bank guidelines (international or local shopping). Books and reference
materials (US$0.6 million equivalent, including contingencies) would be purchased through
international or local shopping, whenever possible, or directly from the copyright owning
publisher or authorized distributor up to an aggregate amount of US$0.2 million.
(c)  Consultant and  Professional Services  (US$5.1 million  equivalent, including
contingencies) All consulting and professional service contracts would be awarded in
accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for recruitment of consultants.
(d)  Training (US$1.1 million equivalent, including contingencies) This category includes
local training (US$0.6 million equivalent) and overseas fellowships and study tours
(US$0.5 million equivalent).  In-country training would be arranged with relevant
ministries. Placement of candidates in foreign institutions would be made on the basis of
quality, costs, and appropriateness of the programs.
4.9   The limits on the type of procurement applied and prior review thresholds are summarized in
Annex VI. Prior Bank review of procurement documentation would be required for: (a) civil works
contracts exceeding US$200,000 equivalent (representing about 90 percent of the total value of the
contracts); (b) equipment and other goods exceeding US$50,000 equivalent and all direct purchases of
books and reference materials (representing close to 90 percent of the estimated value of the contracts);
and (c) consultant contracts. Other contracts would be subject to selective post-award review.
4.10   Disbursements The proposed Bank loan of US$7.8 million would be disbursed over a period
of seven years (1993-2000), with disbursements completed by June 30, 2000. The disbursement schedule
for the loan is presented in Annex III. The project profile is broadly similar to the standard profile for
Barbados. The loan would disburse the following percentages, by category of expenditure: (a) 20
percent of civil works; (b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures of directly imported goods and 85 percent
of locally produced goods such as equipment and training materials, furniture, books and reference
materials; (c) 100 percent of foreign consulting services; (d) 35 percent of local consulting services and



- 28 -
professional fees (including architectural and engineering fees); and (e) 100 percent of overseas training
and study tours.
4.11   Disbursements against contracts of US$20,000 equivalent or less would be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) certified by the MOE. Documentation would be maintained by the
EPIU and be readily available for periodic review by Bank supervision missions. Other disbursements
would be made against fully documented withdrawal applications, which would be aggregated, to the
extent possible, in amounts of US$20,000 or more prior to submission to the Bank.
4.12   Special Account In order to facilitate project implementation and reduce the interval during
which the Government would finance with its resources the Bank's share of goods and services, a Special
Account would be established at the Central Bank of Barbados. At project effectiveness, the Bank will,
at the Government's request, make an initial deposit of US$400,000 from the loan account, representing
four months of expenditures.
4.13   Accounting and Auditing The auditing and accounting procedures used in the first two Bank
education projects are satisfactory and the reports were well prepared. The EPIU would continue
maintaining its accounts in accordance with acceptable accounting procedures. Other ministries to be
involved in the execution of the project (i.e., Labour, Community Development, Civil Service) would
delegate responsibility for accounting and auditing functions to the EPIU. Within six months following
the end of each fiscal year the Government would submit an audit report to the Bank.
Project Management and Implementation
4.14   Given the number of ministries involved and the complexity of the proposed project, and in light
of the long standing experience and good track record of the EPIU, this unit would continue handling
procurement, accounting, and auditing for all project activities. Agreements would be elaborated,
governing inter-ministerial responsiblities, with each ministry delegating authority to the EPIU of the
MOE to handle these functions on its behalf. At the same time, each ministry would make provisions
in its own budgetary allocation for expenditures related to the implementation of its respective component.
In view of the additional work load, the EPIU would be strengthened through staff training and local
consultancies and provision of computers. The EPIU would have the overall responsibility for preparing
annual work programs (not later than January 31 of each year) including project activities, an
implementation schedule and a proposed budget.
4.15   With respect to the implementation of the policy and institutional aspects of the project, the inter-
ministerial committee, established during the appraisal mission, would continue overseeing and monitoring
project implementation. This committee is comprised of a chairman (Senior Education Officer, MOE
Planning Unit), EPIU education officer and project accountant, and technical staff from the Ministries
of Finance, Labour, Community Development, and Civil Service. Committee representatives would be
responsible for: (i) contributing to the preparation of annual work programs and budgets, (ii) coordinating
the elaboration of reform measures, to be introduced in their respective ministries, ensuring the
collaboration of other technical staff and the endorsement of the Permanent Secretary and/or Minister
involved, (iii) participating in annual evaluations, with a particular focus on assessing progress in light
of the monitoring and evaluation indicators agreed upon, and contributing to the elaboration of annual
work programs and bi-annual reports, and (iv) overseeing consultancies, training, and fellowships to be
funded under their respective ministry.



- 29 -
Monitoring, Review and Evaluation
4.16   The project's monitoring and evaluation indicators are presented in Annex IV. A baseline survey
would be carried out to assemble information on the monitoring and evaluation indicators. These
indicators would assist in evaluating implementation progress, making modifications, and determining the
project's impact. Periodic 'mini' evaluations would assess the impact on educational quality of various
project interventions which can not be readily quantified (e.g., staff training, instructor
feedback/evaluation system, curricula development). Tracer studies, to be funded under the project,
would provide useful data on graduate placement rates. The project's impact would be measured in terms
of the improvement in examination scores, placement rates for graduates of TVET programs and for NEB
job registrants. The Government would submit bi-annual progress reports to the Bank not later than July
31 and December 31 of each year, and carry out joint annual evaluations with the Bank in the first
quarter of each year, identifying major problems and proposing remedial actions. A mid-term evaluation
would be carried out in the first quarter of 1997, to assess progress towards:
(i) reforming the national examinations/certification system and introducing continuous diagnostic
assessment tests;
(ii) elaborating/implementing the cost recovery program;
(iii) raising S/T ratios in primary and secondary education;
(iv) rationalizing technical/vocational courses in secondary education;
(v) restructuring Erdiston College;
(vi) implementing the recommendations of the salary review study of technical instructors;
(vii) improving the industry advisory committee system; and
(viii) launching the operations of the TVET Council, with a particular focus on the elaboration
of a national training plan, performance standards, articulation manual, initiation of ETF-funded
training activities, and expansion of private sector participation.
Depending on the outcome of the mid-term evaluation, an agreement would be reached with the
Government on necessary reallocation of credit proceeds, as deemed necessary.
Environmental Impact
4.17   The project would have a positive environmental impact to the degree that environmental
awareness themes are integrated in the teacher training program, and TVET institutions produce trained
technicians (i.e., electricians, equipment maintenance specialists) who would represent a source of
manpower for industry and environmental projects. No adverse environmental effects are expected from
the civil works activities to be funded under the project.



- 30 -
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
5.1    The principal benefits of the project are the quality, efficiency and equity gains. The reform of
the national examinations and certification system should result in broadening educational opportunities,
to the extent that the BSSEE is phased out as a selection mechanism for allocating secondary school
places, and entrance to secondary school is allowed beyond age 11, taking into account that children
develop at different rates. Reform of the examinations system should also lead to a reduced need for
remediation at the secondary level, and to improved learning achievement rates. The design and
introduction of an alternative secondary school certificate would allow the majority of young people to
enter the labor market with a certificate reflecting a recognized level of achievement. Institutional
reinforcement would leave in place the framework for improved management of the education and
training system, while the design/introduction of cost and financing strategies would allow the Ministry
of Education to cope with the challenge of improving the quality of education in light of growing fiscal
pressures. The establishment of a Policy Coordinating Council is expected to enhance policy, planning,
and coordinating capabilities in the TVET sub-sector. The strengthening and rationalization of post-
secondary institutions will place them in a better capacity to address emerging manpower needs while the
creation of an Employment and Training Fund would allow the Government to address the adverse effects
of its structural adjustment program, by enabling Barbadian workers to acquire new skills and/or establish
themselves in self-employment and by encouraging a greater private sector role in the provision and
financing of training. The provision of strengthened employment services and counselling is expected
to improve the match between prospective employees and job vacancies, accelerating labor absorption,
particularly of individuals at the lower ends of the labor force. Finally, the production and dissemination
of improved labor market information should enhance the planning and delivery of TVET services.
Risks
5.2    The project faces three risks.  The first relates to the uncertainty over the medium-term
macroeconomic environment, which may adversely affect the availability of counterpart funding and the
returns to investments in the TVET and labor market components. This would be partly addressed by
phasing the project over a 7-year period (with relatively low disbursements during the first years when
the overall financial situation will be most precarious), and by seeking assurances from Government on
the availability and timeliness of counterpart funds and monitoring the situation closely through annual
reviews of the education Public Expenditure Program. The Bank's country dialogue will continue to
emphasize the need for appropriate economic policies, which provide incentives for investment and
employment creation. The second risk deals with the potential difficulties the Government may face in
addressing politically and socially unpopular reforms (e.g., redundancy in the teacher corps and
introduction of user fees), which may adversely affect various stakeholders. This risk would be mitigated
by providing financing for workshops/seminars aimed at generating a broad based national consensus.
The third risk stems from the broad scope of the proposed project which would be managed within the
MOE but would involve three other ministries. To minimize this risk, the project provides for the
establishment of an interministerial committee, and for strengthening the EPIU (i.e., staff, training,
equipment).



- 31 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1    During negotiations, the following documents were reviewed and agreed upon:
(i) Standard bidding documents, design plans, implementation schedules, and updated cost
estimates for all civil works components; master lists for procurement of equipment, furniture,
and books and estimated value of contracts; and terms of reference for consultancies and studies;
further revisions to the bidding documents will be completed by June 30, 1993, to comply with
the new Bank guidelines on use of standard bidding documents; the terms of reference for the
labor market component, as well as the equipment lists for the BCC Library and the foreign
language program, will be submitted to the Bank by May 31, 1993;
(ii) Draft education development plan (1993-2000), which reflects the Government's policy
framework (para. 2.12); it was agreed that the Bank will provide detailed comments by mid-June;
(iii) Legal provisions for establishing the new TVET Policy Coordinating Council/Employment
and Training Fund (ETF) and for effecting changes in the National Training Board's mandate
(paras. 2.5, 3.5e);
(iv) The 5-year education public expenditure program and the 1993/94 budget estimates, which
are consistent with the Government's education strategy, and reflects adequate levels of
counterpart funding and non-salary operating budgets for the entities supported under the project
(para. 3.4f/ii);
(v) Future mandate of Erdiston College (para. 2.8); and
(vi) Institutional arrangements for project implementation (paras. 4.14, 4.15).
6.2    As conditions of effectiveness, (a) take all necessary actions for revising the mandate of the
NTB, and for establishing the TVET Policy Coordinating Council/ETF, with an appropriate structure,
mandate, and staff, which is acceptable to the Bank (paras. 2.5, 3.5e); (b) adopt a set of regulations,
acceptable to the Bank, for the operation of the ETF (paras. 2.5, 3.5e); and (c) appoint an executive
director an administrative and financial officer, and an expert in training fund management, all with
functions, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, (paras. 2.5, 3.5e).
6.3    As condition of disbursement for project activities related to the upgrading of Erdiston College,
including acquisition of furniture and equipment, no funds will be disbursed unless the Bank has received
final design plans, cost estimates and technical specifications, all satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.4 a/v).
6.4    The following actions have been agreed upon to ensure successful implementation of the project:
(a) Submit to the Bank (no later than December 31, 1993) a detailed, time-bound action plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, for restructuring of Erdiston College, which would provide for:
implementation of the revised mandate; adoption of cost-effective teaching modes that take into
account the projected demand for in-service training; staff reduction targets and discontinuance
of initial teacher training at the primary level; and implement agreed upon action plan (para. 2.7,
2,8);



- 32 -
(b) Submit to the Bank (no later than December 1993) a time-bound action plan for reducing the
unit  cost  of  technical/vocational  courses  in  secondary  education  through  the
concentration/consolidation of course offerings in upper secondary education and/or in
strategically placed schools (para. 2.7. 2.8); and implement plan according to agreed upon
timetable;
(c) Design a program, acceptable to the Bank, (not later than August 31, 1996) for the delivery
of private sector commissioned training at the BCC; and establish a division (Industry Services
Unit) at the BCC for administering the program, which would operate on a cost recovery basis
(para. 3.5d/iii);
(d) Improve the internal efficiency of education and training system by progressively raising S/T
ratios, so as to reach 23:1 in primary education and 19:1 in secondary education by January 31,
1996, and maintaining them above these levels thereafter (para. 2.7);
(e) Submit to the Bank (not later than December 31, 1994) a time-bound cost recovery program
for the tertiary institutions (UWI, BCC, SJPP, Erdiston College), and thereafter implement the
program (paras. 2.9, 2.10, 3.4f/ii);
(f) Submit to the Bank through the TVET Policy Coordinating Council (not later than December
31, 1996) a National Training Plan, a manual of performance targets for post-secondary TVET
programs, and an articulation manual (paras. 2.5, 3.5e);
(g) Submit to the Bank for its review and approval (not later than January 31 of each year) the
proposed rolling five-year public expenditure program (PEP) for the education and training
sector, and the evidence of actual expenditures incurred in the education sector in the previous
year (not later than May 31 of each year); and implement the PEP (para. 3.4f/ii);
(h) Submit bi-annual progress reports to the Bank not later than July 31 and December 31 of each
year; and an annual work program (not later than January 31 of each year), covering project
activities, implementation schedule and proposed budget (paras. 4.14, 4.15);
(i) Hold annual reviews with the Bank during the first quarter of each year to exchange views on:
(i) implementation progress and attainment of project objectives, as measured by the monitoring
and evaluation indicators in Annex IV; and (ii) changes in project design and/or implementation
that may be necessary. In addition to these issues, the mid-term evaluation, to be held in 1997,
will address the specific issues mentioned in paragraph 4.16. If based on the above reviews,
progress is found unsatisfactory, the Government will take all necessary remedial actions (para.
4.16); and
(j) Maintain the TVET Council, the EPIU and the Interministerial Committee with functions,
structure and staff satisfactory to the Bank and operate the ETF in accordance with the regulations
agreed with the Bank (paras. 2.5, 3.5e, 4.14, 4.15).
6.5    Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$7.8 million equivalent to Barbados, repayable in 15 years, including a 5-year grace period, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.



-33-
BARBADOS
HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
Annex List
ANNEX I:             Project Cost Tables
ANNEX II:            Project Implementation Plan
ANNEX III:           Disbursement Schedule
ANNEX IV:            Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
ANNEX V:             Civil Works Component
ANNEX VI:            Procurement Thresholds and Prior Review Requirements
ANNEX VII:          Increasing the Use of Learning Resources Throughout the Educational System
ANNEX VIII:          Multi-certification Level TVET Teacher Training Program
ANNEX IX:            TVET Policy Coordinating Council/Employment and Training Fund
ANNEX X:             Selected Documents Available in Project File
ANNEX XI:            Supervision Schedule
ANNEX XII:           Structure of the Formal System of Education
TABLE 1:             Economic Activity Status of Working Age Population
TABLE 2:             Distribution of Labor Force, by Education Level
TABLE 3:             Distribution of Labor Force by Occupational Category
TABLE 4:             Registrations and Placements at the National Employment Bureau, 1989-91
TABLE 5:             Education Recurrent Expenditures, 1991-92
TABLE 6:             Education Expenditures, Total Number of Students and Unit Costs, 1986-87
to 1991-92.
TABLE 7:             Primary and Secondary School Enrollments and Student/Teacher Ratios, 1979-
2000






-34-
Annex I
BARBADOS
HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Inctuding Contingencies                   Totals Including Contingencies
BDSS                                               USS
---- ---- --- ---- --- . -- . --- . --- . . . -   ------------ --------..-----.--.....- ---------....--- --.......
93/94  94/95  95/96  96/97  97/98 Total         93/94  94/95  95/96  96/97  97/98 Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                         0.0    0.4    0.7    1.3    0.7    3.1            0.0    0.2    0.3    0.7    0.4    1.6
B. Equipment                           0.4    0.9    1.3    1.7    1.3    5.6            0.2    0.5    0.6    0.9    0.7    2.8
C. Furniture                           0.0    0.2    0.3    0.3    0.4    1.2            0.0    0.1    0.2    0.1    0.2    0.6
D. Books & Reference Mater.            0.2    0.3    0.2    0.2    0.3    1.2            0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.6
E. Training Materials                  0.0    0.1    0.2    0.2    0.3    0.7            0.0    0.0    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.4
F. Professional Fees                   0.0    0.1    0.0    0.3    0.1    0.4            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.0    0.2
G. Technical Assistance
1. Foreign Consultancies            0.0    0.6    0.8    0.8    0.4    2.6            0.0    0.3    0.4    0.4    0.2    1.3
2. Local Consultancies              0.2    1.5    2.0    2.0    1.9    7.6            0.1    0.8    1.0    1.0    0.9    3.8
Sub-Total                              0.2    2.1    2.8    2.8    2.3   10.2            0.1    1.0    1.4    1.4    1.2    5.1
H. Training
1. Local Training                   0.0    0.1    0.3    0.4    0.3    1.1            0.0    0.0    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.6
2. overseas Training                0.0    0.2    0.4    0.1    0.1    0.8            0.0    0.1    0.2    0.0    0.0    0.4
3. Study Tours                      0.1    0.1    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.3            0.0    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2
. .................................................  ............................................. ....
Sub-Total                              0.1    0.4    0.8    0.5    0.4    2.2            0.0    0.2    0.4    0.2    0.2    1.1
t. Proj.Preparation Facility           1.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.0            0.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.5
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                 1.9    4.5    6.3    7.2    5.8   25.7            1.0    2.2    3.2    3.6    2.9   12.9
- - - - - - - --   - - - - - - - - - -=   - S- - = 5=-=- =  =- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
tI. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Operation & Maintenance             0.0    0.3    0.4    1.0    1.0    2.6            0.0    0.1    0.2    0.5    0.5    1.3
B. Staff Salaries                      0.2    0.4    0.6    0.6    0.6    2.3            0.1    0.2    0.3    0.3    0.3    1.1
C. Project Preparation                 0.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.6            0.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.3
Total RECURRENT COSTS                  0.7    0.6    0.9    1.6    1.6    5.5            0.4    0.3    0.5    0.8    0.8    2.7
z---------     -------    ==========   =Z==== =   *rz==  ----------      -  ---    ----------------==
Totat PROJECT COSTS                    2.6    5.1    7.3    8.8    7.4   31.2            1.3    2.5    3.6    4.4    3.7   15.6
=  ====    ===X===========================        5==S========5SS===5s===-============ =
.      .... .... ..... ........................... ........................................1........
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 5/18/1993 14:27



-35-
Annex I
BARBADOS
HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
BDSS
Summary Accounts by Year
Base Costs                                     Foreign Exchange
93/94     94/95      95/96      96/97      97/98      TotaL          X    Amount
==a==================S=========3===  =-=========== ==========
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A.  Civil Works                          0.0        0.3        0.6        1.1       0.6        2.7         45.0    1.2
B.  Equipment                            0.3        0.8        1.1        1.5       1.1        4.9         95.0    4.6
C.  Furniture                            0.0        0.2        0.3       0.2        0.3        1.0         60.0    0.6
D.  Books & Reference Mater.             0.2        0.2        0.2        0.2       0.2        1.0         95.0    1.0
E.  Training MateriaLs                   0.0        0.1        0.2       0.2        0.2        0.6         95.0    0.6
F.  Professional Fees                    0.0        0.1        0.0       0.2        0.1        0.4          0.0    0.0
G. Technical Assistance
1. Foreign Consultancies             0.0        0.5        0.7        0.7        0.3        2.2         75.0    1.7
2. Local Consultancies                0.1        1.4       1.7        1.6        1.5        6.3          0.0    0.0
Sub-totaL                                0.2        1.9        2.4        2.3       1.8        8.6          19.6    1.7
H. Training
1. Local Training                    0.0        0.0        0.3        0.3        0.3        0.9          0.0    0.0
2. Overseas Training                  0.0       0.2        0.3        0.0        0.1        0.7         95.0    0.6
3. Study Tours                        0.1       0.1        0.1        0.0        0.0        0.3         80.0    0.2
Sub-totaL                                0.1        0.4        0.7       0.4        0.3        1.9         45.5    0.9
i.  Proj.Preparation Facility            1.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        1.0         53.4    0.5
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                   1.8        4.0        5.5       6.0        4.7       22.0         50.4   11.1
iI. RECURRENT COSTS
J.  Operation & Maintenance              0.0        0.2        0.3       0.8        0.8        2.3         42.8    1.0
K.  Staff Salaries                       0.2        0.3        0.5       0.5        0.5        2.0          0.2    0.0
L.  Project Preparation                  0.5        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.5          0.0    0.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                    0.7        0.6        0.8        1.3       1.4        4.8         20.2    1.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                     2.6        4.6        6.3       7.4        6.0       26.8         44.9   12.1
Physical Contingencies                0.0       0.2        0.3        0.3        0.3        1.1         50.2    0.6
Price Contingencies                   0.0       0.3        0.7        1.1        1.1        3.2         35.4    1.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                      2.6        5.1       7.3        8.8        7.4       31.2         44.1   13.8
===-=5=============================   === -================ = 
Taxes                                 0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0         .0        0.0          0.0    0.0
Foreign Exchange                      1.2       2.4        3.3        3.8        3.1       13.8        100.0   13.8
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 5/18/1993 14:27
i



-36-
Annex I
BARBADOS
HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
Projects Components by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                 Totals Including Contingencies
BDSS                                             USS
93/94  94/95  95/96  96/97  97/98 Total       93/94  94/95  95/96  96/97  97/98 Total
A. General Education Support
1. Staff Training                  0.0    0.0    0.6    1.9    1.0    3.5          0.0    0.0    0.3    0.9    0.5    1.7
2. Learning Resources              0.2    0.4    0.3    2.7    1.7    5.3          0.1    0.2    0.1    1.4    0.9    2.6
3. Policy Development              0.0    0.1    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.7          0.0    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.4
Sub-Total                               0.2    0.6    1.1    4.8    2.8    9.5         0.1    0.3    0.5    2.4    1.4    4.7
B. TVET Development
1. TVET Instruction                0.0    0.1    0.7    0.4    0.4    1.8          0.0    0.1    0.3    0.2    0.2    0.9
2. Learning Resources              0.1    0.5    1.4    0.8    1.4    4.2          0.0    0.3    0.7    0.4    0.7    2.1
3. Curriculum & Progr.Devel.       0.0    0.2    0.2    0.1    0.1    0.6          0.0    0.1    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.3
4. Selective TVET Programs         0.4    0.6    1.8    0.7    0.8    4.4          0.2    0.3    0.9    0.4    0.4    2.2
5. Institutional Development       0.1    2.1    1.6    1.6    1.6    7.0          0.0    1.1    0.8    0.8    0.8    3.5
Sub-Total                               0.6    3.7    5.7    3.7    4.3   17.9         0.3    1.8    2.9    1.8    2.1    9.0
C. Labor Market Support
1. EmpLoyment Services             0.0    0.4    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.5          0.0    0.2    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.3
2. Labor Market Information        0.0    0.2    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.4          0.0    0.1    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.2
Sub-Total                               0.0    0.6    0.2    0.0    0.0    0.9         0.0    0.3    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.5
D. Project Prep./Administr.            0.9    0.2    0.2    0.3    0.3    1.9         0.4    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.9
E. Proj.Preparation Facility           1.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.0         0.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.5
Total PROJECTS COSTS                    2.6    5.1    7.3    8.8    7.4   31.2         1.3    2.5    3.6    4.4    3.7   15.6
====.= = == ==.,= == == == == =======  = - =-------------
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 5/18/1993 14:27



-37-
Annex I
BARBADOS
HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
BDSS
Project Components by Year
Base Costs                     Total
93/94  94/95  95/96  96/97  97/98  BDSS  USS
A. General Education Support
1. Staff Training                  0.0    0.0    0.5    1.6    0.8    2.9   1.4
2. Learning Resources              0.1    0.4    0.2    2.3    1.4    4.5   2.2
3. Policy DeveLopment              0.0    0.1    0.2    0.2    0.1    0.6   0.3
Sub-total                             0.1    0.5    0.9    4.1    2.3    8.0   4.0
B. TVET Development
1. TVET Instruction                0.0    0.1    0.6    0.4    0.4    1.5   0.8
2. Learning Resources              0.1    0.5    1.2    0.7    1.1    3.6   1.8
3. Curriculum & Progr.Devel.       0.0    0.2    0.2    0.1    0.1    0.5   0.3
4. Selective TVET Programs         0.4    0.6    1.6    0.6    0.6    3.8   1.9
5. Institutional DeveLopment       0.1    1.9    1.4    1.3    1.3    5.9   3.0
Sub-total                             0.6    3.3    5.0    3.0    3.4   15.3   7.7
C. Labor Market Support
1. Employment Services             0.0    0.3    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.5   0.2
2. Labor Market Information        0.0    0.2    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.3   0.2
Sub-total                             0.0    0.5    0.2    0.0    0.0    0.8   0.4
D. Project Prep./Administr.          0.9    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    1.7   0.9
E. Proj.Preparation Facility         1.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.0   0.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                  2.6    4.6    6.3    7.4    6.0   26.8  13.4
Physical Contingencies             0.0    0.2    0.3    0.3    0.3    1.1   0.6
Price Contingencies                0.0    0.3    0.7    1.1    1.1    3.2   1.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                   2.6    5.1    7.3    8.8    7.4   31.2  15.6
==s=================== ==========
Taxes                              0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0
Foreign Exchange                   1.2    2.4    3.3    3.8    3.1   13.8   6.9
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 5/18/1993  14:27
l



-38-
Annex II
BARBADOS
HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
Project Implementation Plan
CY    1992       1993       1994 19 1995          1996   |  1997 1    1998   |  1999  
IBRD FY (July to June) ,  |  1993      1994       1995       1998       1997       1998       1999      2000
BARBADOS FY (April-March) _    92-93       9394     94-95   1  95-98   1  96-97   1  97-98       98-99  | 99-2000
QUARTER CY  21  3 41          34111141 11213    1 4         213141 1      3 1411213 4111 23411
Civii Works
USS1.6 million; loan US$0.3 million  _
Erdiston College
Design Preparation          '                                                                               _
Approvals                          MAIM =           _
Bidding/Evaluabon/Award      =                                                                               ___
Constructon Period
Professional Services
BCC Teacher Resource Center
Design Preparation        _       f:
Approvals
Bidding/Evaluation/Award
Construction Period
Professional Services          *.. *.._
SJPP Teacher Resource Center
Design Prepration
Approvals               __     _
Bidding/Evaluation/Award      __g___
Construction Period
Professional Services      E f_                    f
Public Service Training
Design Preparation
Approvals               _            SfS
Bidding/Evaluation/Award     __                       s____
Construction Period
Professional Services      * :-
Foreign Language Training            _
Design Preparation
Approvals
Bidding/Evaluabon/Award         _________             _
Construcbon Period
BCC Ubrary Extension
Design Preparation              .
Approvals
Bidding/Evaluabon/Award
Construction Period
Protessional Services                                            . .*.*.*.-' . \ =
Equip ment/Flirniture/Trng. Materials
US$3.8 million: loan US$3.2 million
Master Usts       T        3                  %... F
Specs/Bidding Documents                ________
Bidg./Eval./Award                      ________
Orders & Delivery                    __         _
Installation & Acceptance            __*
Books and Reference Materials        _
US$0.6 million: loan US$0.5 million
Preparabon
Placement of Orders              _ S _
Delivery Period
Training
US$1.1 million: loan US$0.5 million
Training Period
Technical Assistance
US$5.1 million: loan US$2.8 million
Services Period
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)  -
US$0.5 million; loan US$0.8 million
Effectiveness 11/30/93
Complelon  /31/00
Closing 12310



-39-
Annex m
BARBADOS
HDMN RESOURCES PRO ECT
Disbursement Schedule
Disbursement                        Disbursement
IBRD                                     Cumulative    Profile (e)
Fiscal Year    Semester    Cumulative         as % of         Barbados
and Semester   -----(US$ million) ----         total
1993
1st              0.0           0.0             0
2nd              0.5           0.5             6%              0%
1994
1st              0.0           0.5             6%              6%
2nd              0.5           1.0            13%              6%
1995
Ist              0.0           1.0            13%             10l
2nd              0.3           1.3            17%             22%
1996
1st              0.9           2.2            28%             34%
2nd              0.9           3.1            40*             50%
1997
1st              0.9          4.0             51%             54%
2nd              0.6          4.6             59%             66%
1998
1st              0.9          5.5             71%             78%
2nd              0.9           6.4            82%             86%
1999
1st              0.6           7.0            90%             94%
2nd              0.3           7.3            94%            100*
2000
1st             0.3          7.6             97%
2nd             0.2          7.8            100%
Closing Date: December 31, 2000



-40-
Annex Im
Barbados: Human Resources Project
Disbursement Forecast
E _ 0
1 00 
90 
80 
0
70
70
00 
60
30
00
0~~~1
June 1993             June 1995              June 1997             June 1999
June 1994             June 1996             June 1998              June 2000
IBRD fiscal year
0   H.R. Project     +   Standard



-41-
Annex m
Disbursement Schedule
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
e of
Amount of the          Expenditures
Category of                     Loan Allocated            to be
Expenditures               (US$ million equivalent)    Financed
1.   Civil Works                     0.3                  20
2.   Equipment,                      3.3             100% of foreign
Training Materials,                             expenditures and
Furniture, and Books                            85% of local
and Reference Materials                         expenditures for
locally procured
items
3.   Consultancies                   2.4             100W of foreign
expenditures and
35% of local
expenditures
4.   Overseas Fellowships            0.5                  100
and Study Tours
5.   PPF                             0.5                  100
6.   Unallocated                     0.8
TOTAL                           7.8



HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT: Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
COMPONENT/            OBJECTIVES                          INDICATORS                         INSTITUTIONAL         TIMING
SUB-                                        Input             Output           Impact       ARRANGEMENTS
COMPONENT
I. GENERAL                                                                   10% increase
EDUCATION                                                                 in national
examination
scores
1. Staff Training   a) Strengthen       Training,        800 primary and                   M.O.E. Training        Start
both pedagogical    Technical        secondary school                  Plans                 1994/95
and technical       Assistance       teachers                                                Completion
skills of staff.                     trained                                                 1999/2000
b) Improve          Training,        100 M.O.E.                        M.O.E. District       Start
school              Technical        staff,                            Officers              1995/96
management          Assistance       counsellors, and                                        Completion
school principals                                       1999/2000
trained
2. Leaming          a) Upgrade          Equipment,        Establishment of                  M.O.E.                Start
Resources         learning            Training,         15 primary                        National              1994/95
resources in        Fellowships      school library                    Library               Completion
schools and                          resource centers                                        1999/2000
libraries to
improve access                       Upgrading of the
and use.                             National Library



HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT: Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
COMPONENTI           OBJECTIVES                       INDICATORS                       INSTITUTIONAL          TIMING
SUB-                                      Input         Output               Impact   ARRANGEMENTS
COMPONENT
3. Policy           a) Reduip the    Technical    Continuous                          M.O.E.               Stat
Development         atial examina-  Assistnce,  assessment                                                  1994/95
tion and          Training,    sytem                                                   Compbtion
cortifckation     Workshops   deveklod                                                 1999/2000
system.                        by mid-project
and
gradually
implemented
thereafter.
M.O.E.
b) Fine tune and    Technical    S-year education                                      Start
update annualy    Asistance,   PEP.                                                    1994/9S
the education     Training,                                                            Completion
PEP               Workshops                                                            1999/2000
M.O.E.
c) Raise S/T                   Primary:   25                                           Start
ratio. in primary              Secondary: 21                                           1993194
and secondary                                                                          Completion
education                                                                               1999/2000
M.O.E. and
d) Duign and                   Cost recovery                      Ministry of
implement a                    raised to 7% of                    Finance
comprehensive                 total education
coat-recovery                  recurret
program                         pending.
MOE Planning
e) Conduct        Tochnical    Completed                          Unit.                Start
studies           Assistance   studies in the                                          1994195
to &sses#         Workshops  foUowing areas:                                           Completion
the effectivenoe               * Quality                                                1999/2000
of policy reforms              A_sement
and project                    *Cost Recovery
initiativs                     *aeneral
Education
Training.



HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT: Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
COMPONENT/              OBJECTIVES                          INDICATORS                      INSTITUTIONAL         TIMING
SUB                                             Input           Output           Impact    ARRANGEMENTS
COMPONENT
II. TVET                                                                      50%
increase in
graduate
placement
rates.
1. TVET          a) Develop the general     Technical      No. of Teachers                 B.C.C. will have     Start
Instruction    education, technical and    Assistance,   trained at each                 overaU               1995/96
Multi-         pedagogical competence of   Fellowships,  level as follows:               responsibility for   Completion
Certification  TVET educators at the       Workshops    Certificate: 40                  accreditation and    1999/2000
Level Teacher  secondary and post-                       Associate                       quality control,and
Training       secondary levels and                      Degree:    25                   handle operational
Program        at the NTB.                               B'ED:       20                  aspects and
DIP.ED:    50                  certification of
Associate Degree
Level.
Teacher        b) Prepare S.J.P.P and      Study         4 instructors                   B.C.C. would select  Start
Trainers       B.C.C. instructors          Tours,        trained                         candidates           1995/96
in advanced level          Technical                                     and monitor          Completion
pedagogical and technical    Assistance,                                 study tours          1999/2000
skills to enable them to   Fellowships
facilitate teacher training
courses



HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT: Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
COMPONENT/              OBJECTIVES                       INDICATORS                      INSTITUTIONAL        TIMING
SUB-                                          Input         Output            Impact    ARRANGEMENTS
COMPONENT
Instructor        c) Introduce an annual   Staff        50% of                       B.C.C., S.J.P.P.,     Start
Feedback and     performance             Orientation    instructors use              NTB and TVET          1995/96
Performance      appraisal system        sessions       classroom                    secondary education    Completion
Evaluation       for TVET instructors    Technical      feedback                     officers and union    1999/2000
System           to acquire feedback on   Assistance.    techniques.                 representatives
teaching.
Procedures
handbook for
performance                                                                      .
evaluation
for BBC and
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _____ _______ ______SJP P
2. Instructional    a) Establish teacher   Architectural   3 teacher                   BBC, SJPP             Start
Materials         resource centers       Services,      resource                                           1994/95
and Library       (BCC, and SJPP).       Equipment      centers                                            Completion
Resources                                Books,         established.                                       1999/2000
Training.
Increased use
of learning
resources
b) Upgrade BCC
Library.                              Increased                                          Start              i
library                                           1997/98-
circulation.                                      Completion
1998/99



HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT: Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
COMPONENT/            OBJECTIVES                         INDICATORS                         INSTITUTIONAL         TIMING
SUB                                       Input            Output             Impact       ARRANGEMENTS
COMPONENT
3. Curricula and
Program
Development
Curriculum        a) Increase the    Technical       1 Trained                          B.C.C. and S.J.P.P.   Start
Development       level of expertise   Assistance,  full-time                                                 1994/95
Expertise        im curriculum       Workshops,    curriculum                                                 Completion
development and   Fellowships     specialist at                                             1997/98
evaluation                        BCC and SJPP
methodologies.                    _      _a
Program Review    b) Develop and     Appointment   2 annual program                     B.C.C., S.J.P.P.      Start
and               pilot program      of a            reviews/                            and                  1994/95
Evaluation        review/evaluation   steering      evaluations                         M.O.E.                Completion
Procedures        procedures,        committee,     at BCC and SJPP                                           1997/98
including         Technical
establishment and   Assistance,   Improved
use of program    Workshops       program advisory
advisory                          committee system
committees at                     at BCC and SJPP
SJPP and BCC
10 tertiary level
TVET programs
discontinued or                                                        l
downsized.



HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT: Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
COMPONENT/             OBJECTIVES                        INDICATORS                       INSTITUTIONAL         TIMING
SUB                                         Input            Output            Impact   ARRANGEMENTS
COMPONENT
4. Selective
TVET
Training
Youth Training    a) Prepare youth to   Local                                          Community            Start
be employed or      training,                                        Development &        1995/96
entrepreneurs       equipment,                                       Culture              Completion
in the art and      and                                                                   1997/98
craft business       materials
Civil Service     b) Expand and        Architectural   2 new training                  Training             Start
Training            upgrade public     Services,      rooms equipped.                  Administration       1994/95
Administration      sector training    Fellowships,    200 participant                 Division             Completion
Division                               Technical      increase per year                                     1997/98
Assistance
B.C.C. Industry   c) Develop the       Staff,         Self-sufficient                  B.C.C.               Start
Services Unit     capacity to          Technical      operation by                                          1994/95
design and           Assistance     project                                               Completion
implement                           completion                                            1997/98
customized short-
term training
for business and
industry
Foreign           d) Improve           Technical      BCC Language                     B.C.C.               Start
Language          availability         Assistance,    Center upgraded                                       1993/94
Training          and quality of       Equipment,    and equipped                                           Completion
language instruction   Instructional                                                      1997/98
at secondary and     Materials,     150 teachers
tertiary level       Study Tours,   trained
Training
30% increase in                                                             I
income from 
BCC Language
Center
operations



HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT: Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
COMPONENT/           OBJECTIVES                         INDICATORS                      INSTITUTIONAL           TIMING
SUB                                         Input            Output           Impact   ARRANGEMENTS
COMPONENT
5. TVET
Institutional
Capabilities                                                                                               Start
Min. of Labor        1993/94
TVET Policy    a) Establish a high    Technical       -Production of                 Consumer              Completion
Coordinating    level national council   Assistance,  annual TVET plan,              Affairs & the         1999/2000
Council        to:                    Equipment,    performance targets              Environment.
Furniture,     for tertiary TVET
* elaborate TVET      Training,       programs,
policies and plans.    Workshops    articulation
agreements, and
* establish                           promotional
performance targets                 campaigns                                                                                   co
for public TVET
programs.                           -80% of the ETF
program is
* coordinate TVET                     used for private
programs.                            sector training and
joint ventures
* manage the                          between the
Employment and                      private and public
Training Fund.                       sectors
* improve the status
of TVET.
TVET           a) Carry-out           Workshops       20 TVET                        B.C.C.               Start
Management    workshops                               managers                                             1993/94
Training       for managers; and                      graduate with                                        Completion
develop a                             certificates                                         1997/98
certificate level                     every two years.                                                              I
TVET Management
program at B.C.C.



HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT: Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
COMPONENT/              OBJECTIVES                         INDICATORS                         INSTITUTIONAL          TIMING
SUB                                           Input            Output              Impact   ARRANGEMENTS
COMPONENT
Studies for        b) Carry out tracer    Technical    Completed studies                  TVET Policy            Start
TVET               studies of graduates   Assistance    in the following                  Coordinating           1994/95
Institutional      of TVET programs                    areas:                             Council                Completion
Development        and conduct                         *Secondary TVET                    Other Institutions     1999/2000
research to assess                  reform
the effectiveness                   *Graduate
of policy reforms                   tracer studies
and project                         *BCC and SJPP
initiatives                         mandate and
structure
*TVET project
evaluation (e.g.,
teacher and
management
training;
instructor feedback
system.)



HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT: Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
COMPONENT/    OBJECTIVES                            INDICATORS                         INSTITUTIONAL        TIMING
SUB                                   Input           Output            Impact        ARRANGEMENTS
COMPONENT
Im. LABOR        Strengthen       Equipment,   Two additional        20% increase     Ministry of Labor.    Start
MARKET        employment       Technical     NEB offices         in NEB           Consumer Affairs     1994/95
SUPPORT    services and        Assistance,    established.       placement        and the              Completion
labor market     Workshops                         rates.           Environment.         1999/2000
information at    and Study    Streamlined
the NEB and      Tours.        administrative
MRSU.                          procedures at the                                                                             o
NEB
25% increase
in the total
number of
applicants
registered per
month.
Production of
high quality
timely labor
market reports



-51-
Annex V
BARBADOS
HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
Civil Works Component
A. General Education Support
1.    Erdiston College (US$0.5 million, including contingencies) Erdiston College would be
upgraded, including acqusition of furniture and equipment. The final design plans, cost
estimates, and technical specifications will need to be approved by the Bank before
disbursements for this component can take place.
B. Technical and Vocational Education and Training
2.    Barbados Community College (BCC) (US$0.1 million, including contingencies)
Teacher Resource Center
A teacher resource center, comprising a self-help audio-visual preparation center and a
technology literacy resource lab, would be accommodated within the existing facilities
of the BCC. Civil works would involve interior wall, mechanical and electrical
modifications to adapt existing spaces to the requirements of the center.
3.    Samuel Jackman Prescod Polytechnic (SJPP) (US$0.1 million, including contingencies)
Audio-Visual Resource Center
The facility would provide audio-visual viewing, storage and self-help preparation
resource areas. Proposed improvements at the SJPP include expansion (36 sq.m.) of the
existing Audio-Visual Aids room to incorporate adjacent balcony space under the roof;
and partitioning of the existing executive officer room to provide separate rooms for the
executive officer, counsellor and storage. All rooms will be air-conditioned.
4.    BCC Main Library Expansion (US$0.5 million, including contingencies)
The proposed extension of the present library involves (i) a new mezzanine floor, in the
form of a balcony, along the exterior walls of the central reading space (227 sq.m.); (ii)
incorporation of the inner courtyard into the reading space of the library by constructing
a floor and a roof over the courtyard (107 sq.m.); and (iii) enclosure of the landing area
at the student center to serve as a lobby to the library (73 sq.m.).



-52-
Annex V
C. TVET Selective Training Programs
5.    Training Administration Division (US$0.4 million, including contingencies)
A one-story extension to the existing Training Center of the Civil Service Ministry will
be funded under the project. The addition provides for two additional classrooms, a
resource center, an office, and storage space. Proposed site improvements include
improved access to the site, 33 parking spaces, paving of driveways, a ramp for wheel
chair access to the training facilities, and covered walkways. The design of the new
structure follows the architecture of the existing facilities.  A slopping roof is
contemplated over the addition to avoid water leaks, presently a problem with the flat
roof of the existing structures.
6.    Foreign Language Training (US$0.02 million, including contingencies)
Civil works will involve sound attenuation improvements in the space contemplated for
foreign language training at the BCC.



-53-
Annex VI
BARBADOS
HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
Procurement Thresholds and Prior Review Requirements
(US$ 000)
Prior Review
Procurement Thresholds                    Requirement /a
Aggregate           Type of
Type of Contract        Contract Value       Amount            Procurement      Contract Value
Civil Works                above 900            NA                   ICB           200 or more
50 to 900            1600                LCB           200 or more
less tha.; 50       50                   Shopping      NA
Equipment, Furniture       50 or more           NA                   ICB           50 or more
and Training               20 to 50             1500                 LCB           NA
Materials                  less than 20         100                  Shopping      NA
Books and
Reference
Materials                  all contracts        600                  Shopping /b   50 or more
all directpudases
Consultancies,
Training and
Professional
Services                   all contracts        NA                   Other /c      all contracts
/a    Other contracts would be subject to selective post-award review.
I2    This includes negotiated purchases for books and journals, up to an aggregate of US$200,000.
/c    In accordance with Bank guidelines.



-54-
Annex VII
BARBADOS
HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECI
Increasing the Use of Learning Resources Throughout the Educational System
2.1 Strengthening Resource Capabilities WITHIN INDIVlDUAL SCHOOIS AND INSTIrUrIONS
SUMMARY OF OVERALL STRATEGY                                        SPECIFIC ACTIONS NEEDED
PRIRY
2.1.1 Increasing Quanty of Resources
At the primary level this wi]l involve:                           Encourage all teachers to collect/produce resources
2.1.1 - Increasing the quantity of resources In s         2.1.2 Developing Resource Centres Within (initially) 15
.    Pilot Schools then Encouraging Others to Follow
2.1.2 - developing a library-resource centre                     Need secure space, hardware, software
within the school                                           Need supervisor, preferably library assL
Train staff and students in information skills etc
2.1.3 - providing extra training of teacbers                     Open centre to all classes and nearby schools
Give all other schools basic hardware & support
2.1.4 - maldng sbared resources of AVA Dept,                   E
National Library Service (NIS) and other          21.3 Extra training for teachers and teacher librarians
libraries In Barbados available to all schools.             Training in use and production of resources/aids
Increased awareness of role, value of resources
NOTE: flb pproad Scboa LIW IAVA CWMaot
wi prs smwt for Mon spects of th                      .1.4 Making Resources of A VA Available to ALL Schools.
strategy at tht wtn Ind                                      Expand delivery service from AVA to schools
(AVA will be a link to NUS and other collectiorns)
SECONDARY
Al the secondary level this will involve:                  2.1.5 Upgrading Libraries to Library Resource Centres
At the secondar  levelthis  illinvlve:Identify larger space
241.5 * upgrading Ubraries Into library resource                  Increase in software (books, journals, non-print)
centres (with access to AVA)                                Increase In hardware
Facilitate access to AVA Dept for resources not
2.1.6 * upgradlng library assistants Into                          avaiable in the Library Resource Centrc
trained librarians
tined librarian2.1.6 Appointment of Librarians
2.1.7 - increasing number of resources In school                 Training programme to upgrade Library Assts
Phasing in of librarians , for a few schools at first
2.1.8 - creating greater awarmness among staft           2
of the value of learning resources                  2.1.7 Incrasing Quant  of Resources vn Schools
See 2.1.S (above)
Nair. mu uraauy WM VA do r,cdnavu           teni                  All staff to "think resources", cooperate & collect.
do Ted Voc, CoawI E*matim Mi Fiord  Lag
mptn;isi d  e wicb wS i        Uts pti ram ui m          2.1.8 Greater Awareness among Staff
of lewhi  nsat       ki spedic urns.                             Need a teacher to function as "head of resources"
In-scrvice trainiag, with help from AVA
Al the tertiary level this wiIi involve:         TERTIARY
2. 13 - moving towards the establishment of m-01111-      2.1.9 Creation of Learndng Resource Centre at each
resourre unis In each  Instatution. seo eNeed fulltime coordinator
External funds to provide hardware & software
KMt The tUt1aU hkm ewl Ie be EbIfed by                       Ongoing training for staff - with help from AVA
tMte craatomu hwahi cv        Tachw  
Resamus C eig at UWI, BCC ad WP.
2.2 Strengthening Resource Capabilties by External Assistance from the Central "NERVE CENTRE' at AVA
The proposed development of the weU equipped and staffed NERVE CENTRE at the Audio Visual Aids Depart.
ment will ensure that software, hardware, advice and training are available to ALL the above sectors to supplement
what Is actually wlthin the Individual schools In addition, upgrading of National Library Service together wiLh proposals to
establish a networking mechanism will make further resources availabl to all parts of the educational system. These develop-
ments are all parts of components of the Third World Bank Project



-55-
Annex VIII
BARBADOS
HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
Multi-certification Level TVET Teacher Training Program
BACKGROUND
Currently a program exists at Erdiston College to prepare Industrial Arts teachers for the secondary
school system. Other than this non degree teacher preparation, the only option technical vocational
teachers have at the secondary and tertiary levels to acquire advanced training is overseas or to
acquire a general Diploma in Education or Bachelor of Education Degree from UWI. Planning for the
proposed program started 3-5 years ago with a vision that such a program might have potential for
other eastern caribbean countries.
COMPONENT
Concept: A four level teacher training program specifically for technical vocational teachers will be
delivered by Erdiston College, SJPP, and BCC. Levels of certification include a Certificate
(Erdiston), Associate Degree, Diploma in Education, and Bachelors Degree (BCC). The program
participants will primarily be existing teachers in the system. The program content will include an
emphasis on general education, vocational technical and pedagogical teacher competencies.
Extensive field work in schools and industry will be embedded into the program to maximize the
relevance of the course work. The program will be delivered on a flexible basis to accommodate the
needs of existing teachers (i.e. weekends, evenings, summer breaks and day release).
PROGRAM CERTIFICATION
One important feature to be designed into the program is multi-entry and multi-exit points. This was
deemed necessary, given the divergent backgrounds and needs of potential teacher trainees. The
complexity of such a certification structure is made more acute by the variety of graduation labels
which are often used interchangeably to mean different levels of study. More importantly, the
requirements of instructors teaching TVET must be recognized, as must the credit requirements of the
institutions delivering the program. The certification ladder will include the following following
levels:



-56-
Annex VIII
1.  Level I: Certificate in Technical Vocational Education
This level is intended for individuals who possess the necessary trade or technical background
and require the basic professional skills of teaching in the technical vocational area. In addition,
teacher trainees would also complete a number of core general competencies; such as
communications or science. This level which would be equivalent to a year of fulitime study
and would be offered on a very flexible part-time basis during the evening, weekends and
summer. Every summer a basic introduction program would be offered consisting of six to eight
weeks to prepare new instructors for the fall semester or term.
The balance of the program would be offered as described above and instructors would be
expected to complete this level within two years of commencing employment. It is
recommended that this certificate be a condition of employment for secondary and tertiary level
TVET teachers. This level will include many of the professional course competencies offered at
higher certification levels. Therefore the expected outcomes will need to be standardized as
identified in the section on CBE.
2.  Level II: Associate Degree in Technical and Vocational Education
While the one-year certificate focused on professional skills in the context of their vocational
technical specialty, this level's emphasis is the reverse. Primarily, teacher trainees at this level
are learning the skills and knowledge of their trade or technical area through course work and
industry fieldwork. Integration of the occupational and educational dimensions will be
accomplished through additional professional course and field work. To increase the relevance of
general studies in technical/vocational education, various options must be reviewed and
appropriate requirements included. This level would have to adhere to the total credit
requirements established for other BCC associate degrees. This program level could be offered
on a limited fulltime basis over two years, but primarily is viewed as being delivered via a
evening, weekend, and summer schedule. This would not only increase accessibility for existing
teachers but would reduce the costs and disruption related to fulltime release. It would also
maximize utilization of existing space and equipment to support the program.
3.  Level III: Diploma in Technical and Vocational Education (Dip.TVET)
The primary target group for this level are those teachers who possess a first two-three year
certificate, diploma or associate degree, usually in a non-teaching area; such as engineering,
nursing or commerce. These teachers require professional certification for advancement.
Teachers would not be granted credits for the Certificate Level I professional course work, as
Level III would be more advanced, in spite of being in the same course competency area.



-57-
Annex Vm
4.  Level IV: Bachelors Degree in Technical and Vocational Education
The credit system for two alternative schemes would have to be put in place at BCC to articulate
with Levels II and III. Scheme 'A' would have some modification of content and advanced
credits recognized for the Diploma Level III. Scheme 'B' would be for individuals being
admitted directly from the Associate Degree in Technical and Vocational Education. The
addition of professional and industrial field work would be important curriculum enhancements
for the proposed program.
This four-level model will need refinement to take into account the credit system, admission
requirements and graduation regulations. The goal is to put in place a teacher education system for
technical vocational teachers which equals or exceeds the structure and rigour available to their
general education colleagues, while incorporating current ideas about TVET teacher-education reform.
Purposes: The program is intended to professionalize the technical vocational teaching occupation
through the provision of a tiered training program. Equally important, the program will facilitate the
improvement of the instructional process which in turn should have a measurable impact on learning
and achievement.
Activities: The component consists of four elements (design, implementation, evaluation and
specialized teacher training) which emphasize a broad base of input, careful planning, integrated
design between courses and certification levels, systematic monitoring of the phases of implementation
and development of the Barbados talent pool of TVET educators to deliver and support the program.
The budget includes foreign fellowships, foreign and local consultancies and materials acquisition.



-58-
Annex IX
BARBADOS
HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
TVET Policy Coordinating Council/Employment and Training Fund
Mandate, Structure, and Resources
Mandate
The TVET Council would have the following powers and responsibilities:
(a)    Provide advice on national TVET policies;
(b)    Elaborate national TVET plans;
(c)    Ensure that national policy and plans are given effect to;
(d)    Establish standards for TVET programs and institutions;
(e)    Coordinate the provision of TVET, including articulation between programs;
(f)    Determine the facilities and resources required to ensure proper standards of
education and training and welfare of students and staff of the institutions;
(g)    Advise on the overall allocation of resources for TVET;
(h)    Establish and manage an Employment and Training Fund (ETF); and
(i)    Provide assistance to the private sector in the design of training plans.
2.    The ETF would contract with various institutions (both public and private), which
would provide the training programs. Specific goals would include:
(i)   expand in-company training through the provision of financial assistance to
employers (i.e., loans, grants), with a view to upgrade skills of employees
and raise productivity; priority would be given to companies with well
elaborated annual business/training plans; and
(ii)   support priority training programs aimed at vulnerable groups (e.g.,
retrenched workers or those about to be retrenched) for placement in an
enterprise or for installation in self-employment.
Structure
3.    The Council would be established at the Ministry of Labour, Consumer Affairs, and
the Environment. The Council's board will have the following membership:
(i)          Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Labour, Consumer Affairs, and the
Environment;
(ii)         Chief Education Officer, Ministry of Education';
(iii)        Three members appointed following recommendations of the
associations which represent employers (i.e., Barbados Employers'
Confederation, Barbados Manufacturers' Association, and Barbados
Hotel Association;



-59-
Annex IX
(iv)         Three members appointed following recommendations of the Boards
of the Barbados Institute of Management and Productivity, the
Samuel Jackman Prescod Polytechnic, and the Barbados Community
College;
(v)          Two members appointed on recommendations of the trade unions;
and
(vi)         Executive Director of the TVET Council.
4.    The Council would consist of a core group of high quality professional/administrative
staff, headed by an Executive Director. The following committees would be established
under the Council:
(a)    TVET Policy, Planning and Standards Comnmittee to oversee the
preparation of policies, plans, and standards;
(b)    TVET/ETF Financing Committee to elaborate criteria and procedures for
allocation of TVET funds; make recommendations on annual allocations in
accordance with those criteria, national plans, and business plans of the
training institutions; and monitor use of training funds; and establish financial
procedures to ensure transparency in the use of ETF funds; and to maintain
proper accounts for training expenditures.
(c)    General Administration Committee to be responsible for oversight of the
administration of the Council/ETF; and
(d)    ETF Training Management Unit to formulate eligibility criteria for
receiving funds; to monitor training performance and outcomes to ensure that
the training meets the standards; to promote training; and to assist companies
in assessing training needs, preparing training plans, and evaluating results.
Resources
5.    The operations of the Council/ETF would be funded from procceeds of the training
levy, which would be voted from the Consolidated Fund. The Council would prepare an
annual estimate of the funds required. The Council would also have available a consultant
budget to undertake specialized work, commission studies/surveys, and/or assist during peak
operational periods. The ETF is also expected to attract donor funding, particularly as the
adjustment program gets underway.



-60-
Annex X
BARBADOS
HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in Project File
A.    Selected Reports Related to the Sector
Education Studies in Barbados, NACE seminar, December 1992.
Third Education and Training Project Review and Assessment of Salaries and Conditions of Service
of Technical/Vocational Teachers Draft Report, February 15, 1993.
Labour Market Information Report, 1990.
Teacher Upgrading at the Primary and Secondary Levels of the Barbados Education System, 1992.
Efficiency and Effectiveness in Technical and Vocational Education, David C. Martin and James
Porter, August 28, 1992.
Report on Testing, Certification and Quality Assurance in Vocational Education/Training
Consultancy to the National Training Board, A. J. Payne, May 1989.
Report of the Resource Allocation Committee for the Human Resources Project, February 1993.
Curriculum Development Consultancy to the Ministry of Education, J. Faccenda, British Council,
September 1991.
Labor and the Social Safety Net in Barbados, William Loehr, February 1992.
Barbados Education and Training Sector Review, Inter-American Development Bank, March, 1991.
Progress on Major Educational Policies and Objectives, January to December 1990, Barbados Ministry
of Education & Culture, February 1991.
Ex-Post Evaluation Data, Report in Partial Fulfillment of the Terms and Conditions of the Loan
Contract between Barbados and the IDB on the Education and Training Project, Loan No. 201/IC - BA,
May, 1988.
Organization and Managerial Analysis of the Ministry of Education, Barbados, June 1991.
An Agenda for Change- Review of Technical and Vocational Education of Barbados, Association
of Canadian Community Colleges, September 26, 1986.



-61-
Annex X
Third Education and Training Project Loan Request to the Inter-American Development Bank and
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Government of Barbados, February
1991.
Public Expenditure Program (PEP), February 1993, (PPF).
TVET Teachers Survey, August 3, 1992, (PPF).
Medium-Term Policy Option Paper, December 16, 1992, (PPF).
Erdiston College Study, March 1993, (PPF).
Review and Assessment of the National Library System, (PPF).
B.    Selected Reports Related to the Project
Pre-feasibility Report on the Establishment of An Industry Service Unit at the Barbados Community
College.
Report of Secondary School Technical/Vocational Education and Training Reform Committee.
Training Proposals for the Delivery of the General Education Teacher Training Component of the
World Bank Project.
Report of the Audio Visual Aids Department, December 1992.
General Education Teaching Training Committee Summary and Recommendations, January 1993.
Proposal for a consultancy on the organization and structure of the Barbados Community College.
Barbados Language Centre Proposal, Barbados Community College, 1993-95.
Barbados Youth Service, Project Proposal on An Arts and Crafts Program, March 10, 1992.
Proposal for the Agricultural Programme of the Barbados Youth Service.
Feasibility Study: Barbados Youth Service Training Programme, February 19, 1993.
Labor Market Survey, March 1993, (PPF).
Labour Market Research, November 1992, (PPF).



-62-
AnnexX
Appren4 ceship Program Assess_nt, February 1993.
Barbad   Third Educaion and Traning Project, Consultant Report, B.Freeman and D. Rusnell,
Febmary 1992.
In-Service Teache Training Neeid at the Primary and Secondary Levels in the Barbados Education
System, December 14, 1992, (PPF).
Proposed Est of a Technical and Vocaional Education and Trainng Council, January 26,
1993, (PPF).
C      _omputeization of NER/MR , January 1993, (PPF).



-63-
Annex Xl
BARBADOS
HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
Supervision Schedule
Timing                      Mission Composition
January 1994                ML, GED
June 1994                   ML, TED
January 1995                ML, TED, ETF
June 1995                   ML, GED
January 1996                ML, TED, LAB
June 1996                   ML, GED
January 1997 (mid-term)     ML, GED, TED, ECON, ETF
June 1997                   ML, ARCH
January 1998                ML, TED, ETF
June 1998                   ML, GED
January 1999                ML, TED, ETF
June 1999                   ML, GED
January 2000                ML, TED
June 2000                   ML, GED
Abbreviations:
ML: Mission Leader
GED: General Educator
TED: Technical Educator
ECON: Economist
ARCH: Architect/Implementation Specialist
LAB: Labor Market Specialist
ETF: Employment & Training Fund Specialist



3/4     5/L1             7/U    £4      /110  10/1 11/12  12/32  12   t '11 4MIS   is  Is IJ
AGE
NURtSERY SCt400;                                                                           STRUCTURE OF THE FORMAL SYSTE-M
OF
EDUCATION - BARBADOS
COUMtSITE SCHOOL
PAILUAl Y SCHOOL
PtLYrTC"NIC
DAY NGlySEAy                                                          SEan  5IOA S00-
2~~~~~~~~~~~ {                                                                                                UtAIVEnStirY                        0\
GOVEAN"aE1dT ESECgmAAY kI  F. lg SOu_
R* oov and Cuus nlnv
El   Co-awzn Entrw EXnxaitioe                                                                                 PIS
Bi d-u Secog dsTy SdCn ll Cltil.  - Aou.                                       _g                      _4 k
C0   "O_ U_f1 ICXC}: Examninations                                ASSIS1 EO SECCONOAnY                          M&AQNI rYCl1FC
Soocasl I'dot Exmnations in &Sm,v,                                                                        rART-TlUE
+   awfv W  auilti (O8dhnw  co;Cat;k_                                                                          8         ;_-
r E^ditaTec"T Conilk                                          Socia S'dee NJIt" k,-l%d,"                                       A_;t_ 
84chol O"                  '                                on-;,n, Edu.l                               NURSES TRAIHjNG
;.                                                    E1-3 't



-65-
Table 1: ECONOMIC ACTIVITY STATUS OF WORKING AGE POPULATION
('000 PERSONS)
Total Population            Total Labor Force               Employed                    Unemployed
Age       Male  Female       Total     Male  Female       Total    Male  Female        Total    Male  Female       Total
15-19      10.9      10.9      21.8      4.7       3.7      8.4       2.8       1.8      4.4       1.9      2.1       4.0
20-24       10.1      9.9      20.0      9.1       7.9      17.0      7.2       5.3     12.5       1.9      2.6       4.5
25-54      46.5      51.1      97.6     44.2      41.3     85.5      39.8      34.1     73.9       4.4      7.2      11.6
55-64       7.1      10.2      17.3      5.0       3.8       8.8      4.7       3.5      8.2       0.3      0.3       0.6
65 +        12.2     18.7      30.9      1.8       0.9      2.7       1.7       0.9      2.6       0.1      0.0       0.1
Total      36.8    100.8    187.6       64.8      57.6    122.4      56.1      45.3    101.41      8.6     12.4      20.9
S9xe: Satisticl Svice laboLr F,ce 9xvey, 1991
Table 2: DISTRIBUTION OF LABOR FORCE, BY EDUCATIONAL LEVEL
('000 PERSONS)
Educational Level                                   Male  Female       Total
Primary                                             17.0      11.8     28.8
Secondary                                           33.9      29.4     63.3
Univereity                                           4.5       4.1      8.6
Technical/Vocational                                 0.6       0.1       0.7
Other                                                0.0       0.0       0.0
Total                                1              56.0      45.4    101.4
ScLre: StIidicl Svicc Labor Pae Srwey. 1991



-66-
Table 3: DISTRIBUTION OF LABOR FORCE BY OCCUPATIONAL CATEGORY
('000 PERSONS)
Occupational Category                                  Male        Female         Totai
Professional & Technical                               4.2            4.7           8.8
Administrative & Managerial                             2.9           1.5           4.4
Clerical & Related                                      5.8          12.4          18.3
Sales                                                  4.1            5.5           9.5
Service                                                10.0          13.3          23.3
Agriculture & Fishing                                   3.1           1.8           4.9
Production & Quarry                                     2.1           3.7           5.8
Skilled Craftsmen                                      7.1            0.7           7.7
Transportation                                         16.8           1.9          18.7
Total                                                  56.1          45.5         101.4
Saw=  S  SmiLabrPSab Pa wa. 199
Table 4: REGISTRATIONS AND PLACEMENTS AT THE NATIONAL EMPLOYMENT BUREAU, 1969 - 1991
Mah        Female   Total         Male        Female   Total  Grand
Year                                         25  25 +   -25  25 +              -25  25 +   -25  25 +
Registration
1989                                      187   189   455   513  1344    350   213   179   207   949  2293
1990                                      788  1027   772  1379  396         211   121    88   151   571  4537
1991                                     1037  2368   809  2279  6493    159    80    37    51   327  6820
Placement *
1969                                       32   504       -          536    350   942       0    80  1372  1908
1990                                       39   503             4- 42    277   631          0    85   993  1535
1991                                       30   434              -  464    211   611        0    32   854  1318
Ratio of Placermnbt to Registrations
1989                                         ,                      0.40    1.00   4.42   0.00   0.39   1.45   0.83
1990                                                             -  0.14    1.31   5.21   0.00   0.56   1.74   0.34
1991                                                             -  0.07    1.33   7.64   0.00   0.63   2.61   0.19
sme  -  F
' Da for cd pWIminm &Ae bot o d ld.



-67-
Table 5: BARBADOS: EDUCATION RECURRENT EXPENDiTURES, 1991/92
(BDSS 000)
Program and                            Statutory  Non-Statutory    Goods and        Transfers          Total
Sub-Proaram                                                           Services
Primarv                                  47,444         21,502          3,205                        72,152
01. Pro-Prlmary                             627            281             28                           936
02. PrTmary and Composite                46,208         12,975           2,551                        61,734
03. Special Schools
04. School Meals Dept                       608          8,244            625                          9,477
Secondary                               48,013          10,182          1,504         10.807         70,507
01. Examinaions                                                          1,200           464           1,664
02. Transport of Pupils                                                                 2,000          2,000
03. Sbxth Form Secondary                  7,872          2,203             31           1,254         11,360
04. Other Secondary                      40,141          7,978             23           4,183         52,325
05. Assisted Prvate Schools                                                             2,905          2,905
06. Continuation Education -
Young Adults                                                           250                            250
07. Industrial Schools
08. Occupational Training (NTB)
Torfary                                   3,592          2,097            800         35,304         41,884
01. UnIrsity of the West IndIes                                                        22,003         22,003
02. Barbados CommunTty College                                                          7,831          7,831
03. Higher Education Awards                                                             3,350          3,350
04. Samuel Jackman Prescod
Polytechnic                            2,168          1,767                          1,089          5,024
05. Other Insiuons                                                                      1,000          1,000
06. Adult Educatlon
07. Teacher Training                      1,424            329                           120           1,873
08. Other Local Training                                                  80a                           800
Administration                            5,099           778             615             83          6,577
01. Gen. Management
& Coord. Services                      4,180            705            414             83           5,382
02. Audio Visual Aids Dept.                 919             72            200                          1,191
TOTAL                                   104,150         34,559          6,124         46,285        191,121
Note: Totals may not add due to rounding.
Source: Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs and Ministry of Education



Table 6: BARBADOS: EDUCATION RECURRENT EXPENDITURES, TOTAL NUMBER OF STUDENTS
AND UNIT COSTS BY EDUCATION LEVEL, 1986/87 TO 1991/92
1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989190   1990/91    1990/91
Education Recurrent Expenditures
by Expenditure Category (millions BDS$)
Statutory                              70.8       84.9       90.1       94.4      111.4      104.1
Non-Statutory                          23.2       25.2       25.5       29.7       32.6      34.5
Goods and Services                      8.7        9.5        9.0       12.3       11.8       6.1
Transfers                              34.2       43.0       43.3       47.5       56.6       46.2
TOTAL                    137.0      162.7      168.1     184.0      212.5      191.1
Education Recurrent Expenditures
by Education Level (millions BDS$)
Primary                                53.0       61.4       63.0       72.0       81.4      72.1
Secondary                              49.5       60.4       65.3       64.2       74.9       70.5
Tertiary                               29.4       35.3       33.9       41.9       49.2       41.8
Administration                          4.8        5.5        5.7        5.8        6.9        6.5
TOTAL                    137.0      162.6     168.1      184.0      212.5      191.1
Total Number of Students
Primary                              28,519     28,845     28,113     28,845     27,722    27,883
Secondary                            21,164     21,185     21,169     21,156     21,042     21,222
Tertiary                              5,892      5,740      5,616      6,161      6,651
TOTAL                  55,575     55,770     54,898    56,162      55,415
Unit Costs by Education Level (BDS$)
Primary                               1,859      2,129      2,243      2,498      2,940      2,588
Secondary                             2,344      2,852      3,086      3,037      3,561      3,322
Tertiary                              5,006      6,167      6,044      6,806      7,400
Source: Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs and Ministry of Education



-69-
Table 7: PRIMARY AND SECONDARY SCHOOL
ENROLLMENTS AND STUDENT/TEACHER RATIOS
1979-2000
Year      Primary           Secondary         Primary   Secondary
Enrollment       Enrollment        S/T Ratio  S/T Ratio
1979/80         34672           21014                 24         21
34036          22248                  23         22
1981/82         33395           22448                 22         20
32061          21375                  24         19
1983/84         30748           21375                 23         19
29392          21501                  22         19
1985/86         28750           21230                 20         20
28519          21164                  20         18
1987/88         28845           21185                 19         18
28113          21169                  18         18
1989/90         28845           21156                 18         18
27722          21042                  18         17
1991/92         27883           21222                 19         18
27858          21196                  20         18
1993/94         28267           21131
27981          21312
1995/96         27698           21434                 23         19
27418          21866
1997/98         27140           22305
26866          22143
1999/00         26594           21973                 25         21
Source: Ministry of Education



IBRD 24710
North Point                         59*35                                      59030,     B  ARBAD9D20 
HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
F  /  *    PRIMARY SCHOOLS
O    Harrison                                                                      (i)     SECONDARY SCHOOLS
Point
o t  O   NTB SKILLS TRAINING CENTERS
A, /\   BARBADOS COMMUNITY COLLEGE
A       SAMUEL J. PRESCOD POLYTECHNIC
* - ( - \    \ MOE PEDAGOGICAL / ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
-13 15      /            
NE - - )  \<                   @       NATIONAL CAPITAL                                  13015,
PEIGHTSTOWN                                                       0  o    SELECTED TOWNS
* and                                                                        +        AIRPORT
|Edwrard                  Hillaby                                                    MAIN ROADS
1IBlock    2                   a                 SH BA      HILCRS
<   _#/        v/   /          N           ~~~~~~~~Mt. Tabor                   .9
- 13 10  OLETOWN    I   ) '                           I           <           --                                                               13010,
Queen's\        L     -           J    Cuthber                                                  _      _
College  \    YJCSN          /}Mor                                         
PROSPECT           Y              . Maltl's J                                                                  e Is
St. Stephen                      ELRO           rutl                  4CUC                   -  
Brig ton                                -<                                 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~105
arrison                                                   THE CRANE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANUIL
St. Mary's               /olege  , \THCRN
BRIDGETOWN IprinD ARU
HeadquartersSt.0 1M2    3             4     5    6on _                                                                          U
MILES 13 °SR'NU HeodquortersR(3G  ifth                          RNL  ADAMS AIRPORT
ST. L        AWRENCEV
59°25
of ,sad.ro  ~  jfocrT If,q  1300(      VIRGiN ISLANDS
DOMiNlCAN   (US) AND (Ult)    ANGUILLA
South  Pont                           , - Ur                  1ST. MRN (FRI AND INETH)
PUERTO                ANTIGUA AND R ARBUDA
and~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lc                               ST. K hoSoMO rSERRAho(UK
KILOMETERS  1    2    3    4    5    6nJ   7    F                               RAIN AND
MiLES TMjA 3                                    StIlf ,V                                         SrB-RTINIQUE (FR)
ibyi a  'tde              590'                          VNff            ST. VINCENOTE  -
-1t300'                                            od sfoo rd*   is fw th            13'00M r  BoNAlRBARBADOS
inbrno ur of TheWabddfBnk                        CURA,AO (NETH)
fP~dewniln.hwon   d                        -GRENADA
on tmd n  .0r nof imp to he                                                          TIIA
pad of TleWbrd Son roG Tp,DA
ony judqo n on the fSoi                                                                 N
mlotw of ran Wf rihy or oa                                                           TOBAGO
*.d f o, occphno  of
59 35'           mtxh hodories.            59'30'                        V E N E Z U E L A
;                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARCH 1993



