Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22432
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-36340; SCPD-3634S)
ON A
LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 6.90 MILLION
TO THE
BARBADOS
FOR A
BB- HUMAN RESOURCES
06/22/2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not othe'rwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 2001)
Currency Unit = Barbadian Dollar (BBD)
BBD$1 = US$ 0.503
US$ I = BBD$ 1.99
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AVA           Audio Visual Aids
BCC           Barbados Community College
BYTS          Barbados Youth Training Service
CXC           Caribbean Examination Council
EPIU          Education Project Implementation Unit
ESIS          Employment Service Information System
ETF           Employment Training Fund
GOB           Government of Barbados
LMIS          Labor Market Information System
MOE           Ministry of Education
MRSU          Manpower Research and Statistics Unit
NEB           National Employment Bureau
NVQs          Natinal Vocational Qualifications
SJPP         Samuel J. Prescod Polytechnic
TAD           Training Administration Division
TVET          Technical and Vocational Education and Training
Vice President:   David de Fen-anti
Country Manager/Director:   Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager/Director:   Xavier Coll
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Emanuela Di Gropello



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BARBADOS
BB- HUMAN RESOURCES
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performnance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 15
6. Sustainability                                                                     17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      19
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                     23
9. Partner Comments                                                                   25
10. Additional Information                                                            32
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  33
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  39
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  41
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  42
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  44
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     45
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 46
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P006089                                        Pro ect Name: BB- HUMAN RESOURCES
Team Leader: Marco Mantovanelli                            TL Unit: LCCDO
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 27, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: BB- HUMAN RESOURCES                             L/C/TFNumber: CPL-36340;
SCPD-3634S
CountryIDepartment: BARBADOS                                              Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: EV - Vocational/Technical Education & Training
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/21/91                                 Effective: 06/20/94
Appraisal.  06/19/92                                   MTR.  03/24/97
Approval:  07/01/93                                 Closing:  12/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOV. OF BARBADOS/MOE/MOCD/MOCS/MOL
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferrany                            S. Shahid Husain
Country Manager:      Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                     Yoshiaki Abe
Sector Manager:       Xavier Coll                                Jacques van der Gaag
Team Leader at ICR:   Emanuela Di Gropello
ICR Primary Author:   Emanuela Di Gropello
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project's overall objective was to strengthen the human capital base in Barbados by increasing
available trained manpower, in order to enhance productivity and facilitate economic restructuring. The
three principal development objectives were: (i) strengthening the quality and efficiency of primary and
secondary education, and raising student achievement; (ii) improving the effectiveness, efficiency and
responsiveness of technical and vocational education and training (TVET) programs; and (iii) reinforcing
employment services and labor market information.
The general and specific objectives were relevant to the country's educational needs and development
priorities, and in alignment with the objectives outlined in the 1993-2000 Education Development Plan
developed by the former Government. The Government's plan, submitted to the Bank at the time of project
appraisal, targeted improving the quality, cost-efficiency and educational opportunity in both general and
TVET education. These objectives also generally corresponded to the priorities, strategies and goals set by
the newly elected Government in the White Paper on Education, covering 1995-2000. The White Paper
explicitely stated that the major "challenge for Barbadian education twas3 one of quality" and proposed
several interventions for improving student peformance at the general education and TVET levels.
The project's objectives were aligned with the Bank's financial assistance program with Barbados, which
was based on a graduation strategy. This strategy, approved in 1984, provided for a seven-year phase-out
period (FY85-9 1)'. When graduation was delayed in 1991 following a macroeconomic crisis, the strategy
was then complemented by a special economic report called the "Country Economic Memorandum:
Barbados: Requirements for Sustained Development" which proposed a comprehensive reform agenda for
addressing underlying structural deficiencies with the purpose of reestablishing and enhancing the country's
growth prospects. The institutional development, structural change and sustainability goals at the core of
the strategy were expected to be supported by the project's ambitious objectives (including its support to
numerous stakeholders). The project would complement and support Government's adjustment and
graduation efforts by improving efficiency and raising cost-delivery within the education sector, increasing
the availability of trained manpower, and establishing an Employment Training Fund (ETF) for retraining
workers displaced by the econornic restructuring.
3.2 Revised Objective:
As indicated above, although no revisions were made to objectives during the implementation of the project,
it was determined after the Mid-Term Review of March 1997 that the sub-component on policy
development had to be dropped, effectively down-sizing the first objective which included several
cost-efficiency measures. This decision followed ineffective dialogues between the new Government and the
Bank on these issues.
Certain impact targets of the project were also modified slightly following the Mid-Term Review, taking
into account implementation delays. Specifically, the project's impact objectives aimed at: a) an increase of
10% in the passing rates (instead of scores) on national examinations; and b) an increase of 30% (instead
of 50%) of the TVET graduate placement rates.
3.3 Original Components:
The project included four components: (A) General Education Support; (B) TVET Development; (C)
Labor Market Support; and (D) Project Administration.
- 2 -



*   Component (A) was divided into three main sub-components, centering on:
(a) Providing staff training to improve the quality of teaching, encourage the use of information
technology, and strengthen school management;
(b) Upgrading leaming resources in schools and libraries, to improve learning achievement and
increase opportunities for self development; and
(c) Reinforcing MOE's policy development capabilities with particular focus on the design and
implementation of a national examination and certification system, a comprehensive cost
recovery program, and reform measures aimed at improving cost-efficiency of primary and
secondary general education, as well as secondary TVET programs.
*   Component (B), divided into five main sub-components, focused on:
(a) Improving the quality of TVET instruction at the secondary and post-secondary levels, largely by
designing, implementing and evaluating a new multi-level competency-based certification teacher
training program;
(b) Expanding access to learning resources by establishing teacher resource centres;
(c) Strengthening curriculum and program development capabilities;
(d) Revitalizing and strengthening selective TVET programs; and
(e) Reinforcing TVET institutional capabilities by supporting the operations of the new TVET
Policy Coordinating Council/Employment Training Fund (ETF).
*   Component (C), composed of two sub-components, centered on:
(a) Strengthening employment services at the National Employment Bureau (NEB); and
(b) Increasing the capacity of the Manpower Research and Statistics Unit (MRSU) to analyze labor
market information.
The main components and sub-components were well related to achieving the objectives of the project and
supported the interventions included in the 1993-2000 Education Development Plan which specifically
targeted increasing the efficiency and responsiveness of TVET programns through the establishment of a
TVET Policy Coordinating Council. Overall, they were also in line with the country's priorities and
strategies as stated in the White Paper on Education. For example, a major component of the White Paper
made teacher empowerment the first priority of the education reform. Likewise, staff training and
development were at the core of the project. In addition, project priorities including the acquisition and
development of instructional and leaming resources, the reform in the national certification system at both
the general education and TVET levels, the strengthening of curriculum development capabilities, as well
as re-organization and coordination of delivery at the TVET level, were part of the strategic interventions
indicated in the White Paper'. Only the cost-recovery part of the sub-component (c) of component (A)
appeared to be out of line with the country's priorities for the education sector set out in the White Paper
and the cost-efficiency part was only partially in line with the paper. The White Paper limited
cost-efficiency measures to secondary and post-secondary TVET education and to tertiary general
education (with no mention to general basic education) and excluded increasing student-teacher ratios as
suggested by the project but only aimed at improving cost-efficiency through the re-organization and
articulation of the programs.
Most of the key lessons drawn from the previous two education projects financed by the World Bank in
Barbados (the First and Second Education Projects approved, respectively, in 1978 and 1986) were duly
- 3 -



integrated into the design of the project, such as: (i) the strengthening of the linkages between technical
assistance and project goals; (ii) the strengthening of TVET planning and re-organization; (iii) the
attention given to de-emphasizing civil works while focusing on quality and efficiency issues and (iv) the
elaboration and monitoring by the Bank and the Government of a coherent policy agenda with specific
quantitative targets. However, some of the previous implementation problems were still faced by the new
project, such as: (i) the lack of full-time involvement of project staff; (ii) the shortage of counterpart funds
due to a difficult macroeconomic situation and cost escalation and (iii) the weakness and complexity of
procurement procedures.
3.4 Revised Components:
The only major change to components concerned MOE's policy development in sub-component (c) of the
general education component (A). After the Mid-Term Review of March 1997, the sub-component was
dropped because of the new Government's strong reservations in committing to the set of policy
conditionalities. The Govenmment still supported the redesign of the national examination and certification
system and the implementation of the Public Education Expenditure Program (PEP), though pursued it only
marginally through the project. The new Government did not support the implementation of cost-recovery
programs, and cost-efficiency measures were limited to TVET and tertiary education.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The overall quality at entry was satisfactorv based on the following criteria: (a) consistency of the project
concept, objectives and design with the Government's priorities and the Bank's assistance strategy; (b)
quality of project design; (c) involvement of stakeholders in the preparatory stage; (d) thoroughness in
evaluating the borrower's implementation capacity; (e) accuracy evaluating key project risks; and (f)
concerted efforts to integrate the lessons from prior Bank education projects.
Developing further some of the above points, the following elements can be mentioned. The project design
benefited from a detailed set of PPF-funded technical and economic preparatory studies which ensured
high quality of design. It was decided to attribute the main responsibility for project implementation to the
Education Project Implementation Unit (EPIU) of the MOE only after having determined that, at the time
of appraisal, the EPIU was well equipped with high quality personnel with limited turnover who had
extensive knowledge of Bank procedures and guidelines in procurement and financial management. Some
further strengthening of the EPIU was also recommended.
Two main risks were recognized at project preparation: one related to the project design itself and the other
to the external environment. The main risks concerning the project design stemmed from its broad scope
and complexity, which covered extensive interventions, including several policy and institutional measures,
across several areas (general education, TVET programs and employment services) and involving several
ministries . The project design risk was addressed by: (a) foregoing some planned project activities early
on; (b) attributing the responsibility for handling procurement, accounting and auditing for all project
activities to the EPRIU, which had a strong track record managing the two previous Bank education projects;
(c) promoting a further strengthening of the EPIU; and (d) creating an Inter-Ministerial Committee for
overseeing and monitoring the project's policy and institutional aspects. The main risks related to the
external environment centered on the uncertain medium-term macroeconomic environment, which could
potentially have an adverse affect on the availability of counterpart funding. This problem was addressed
by: (a) scaling back the project size before negotiations (from the original size planned at appraisal); (b)
phasing the project over a 7-year period, with relatively low disbursements during the first years of the
implementation; and (c) seeking assurances from the Govermnent on the availability and timely delivery of
counterpart funds.
-4 -



Given this, it should however be recognized that despite some simplifications to the project which met a
recognized need for "ambitious" projects in countries under graduation, the project design remained
excessively complex and the institutional arrangements adopted to manage it, while duly analyzed, could
have been improved. In particular, the Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC) established for overseeing and
monitoring the project's policy and institutional aspects would have benefitted from a stronger political
profile and institutional mandate from the start. Without such a mandate, the IMC was unable to make the
decisions required for implementating such a complex project.
Notes:
(1) The key elements of the strategy were: (i) to assist the Government in the formulation and implementation of measures to
eliminate the fiscal deficit, increase exports and enhance Barbados' access to international capital markets; and (ii) to promote
institutional development in those sectors that are critical for ensuring sustained growth of the economy.
(2) The White Paper planned to modify the instructional methodology used by teachers through the increased use of AVA
technology, modify the certification system at the secondary level through the introduction of a National Certificate of
Secondary Education (NCSE), rationalize the delivery and accreditation/ certification procedures at the TVET post-secondary
levels through the establishment of a Barbados Board of Accreditation and Certification and expand TVET programs.
(3) Precisely, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Community Development, the Ministry of the
Civil Service and the Ministry of Economic Affairs.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall achievement of project development objectives is satisfactory despite protracted
implementation delays. The seven-year project achieved most of its targets and effectively contributed to
strengthening the country's human capital base by expanding the availability of trained manpower, thus
enhancing productivity and facilitating economic restructuring. All three development objectives have been
or are expected to be reached.
The core activities of the project aimed at improving the way TVET system in Barbados was planned,
designed, delivered and evaluated, in order to make it more effective, efficient and responsive. One major
achievement in this area consisted of the creation of the TVET Council and the development of
occupational standards and national vocational qualifications, which will fundamentally change the TVET
programs at the secondary and post-secondary levels. As part of an integrated approach to TVET, and as a
further effort to promote higher effectiveness and responsiveness, significant emphasis was also placed on
human resource development through the establishment of a new multi-certification system for TVET
teachers. The certification process would "professionalize" the TVET teaching profession, making it more
attractive. Another major achievement centered on the development of a state-of-the-art Labour Market
Information System (LMIS), which greatly improved the quality of labour market information available in
the country. The LMIS also reinforced the integrative approach to TVET and will contribute to economic
restructuring and growth by facilitating placements in the labour market. In the general education area,
teacher training, including instruction in innovative school practices and various pedagogical techniques,
was also considerably strengthened under the project. Several training courses were upgraded and
re-organized, then transfered to the restructured country's teacher training college (Erdiston). These
interventions should lead to higher quality in general education. Finally, an overall achievement of the
project was to have involved the main stakeholders in project preparation from the outset. This produced a
strong sense of ownership, which was maintained throughout the entire implementation phase. Given the
stakeholder's commitment, the achievements generated, or expected to be generated, are likely to be
maintained over the economic life of the project.
-5 -



Achievement of objectives was less satisfactory in other areas, such as abandoning the policy dimension of
the project in the general education area after the change in Government in 1994. Since this
sub-component was dropped for circumstances largely outside the Bank's control, the general education
component was rated on the basis of the restructured objectives of the project and, therefore, still
considered satisfactory. Even without these policy interventions, the project still effectively supported the
Government's graduation and adjustment efforts by increasing the availability of trained manpower. Its
contribution to the countrys adjustment process, however, could have been stronger. The achievement of
the development objectives of the project was also delayed and, in a few cases, even seriously hampered by
the deteriorating implementation capacity of the EPIU after project effectiveness combined with the weak
decision-making capacity of the Inter-Ministerial Committee. The Bank was proactive in tackling the
deteriorating capacity of the EPIU, but the institutional set-up could have been improved during the
preparation stage, given the complex nature of the project.
Since most project activities were only implemented from mid-1997 due to delays, it is still too early to
assess the impact of the interventions on the outcome indicators set by the project (and revised sligthly after
the Mid-Term Review). Furthernore, the outcome/impact performance indicators agreed upon proved to
be inadequate for optimally measuring achievement of objectives. In the general education and TVET
components, the three main reasons for considering them inadequate are that: (a) the indicators were all
expressed in very general terms giving way to many different interpretations; (b) no baseline values were
given for any of the indicators; and (c) no monitoring system was put in place to track the indicators over
time. In the case of the labour market component, the suggested outcome indicator [the National
Employment Bureau (NEB) placement rate] was not very suitable for measuring the impact of the project
in the area since it could not capture the impact of the most significant project intervention - the
development of an information system (the LMIS) to facilitate matching employers with employees outside
any institutional intermediation.
Some information was still collected, however, on the evolution, between 1993 and 199912000, of: (1) the
Caribbean Examination Council (CXC) exam, as a proxy for the evolution of national examination passing
rates; and (2) the employment placement rate of the NEB. Although attempts were made to encourage data
collection, since the Barbados Community College (BCC) and Samuel J. Prescod Polytechnic (SJPP) do
not keep records on placement rates, no precise information was available to be used as a proxy for the
TVET graduate placement rate.
The evidence gathered on CXC passing rates (see Table I) shows a very positive evolution: the rates
increased by 24% in English and 19% in Math between 1993 and 2000, exceeding the targeted 10%
increase. However, it is likely that the project contributed to the increase only from early 1998 onwards.
It should be pointed out also that the increase in passing rates was a common objective of both the Bank's
Human Resources project as well as the IDB Third Education and Training Project, thus making it difficult
to distinguish the individual impact of each project.
-6 -



Table 1: Evolution of Caribbean Examination Council (CXC) Passing Rates, 1993-2000
1993               1998                2000
CXC (general)
-English              43% (a)             60% (b)             67% (b)
-Math                 44% (a)             48% (b)             63% (b)
(a) Students with Grades I and II as a % of total students sitting the exam
(b) Students with Grades l, II and III (corresponding to the previous
I and II) as a % of total students sitting the exam
The NEB placement rates (see Table 2) also show a generally positive evolution: the employment
placement rates increased by 12% between 1994 and 1999, somewhat below the target rate of 20%. This
positive evolution, however, may not be attributable to the project, due to protracted implementation
delays. A greater impact on the NEB should be reflected in the future.
Table 2: Placement rate of the National Employment Bureau (NEB), 1994-1999
Year        Number of registrants   Persons placed in local         Ratio of placements to
employment (vacancies filled)  registrations (%)
1993                3203                         335                             10.5
1994                2498                         239                             9.5
1995                1392                         231                            16.5
1996                1250                         283                            22.6
1997                2798                         345                             12.3
1998                1674                         401                            24.0
1999                2182                         495                            22.6
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component (A): General Education Support: Satisfactor
Although this component did not achieve the policy development objective outlined in sub-component (c),
since this objective was dropped for circumstances largely outside the Bank's control, i.e. a Government's
change, it can be considered satisfactorv. Its rating of satisfactory is determined by evaluating the
restructured objectives. In terms of the revised output targets, the impact of the project in this area has
been obvious, despite implementation delays. The quality of teacher training, in particular, has been
appreciably strengthened through the successful upgrading of Erdiston College, which is now in charge of
all pre-service, in-service, and continuous general education programs in the country. Training enrollment
targets have been in fact exceeded. Learning resources in schools have been upgraded. All of these
interventions should lead to improved quality of learning, even if it is still too early to clearly quantify the
- 7-



impact on student leaming as measured by the CXC. To a lesser degree, the outputs should promote
increased efficiency in the education process through improved instructional leadership leading to
innovations in the delivery of education in schools. Some output targets were negatively impacted,
however, by procurement problems, which hampered the smooth development of some activities. Training
was generally more successful than the provision of equipment.
Analysis by sub-component:
* Sub-Component (a) aimed at providing staff training to improve the quality of teaching, encourage use
of information technology and strengthen school management. - Most output targets for this
sub-component were reached or even exceeded, despite delays in implementation.
These activities had to be implemented through the Erdiston College, the teacher college for general
education of the country, which extended its mandate in order to deliver pre-service, in-service, and
continuing education programs for the professional development of teachers, with particular focus on
in-service training. In spite of the slow start which led to delaying the implementation of all activities', the
sub-component achieved or even exceeded most of its planned outputs. At the Erdiston College: (a)
between 1994 and 1999, training was provided to over 800 teachers and 100 MOE officers and principals;
(b) instructional leadership addressing multi-grade teaching and school management was offered through
the introduction of the new part-time Certificate in Educational Management and Administration for
current and prospective school administrators; and (c) training in pedagogical techniques in selective areas
was provided through the new part-time Diploma in Education for untrained graduate teachers, and a two
year full-time in-service programme for untrained non-graduate teachers. The demand remains high for the
innovative programs, especially in administration. All of the courses were accredited by the University of
West Indies (UWI). Erdiston College was, moreover, satisfactorily restructured and upgraded by: (i) the
renovation of the main building, administration block, classrooms and laboratories; (ii) the acquisition of
books and instructional materials, as well as fumiture and equipment for use in administration and training;
and (iii) the construction of a fully equipped Teachers' Centre in operation since early 1997.
- Sub-Component (b) focused on upgrading the learning resources in schools and libraries, in order to
improve learning achievement and increase opportunities for self development. - Most of the output
targets for this sub-component were reached, despite serious delays and shortages caused by
procurement problems.
The Audio Visual Aids (AVA) Department was strengthened through the provision of training (including
several study tours) and equipment, and in its role as a "nerve centre", by consolidating the provision of
software and support to schools. It was less successful, however, as a provider of other AVA materials
and as a producer of local broadcast programs, largely due to the limited acquisition of equipment.
Twelve library resource centres were equipped at the primary school level, of the 15 originally targetted,
as 3 schools initiated self-help programmes which allowed them to develop their own resource centres with
goods of same technical quality. All secondary school language laboratories were equipped with AVA
material for training in foreign languages. The National Library was strengthened as well, through the
provision of books (about 1,600 new titles or 6,000 copies over the life of the project), furniture (10
storage cabinets), and training of staff and consultant services in automating the library system. The
effectiveness of the library in fulfilling its role, however, was counterbalanced by delays in providing books
and furniture related to slow and cumbersome handling of procurement by the EPIU.
In general, under this sub-component, it appears that the provision of training was more successful than the
- 8 -



provision of equipment due to the poor procurement performance of the EPIU. In particular, study tours
seem to have been very effective. Five members from both the AVA Department and the National Library
benefitted from study tours in Canada to study, and studied Information Technology and Management and
Library Automation, respectively. All participants were satisfied by the training received. The training in
Information Technology was particularly beneficial and timely since it preceded the IDB EDUTECH 2000
Project which introduced massive use of multimedia equipment and information technology in schools. In
general, it can be said that, although small, the AVA sub-component acted as a forerunner to the
EDUTECH project.
* Sub-Component (c) centered on reinforcing MOE policy development capabilities by supporting the
design, implementation and evaluation of the Government's education program. - This sub-component
was dropped after the Mid-Term review.
As mentioned before, this sub-component was dropped after the Mid-Term review due to the reservations
of the new Government in committing to what was basically a set of policy conditions. The Government
pursued some of the objectives and activities through other means. In particular, the discussion generated
by the project was useful in leading to the creation of a national accreditation board and a comprehensive
curriculum reform in secondary education. On the other hand, the cost-recovery measures were completely
dropped and the cost-effectiveness measures were limited to the re-organization of TVET courses in
secondary and post-secondary education, eliminating all reference to student-teacher target ratios.
Component (B): TVET Development: Satisfactorv
This component can be considered satisfactory. It is in this area that the project's impact was strongest felt,
despite protracted implementation delays. The major achievements consisted of the creation of the TVET
Council and the development of occupational standards and national vocational qualifications. The
National Training Plan and the occupational standards set by the Council applied best international
practices in their implementation. The "professionalization" of TVET teachers was enhanced through the
successful introduction, within the new multi-certification system, of the Bachelor of Education and the
application of teacher appraisal mechanisms. Program design and expertise in curriculum development
were strengthened in the two main TVET institutions of the country (BCC and SJPP). It is still too early to
measure the impact of all these measures on placement rates but all qualitative evaluations strongly indicate
their potential positive impact. Reliable statistics on placement rates will, however, be necessary to be able
to monitor results of these interventions in the future. Without the noticeable implementation delays that
limited the achievement of some of the output targets and, in a few cases, even jeopardized completely their
attainment, the results of the component would have been more satisfactory. A stronger Inter-Ministerial
Committee, essential to technical and vocational education and training which is at the border between
education and labour, would have probably accelerated the implementation of some of the planned
activities and helped in maintaining an integrated, holistic, and strategic view of the entire TVET
component. Since this point of view was not fully understood by the MOE, there was little coordination
between interventions.
Analysis by sub-component:
* Sub-Component (a) concentrated on improving the quality of TVET instruction at the secondary and
post-secondary levels through the design, implementation, and evaluation of a new multi-certification
level competency-based teacher training program, the development of a cadre of teacher trainers and
the improvement of the instructor appraisal and feedback system. - Most of this sub-component's
-9-



output targets were achieved, and the introduction of the new Bachelor of Education for TVET
teachers was particularly successful.
The framework for the multi-certification level teacher training program (including a Certificate, Associate,
Bachelor and Diploma of Education) was established at the BCC, but only the Bachelor degree has been
implemented at this stage (and the Certificate as a one year program at Erdiston College) . The degree was
formally introduced in September 1997 with a first intake of 26 teachers, and again in September 1999
with 21 teachers, reaching a total enrollment of 47 teachers, almnost doubling the targeted enrollment of 20.
The degree has been considered a success. It applies the best international practices and not only provides
the teachers with the missing pedagogical competencies for the profession, but will result in salary
adjustments within the civil service pay scales, thus increasing the likelihood that new technically
competent individuals are attracted to the TVET teaching profession. Informal research, as well as the
number of eligible applicants who were not selected from the two cohorts, suggest that the program can be
offered at Level II for at least three more intakes, and then Level I of the program is planned to be
introduced. Similarly, also the final level of the program, resulting in the award of a Diploma in education,
will be phased in. The introduction of these new levels of certification requires additional qualified staff,
further development of the curriculum, and more funding, all aspects which need to be duly taken into
consideration by the college.
The sub-component also contributed to the development of a cadre of teacher trainers at BCC, through
study tours that prepared instructors in advanced level pedagogical and technical skills. A global
framework with an implementation plan at BCC has also been developed and appraisal instruments at SJPP
have been drafted for an annual comprehensive performance appraisal system for TVFT instructors.
Instructor use of classroom feedback techniques has increased.
* Sub-Component (b) focused on expanding access to learning resources by establishing teacher resource
centres at BCC and SJPP, and upgrading BCC library. - Initial targets for this sub-component were
not attained, due to the lack of delivery of equipment, books and furniture.
Two Media Teacher Resource centres have been established at BCC and SJPP, but only the one at SJPP is
fully functional. The Teacher Centre at BCC is not in use because no equipment has yet been received.
This is a major issue since the centre had an essential role in training TVET teachers, particularly the ones
enrolled in the new Bachelor degree, in the use of new technologies such as computer-based teaching and
materials preparation. The BCC library has been upgraded through the creation of additional space on the
ground floor and a mezzanine floor, which increased its total capacity, and the automatization of its records
and services (accompanied by special training). However, the mezzanine remains unfurnished, many books
are still missing, and the Audio Visual Room located there continues to be unequipped. The lack of
equipment was caused by the problems encountered in the processing of the last procurement package
(ICB08), eventually resulting in the package not being provided at all. Supplying these missing items
remains an important issue to be resolved. The Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs offered a partial
solution to the problem by providing BDS$750,000 which will cover the equipment costs of the BCC
library and, to a great extent, of the BCC Teacher Resource centre.
*   Sub-Component (c) concentrated on strengthening curriculum and program development capabilities. -
Most of this sub-component's initial targets were achieved, since BCC and, to a lesser extent, SJPP
have indicated considerable improvements in the level of expertise in curriculum development and in
the delivery of program design.
- 10-



Expertise in curriculum development was substantially strengthened at BCC and, to a lesser extent, SJPP.
BCC is satisfied with the work and dedication of the full-time trained curriculum specialist hired to
improve the quality of the curriculum, who has a Masters in Education. Its future plans include
establishing a curriculum department with other curriculum officers to accelerate the pace of curriculum
reform (including the transition to a semester system). SJPP hired a part-time curriculum specialist, who is
accomplishing less. However, study tours, as well as workshops and seminars, were organized to provide
training in methods of curriculum design.
Program review expertise was also substantially strengthened at BCC and, to a lesser degree, at SJPP. The
Deputy Principal of BCC produced a Draft Program Review Manual in March 2000 after his return from
a study tour in Canada on program review systems. The manual determined that a full scale review of each
program would begin with the selection of a Program Review Committee which would coordinate the
preparation of a detailed report and, on the basis of the information collected, submit an action plan with
the report to the College's Academic Board (which acts as the Steering Committee). The program review
is currently in the pilot stage with a full scale review of the Business Studies program. This will be
followed by review of the Electronics and Architectural Studies program. At SJPP, a pilot program review
of the Printing, Autobody Repairs and Cabinet Making Programs is also underway, but no manual has still
been produced at this stage (only some elements highlighted for program review). Five Divisional Program
Advisory Committees have been established and in operation with the main objective of providing
continuous mechanisms for evaluation of the industrial and business programs.
This sub-component would probably have been more successful had a "project coordinator" been in charge
of all project activities identified within each of the institutions. Comments suggested that so many
innovations happening at the same time were overwhelming. More explicit collaboration and integration
between the two colleges would have facilitated implementation. Unfortunately, program review was
maintained separately between the two institutions, reducing the potential benefits of shared learning at
least in the process of such reviews. The lack of coordination especially hampered SJPP, which would
have benefitted from closer contacts with BCC in this area. Moreover, there was no coordination between
program review process at BCC and SJPP and the TVET Council activities in the occupational standards
area. Ideally, the occupational standards developed by the Council should be used as much as possible in
the program review process to ensure both the relevancy of the programs to the needs of industry, and that
the work of the TVET Council is not replicated or contradicted by the program review process. To date,
this has not occurred.
*   Sub-Component (d) focused on revitalizing and strengthening selective TVET programs. This
sub-component was particularly successful in upgrading the Arts and Crafts Youth Training Program
at the Barbados Youth Training Service (BYTS) and establishing a high potential Pilot Industry
Service Unit at BCC.
The Arts and Crafts Youth Training Programme at the BYTS was effectively strengthened under the
project. It was upgraded through the provision of new equipment and materials, and its capacity was
expanded (it currently caters for 110 trainees every 6 months).
In contrast, the Training Administration Division (TAD) of the Civil Service Ministry did not benefit from
the project as initially proposed due to a number of unforseen circumstances. In particular, although
significant investment and support was provided to implement the Systematic Approach to Training (SAT)
methodoloy, little if any implementation actually took place because of the lack of support of the TAD.
No expansion of the division was undertaken either. However, a strategic plan was elaborated by GOB to
- 11 -



develop the TAD in the near future (through the construction of a new building (Project Horizon)) and 2
managers received training in priority areas under the project.
A Pilot Industry Service Unit was opened during 1997 at BCC to provide industry and business with a
source of customized technical training expertise. In spite of its delayed opening and the fact that its
activity was almost completely suspended from the end of 1997 to mid-July 2000 following the departure
of its director, the unit is now fully functional, practically self-sufficient and has a lot of potential since it is
designed to offer a wide variety of customized training programs. Its planned relocation within the
Barbados Investment Development Corporation is ideal for visibility, contacts and networking.
Finally, the BCC Language Centre was successfully upgraded and equipped with the setting up of a
Computer Lab in May 1998, accompanied by several training activities, including study tours, and the
refurbishing of one of the Centre's Language Laboratories in December 1998. This made it possible to
increase course offerings, expanding, notably, the paying course "English as a Foreign Language", which
became an important source of income together with the evening courses offered. However, no precise
information could be produced on the exact increase in income that this meant for the College and on the
exact number of teachers that were trained through the Lab (most likely higher than the planned 150).
These two performance indicators were found to be difficult to measure and not very clearly defined.
*   Sub-Component (e) centered on reinforcing TVET institutional capabilities by supporting the
operations of the new TVET Policy Coordinating Council/Employment Training Fund (ETF). In spite
of protracted implementation delays, the TVET Council was established and most of its planned
activities are underway.
The TVET Policy Coordinating Council, composed of the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Labour,
the Chief Education Officer, the Executive Director and 8 members appointed by the Minister of Labour
based on recommendations, was established in 1993 by an Act of Parliament. However, it became
functional with some delay on the planned schedule for project effectiveness, fixed originally on November
18, 1993', contributing to the shift in the project effectiveness date. In addition, despite the high-level of
commitment of the Council members, the effective start-up of the Council's activities was further delayed
by apparent inconsistencies in the legislation pertaining to the TVET Council and that of the Barbados
Vocational Training Board, as well as difficulties in appointing an Executive Director and apparent lack of
institutional support. These difficulties could have probably been tackled more quickly and effectively if
the Inter-Ministerial Committee had been stronger. They were eventually solved and a suitable action plan
and budget were prepared for the second half of 1997. Since then, the Council has gradually developed
several important initiatives:
1. It prepared a National Training Plan for TVET (1997-2000), which identifies the areas with
training gaps.
2. It published in May 2000 a formal proposal including a general comprehensive framework on
Occupational Standards and National Vocational Qualifications (NVQs) in the country. The
framework draws on the UK one and benefitted from the study tours of the Council's Technical
Officers in the UK and from the consultancy services of a UK specialist. On the basis of this
proposal, occupational standards are being defined for three main leading sectors of the economy:
Hospitality, Information Technology and Customer Services. Special care will need to be taken
that these standards are reflected in future program review at BCC and SJPP and to provide the
Council with adequate staffing levels for extending its activities to other sectors.
- 12 -



3. It established a TVET Articulation Group and a TVET Articulation Coordinator to manage and
execute the implementation and maintenance of effective articulation arrangements between local
TVET institutions. It developed a manual on Articulation which sets a framework for the transfer
of credits between TVET institutions. These initiatives have not yet produced concrete results.
4. It managed the Employment and Training Fund, which was created by the same Act that
established the Council, in order to: provide financial assistance such as grants and loans for
training and skills upgrading; subsidize the costs incurred by employers in training and retraining
of employees in accordance with the criteria established by the Council (up to 75% of the cost is
generally covered by the grant); and support training programmes in accordance with national
priorities set by the Council. Over the time period 1998-2000, the Fund signed contracts for
BDS$ 1.4 million and disbursed approximately BDS$ 1.1 million, covering mostly the private
sector (around 80% of the funds), and priority sectors like information technology and customer
services. Since 1998, around 3,000 individulas benefitted from the training grants.
5. The Council also started, even if quite slowly, to organize some promotional activities, such as the
publication of a quarterly newsletter with the main objective of promoting TVET in Barbados and
creating an awareness of the Council at all levels. It is also about to launch a major promotional
campaign.
6. Finally, a couple of in-house tracer studies on the impact of TVET have been initiated but
activities in this field have been limited.
Component (C): Labour Market Support: Satisfactorv
This component can be considered satisfactory, despite protracted delays in strengthening the National
Employment Bureau, following the implementation delays and other difficulties encountered in installing
the internal employment information system. The Manpower Research and Statistics Unit (MRSU) of the
Ministry of Labour was successful strengthened through the installation of a state-of-the-art labour market
information system accessible to everyone. This system complements the efforts made in increasing the
responsiveness of TVET programs by providing inputs for the TVET Council training plans and, more
generally, facilitating the match between demand and supply of labour in the country. No comprehensive
performance indicator was established however to measure its impact over time. Some measure of
employrnent rates of the local residents could be constructed to monitor future developments. Special care
will need to be taken to keep the MRSU sufficiently staffed to maintain updated the labour market
information.
Analysis by sub-component:
*   Sub-Component (a) concentrated on strengthening employment services by computerizing the
employment information and placement system, as well as expanding educational and occupational
counselling for youths and adults at the NEB. - The initial targets of this sub-component were not
achieved because of the protracted implementation and installation delays which caused the
employment service information system to remain less than fully functional.
Computerization has still not been totally achieved at this stage because of delays due to difficulties in the
procurement process of the hardware component and in the installation of the software. Equipment was
eventually purchased (even if it tumed out to be below the required standard) and most of the initial
software network problems addressed, but the Employment Service Information System (ESIS) is still
currently subject to modification and corrective action. Additionally, the testing of the functionality of the
internal database for health and safety, occupational accidents and industrial relations is still currently in
- 13 -



progress. In contrast, staff training in employment guidance and counselling services was provided in a
timely manner, and of excellent quality. The acquired techniques and skills are currently being applied in
the day-to-day activities of the NEB.
*   Sub-Component (b) focused on increasing the capacity of the MRSU, the research and planning arm of
the Ministry of Labour, to analyze labor market infornation and conduct labor market research. - This
sub-component led to the successful installation of a state-of-the-art labour market information system.
This sub-component was successfully implemented, even if it experienced some delays of equipment due to
problems in the procurement process. Within the framework of a detailed 10-year Strategic Plan
(1999-2009) for the development of the MRSU, a sophisticated state-of-the-art Labour Market Information
System (LMIS), a "premier" model for labour market systems within the LAC region, was installed and in
operation since early December 2000. The LMIS is capable of providing and delivering adequate
quantities of timely and updated labour market information to meet the needs of employers, policy makers,
job seekers, and others. An aggressive marketing policy and several promotional activities of the system
are currently in progress, as part of the same strategic plan. Special care will need to be taken to provide
the unit with sufficient staff to keep the information updated.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No economic analysis was undertaken in the SAR and, thus, no NPV or ERR was reported. Only a short
description of the main benefits of the project was provided as well as a review of the main issues faced by
the country in general education and TVET. The main broad benefits of the project were expected to be:
(a) an increased level of educational achievement in both general and TVET education driven by the
quality-enhancing measures introduced by the project; (b) increased employment opportunities of TVET
students due to a better match between TVET and labour market needs; and (c) improved internal
efficiency of the education sector through the increase in the student-teacher ratios and other cost-efficiency
measures introduced through the project. It is still too early to assess the full impact of the project on
student achievement scores and placement rates, which measure, educational achievement and the better
match between supply and demand of labour, respectively, given the implementation delays in most of the
quality-enhancing measures, in the TVET strengthening interventions and in the labour market information
and placement computerization process. As far as the internal efficiency of the education sector is
concerned, the impact of the project was limited in any case due to the modification in the project's
objectives after the mid-term review. In fact, the available evidence suggests that the cost-efficiency of the
system as a whole did not improve, but even worsened, during the 1990s. Recent figures from the
Ministry of Education show that the student-teacher ratio in primary education has even decreased from the
initial 20:1 in 1991/92 to 17:1 in 1999/2000, and from the initial 18:1 in 1991/92 to 16:1 in 1999/2000 in
secondary education. Total expenditure in education per pupil in 1999/2000 reached about 4,900 BDS$
(2,500 US$) in secondary and about 5,300 BDS$ (2,600 US$) in primary, increasing significantly in real
terms since 1991/92 (by about 50%), without a commensurate increase in the CXC passing rates.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial analysis was undertaken in the SAR.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had a substantial institutional development impact. Local capacity was strengthened at the
general education level, with the application of innovative teaching techniques and school management. It
was also strengthened at the TVET level, through curriculum development, implementation of performance
appraisal and program review systems, planning and coordination of programs, certification systems and
labor market analysis. In particular, the project contributed to creating the institutional framework that had
- 14 -



been lacking in the TVET area. It led to the creation of the TVET Policy Coordinating Council which
became the key actor in the reorganization, rationalization, articulation and promotion of TVET programs
through the elaboration of occupational standards, the implementation of a national training plan and other
noticeable interventions. It also led to a noticeable strengthening of the institutional capabilities of BCC,
SJPP and of the Erdiston College, improving substantially the delivery of TVET and general education
teacher training programs. The institutional development impact of the project could have been even
stronger if an active Inter-Ministerial Committee existed to play its role, and if the EPIU had been
strengthened in a more sustainable way.
Notes:
(1) The implementation of this sub-component had a slow start because the detailed action plan for restructuring Erdiston
College, submitted as a condition of disbursement by December 1993, was considered weak in terms of economic justification
and fiscal feasibility. The plan was re-submitted for approval and agreed on in June 1994.
(2) In particular, the implementation of a fully functional TVET Council, which was created under the responsibility of the
Ministry of Labour.
(3) The Bachelor of Education is a four year program designed to be offered at two separate but interrelated levels. Level I is a
two-year program of study which will result in the award of an Associate Degree, whereas Level 11 is a two-year program of
study, open to students who have an Associate Degree or equivalent, and will result in the award of a Bachelores Degree. The
program currently operates only at Level II to accomodate those teachers who require the latter level of certification.
(4) Which established that the newly introduced Program Review System at BCC would include both the annual review of each
program and the full scale program review of selected programs (each program at least once every 7 years).
(5) In particular, Council members were appointed only in March 1994 and the regulations of the ETF, as well as the relevant
information on the nomination of the three main staff of the Council and clear provisions on the legal TVET framework, were
submitted later in May 1994.
(6) Even if the inconsistencies with the Barbados Training Board have still not been completely resolved.
(7) Based on: (a) the development by Standards Setting Bodies (Industry Lead Bodies) of occupational standards by sector and
national vocational qualification structures (with different progressive levels of achievement and areas of competence,
according to recommendations of the TVET Council); (b) the development of detailed assessment methodology and the award
of NVQs and unit certificates by Awarding Bodies; and (c) the development of curricula for national vocational qualifications
(i.e.for training programs based on the occupational standards, by the TVET Council).
(8) Which does not mean that it did not improve within some sub-sectors: for example, there was a re-organization of the
provision of TVET courses in secondary education and school amalgamation.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
- External factors did not generally affect project implementation. Some international contractors
provided below standard equipment, in particular, computers, which hampered the smooth
implementation of some of the project's activities (notably in the labour market support component) but
that was largely due to the poor and old technical specification used at the end of a very long
procurement process.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
*   There was a change in national leadership in 1994, immediately after project effectiveness. In light of
its new priorities, the newly elected Government decided not to commit to the policy development
sub-component of the general education component of the project, scaling down the initial objectives of
the project. More generally, a lack of broad based consensus within the new Government in the initial
years of project implementation resulted in an environment of mixed signals and lingering uncertainties
which affected the implementation process and achievement of some of the project outputs (the many
difficulties in reaching an agreement on the exact status of the TVET Council is a good example of the
impact that such uncertainties had on implementation). In the final years, by giving priority to the new
IDB project (EDUTECH), the Government took away impetus, human and financial resources from
the Bank project. (Substantial impact)
- 15-



* Another factor affecting implementation concerns the decisions made by the new Government related to
the EPIU, which contributed to a deterioration of its implementation capacity. Firstly, it overhauled the
EPIU with new management soon after it came to power, producing a loss of institutional memory and
efficiency. Secondly, the unit was given substantial new responsibilities which were not commensurate
with its staffing. It had to execute over a few years four projects, with different administrative and
procurement procedures . The large volume of operations needed for implementing these projects, and
in particular the very ambitious EDUTECH 2000, turned out to be beyond the unit's administrative
capacity. Its deteriorating implementation capacity contributed to delays and difficulties in the
implementation of the Human Resources project, affecting the achievement of some of the outputs.
(Substantial impact)
*   Unavailability of counterpart funds in 1993/94 and 1994/95, due to the worsening macroeconomic
situation, contributed to the lack of effectiveness and implementation delays, and a level of counterpart
funding smaller than expected in 1998, 1999 and 2000, contributed to further delays in the last years of
implementation of the project. (Substantial impact)
*   Finally, the Government's weak political support of the Inter-Ministerial Committee further reduced its
impact, making its role in the implementation of the policy and institutional aspects of the project often
negligible, and notably at times where a prompt intervention could have promoted timely action on the
part of the ministries involved. As above, this contributed to implementation delays and achievement of
some project outputs.
(Substantial impact)
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
*   The EPIU, which was considered exemplary for staff continuity and professionalism in the past, went
through a process of gradual deterioration in managerial, financial, and technical capabilities,
hampering the smooth implementation of the project. Part of this deterioration was due to high staff
turnover in both lower management and procurement, with persistent inadequate staffing in the
procurement and financial management area. Both aspects could have been handled differently by the
unit, even if the Government's choices related to staffing were mostly responsible for the inadequacies.
(Substantial impact)
*   Chronic implementation delays were caused by slow and cumbersome handling of procurement, arising
from protracted discussions and correspondence on bidding instruments and repeated revisions to
bidding packages. The difficulties in the procurement process were largely due to a lack of knowledge
of Bank procedures after the departure of the experienced procurement specialist, and to inadequate
staffing in the areas of procurement and financial management of the EPIU vis-a-vis its increasing
responsibilities. After a very slow procurement pace during the first years of implementation of the
project, the situation improved between the end of 1997 and 1998/99 due to better staffing of the
EPIU and the hiring of a procurement agent to handle acquisition of goods and equipment under the
project. Procurement slowed down again, however, between mid-1999 and May 2000, and its pace
became negligible from May 2000 to project closure (in December 2000), due to a combination of
factors. These factors include the increasing responsibilities of the EPIU generated by EDUTECH, the
end of the contract with Betatech, the appointment of the new full-time procurement expert to project
educator, and the lack of counterpart funding. This resulted, eventually, in the non-processing of the
last ICB package (ICB08) which included, notably, the equipment, materials and furniture for the
library and teacher resource centre at BCC, jeopardizing the full achievement of some the project
objectives/outputs. (Substantial impact)
- 16-



* Finally, the EPRU had difficulties in handling effectively the communication with all the stakeholders on
their respective project components, Bank procedures, and the roles and responsibilities of the firm
managing the technical assistance activites. This also negatively impacted the smooth implementation
of the project. (Partial impact)
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total estimated cost of the project was, in the SAR, US$15.6 million financed half by the Bank
(US$7.8 million) and half by the GOB (US$7.8 million). In 2000, the Bank agreed to scale down the
project cost to US$13.8 because of the implementation delays, cancelling US$0.9 million from the loan and
an equivalent amount form the local contribution. Financing cuts affected in almost equivalent measure the
general education component and the TVET component, which were respectively scaled down to US$4.4
million (from US$4.9 million) and US$8.9 million (from US$9.3 million).
After a very slow start-up (by early 1997, only about 7% of the project loan had been disbursed), Bank
disbursements as of mid-May 2001 reached 82% of the new loan amount. The disbursement delays, giving
rise to the disbursement discrepancies between the SAR schedule and actual project disbursements, were
largely due to the delays in effectiveness and implementation, and to under-staffing in the financial
management and procurement areas.
Notes:
(1) Apart from the World Bank one, the IDB Third education and Training Project, approved in October 1992, the CDB
Secondary Education Project, approved in 1995, and the IDB EDUTECH 2000, approved in 1998.
(2) Resulting in four packages for ICB, in addition to the three already prepared by the EPIU, finalized between September and
December 1997.
(3) A full-time staff member was recruited to assist the EPIU in procurement in September 1997.
(4) Consultant contract with Betatech, ending in June 1999.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
It is likv that the project will maintain the achievements generated, or expected to be generated, in relation
to its objectives over its economic life. This positive evaluation is based on the following considerations:
* The Government is generally supportive of the restructured project, in spite of the mixed signals that
resulted at times from the lack of a broad consensus;
* The policy environment is favourable to the education sector, as shown by a high and increasing
education expenditure to GDP ratio (increasing from 6.2% in 1997 to 7% in 1999) and a very stable
share of the recurrent national budget allocated to education (around 18-19% since 1995). The
importance of education also appears clearly from the effort made in defining a comprehensive and
consistent strategy for the sector (formalized in the White Paper and in the GOB's seven year
Education Sector Enhancement Program);
* Most of the stakeholders involved in the project (and, in particular, BCC, Erdiston College and the
new TVET Council) have acquired a high level of ownership on the project's interventions and a
personal strong interest in their success. As a consequence of this, most of them have already made
transition arrangements to regular operations;
- 17 -



*   An important effort was made to strengthen and upgrade core institutions like BCC, SJPP and Erdiston
College, increasing institution effectiveness in the education sector;
*   A comprehensive market-driven TVET framework was implemented, which should ensure more
coherent and responsive TVET programs supply;
*   The better match between labour supply and demand in the TVET area which is expected to be
produced by the increase in TVET responsiveness to labour market needs and increased information on
labour market requirements will have an increasingly positive social impact;
*   The project's activities in the area of AVA and modem technologies provision are being currently
expanded by the EDUTECH 2000 project;
*   Capacity was enhanced at MOE in the areas of planning and management.
There remain, however, some challenges ahead to ensure that the initiatives of the project realize their flill
benefit and are sustainable. In particular, several of the project's interventions are quite extensive and
ambitious and, as such, are quite demanding in terms of staff, skills and equipment. Beyond what has been
provided through the project, it will be necessary to keep track of these requirements over time to ensure
their full effectiveness. This will require strong commitment and vision from the stakeholders, as well as
strong financial support from the Government and the Ministries involved (largely the Ministry of
Education and the Ministry of Labour). The implementation of cost-effectiveness and cost-recovery
measures, up to now under-utilized, will be necessary to alleviate future pressures on the national budget.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Most of the stakeholders of the project have already made some transitional arrangements to regular
operations and are in the process of discussing future arrangements. The steps undertaken and the plans
ahead are sound and coincide in general with the Bank's recommendations. Most of the estimated recurrent
costs for 2001/2002 have been included in the 2001/2002 national budget.
The Bank's recommendations on arrangements for the transition to regular operations focus on: (a) the
provision of continuous financial support by the Ministries involved to ensure coverage of recurrent costs;
(b) the adoption of sound and efficient budgeting and planning practices; (c) the introduction of more
cost-efficiency, articulation, and coordination in the interventions; (d) the preparation of a number of
detailed sustainability studies, which would provide precious information to the Government about sectoral
policies and actions for the operational period after the closing date of the Loan; and (e) the recompilation
of quantitative information and construction of performance indicators by which future achievements of the
project can be monitored.
The Bank's specific recommendations in the TVET area are the following:
*   Carry out a compehensive medium-term assessment (demand and supply) for the 4 levels of the
teacher training program at BCC and develop a plan and budget based upon it;
* Complete a quality assurance audit of the program structure, status, and graduation level standards
to ensure consistency with international accreditation levels;
* Ensure that both SJPP and BCC use similar approaches to teacher appraisal and feedback system;
* Sponsor a joint SJPP and BCC project for program and curriculum, conduct a program review of a
common program area and develop jointly competency-based modules on the basis of the common
program review;
- 18 -



* Base future planning and budgeting for BCC and SJPP on joint program review;
* Procure the furniture and equipment for the teacher resource centre and the library at BCC
previously planned under ICB08 on the Government budget;
*   Recompilate the necessary quantitative information and, on the basis of it, construct placement
indicators to be used for future monitoring at both BCC and SJPP;
* Provide continued budget support to the TVET council and identify additional sources of revenue
and cost recovery;
* Ensure that the ocupational standards developed by the TVET Council are reflected in future
program review at BCC and SJPP;
* Make funding available for tracer studies and overall review of the Council and ETF activities.
Monitoring indicators should include: placement rates at both BCC and SJPP, placement rates at the NEB,
employment rates of local residents (to be monitored by the MRSU), proportion of trained/untrained
teachers in the general education and TVET areas (to be monitored by the Erdiston College and BCC),
CXC scores and passing rates (to be monitored by the MOE) and student-teacher ratios in both the general
and TVET areas (to be monitored by the MOE). It should be pointed out, however, that the absence of an
effective monitoring system on performance indicators in place at the beginning or during the project made
it difficult to assess the project's impact at this stage, and will likewise make it difficult to monitor
developments in the future. There was no explicit recommendation of the Bank on a comprehensive
monitoring system but a recommendation that all stakeholders and the MOE make an extra-effort in
creating mechanisms which will enable them to produce the necessary information.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Overall: satisfactorv
Bank performance in the identification of the project: satisfactorv
The development objectives of the project were clearly consistent with the Government's development
strategy. The objectives were very much in accordance with the 1993-2000 Education Development Plan
developed by the previous Government and submitted to the Bank at the time of appraisal and are also
generally in accordance with the priorities and strategies contained in the White Paper on Education. They
are also in line with the Bank assistance strategy to Barbados (see sub-section 3.1).
Bank performance in the preparation assistance and appraisal of the project: satisfactory
For both areas., Bank performance was found to be satisfactorv. This assessment is based on the following
considerations:
*  The project design was thorough, well-grounded concerning the main sector issues and the achievement
of the objectives;
*   From identification to board, the preparation process of the project lasted more than two years (from
May 1991 to June 1993). It benefited from a PPF of US$0.5 million extended to the GOB in April
1992 for the execution of several preparatory studies (including a public expenditure review and
reviews and assessment of different institutions and proposed reformns). These, combined with other
- 19-



selected reports on the sector and some inputs provided by a comparative analysis of the Caribbean
Region education sector presented in the 1993, provided a good basis for defining the main sector
issues by the Borrower and the Bank, even without any specific economic and sector work on the
country in the education sector;
*   The stakeholders were very involved in the preparatory studies during the preparation phase;
* The preparation and appraisal processes also benefitted from the lessons learned from the First and
Second Education Projects of the Bank in the country. Most of the lessons were successfully
incorporated (see sub-section 3.3). For example, the importance given to institutional development was
incorporated through the allocation of about one-third of the project funds to capacity building and
institutional development activities, including the funds allocated to TVET re-organization and
planning;
*   The main project risks were recognized and addressed during preparation and appraisal (see
sub-section 3.1);
*   The institutional arrangements for the daily implementation of the project, including procurement and
disbursement activites, were duly analyzed, with the main responsibility conferred to an experienced
EPIU with a strong track record in managing the past Bank projects. In addition, the unit was further
strengthened;
3   Despite various consultants being involved in the preparation and appraisal phase of the project, good
continuity was ensured by an appropriate skill mix and the presence of the same technical educator
consultant during the entire project preparation and implementation phase;
3   Finally, the financial package for the project was adequate for the intended life of the project and its
scope.
However, three main aspects could have been improved. Firstly, the institutional set-up for managing a
project involving several ministries and several policy and institutional interventions could have been
further improved. The Inter-Ministerial Committee, which was supposed to oversee and monitor project
implementation in its different components, could have been created from the beginning as a higher profile
body with a stronger political stance and institutional mandate. This would have enabled it to take control
more effectively and with more continuity of the required policy and institutional decisions for the
implementation of the project. Secondly, the project design was still probably too complex, suggesting that
the project could have been simplified, with the IDB (through the Third Education project) taking all the
general education activities and the Bank focusing on TVET. The TVET was in any case the primary
focus of the project and concentrating on it would have greatly facilitated the preparation, appraisal and
implementation of the project, even at the cost of giving up activities in general education which were
relevant to the country's needs and objectives. Finally, while most of the output targets were generally well
quantified, the project outcome indicators were either imprecisely defined or not totally relevant to the
objective expected to be achieved. This, combined with the absence of an effective monitoring system
which should have been put in place, made it very difficult to use them effectively for monitoring and
evaluation.
- 20 -



7.2 Supervision:
Overall: satisfactory
Bank performance in supervision was, overall, satisfactory. This assessment is based on the following
considerations:
*   Supervision missions were generally composed of 3-4 people with adequate skill mix. The general and
technical educators were present in at least half of the missions and stayed the same during the whole
implementation phase (from May 1994 to December 2000) ensuring continuity, quality of advice and
follow-up which were very appreciated by the EPIU;
*   Reporting on implementation progress was adequate over the whole implementation period;
*   The Bank was proactive in addressing the deterioration of the implementation capabilities of the EPIU
which became clear in 1996 soon after the start up of activities, through: (i) the continuous monitoring
of the implementation process; (ii) intensive technical assistance on procurement by sending
consultants to Barbados to assist in the preparation of procurement packages and inviting the
Government team to procurement seminars; (iii) protracted discussions with the MOE on the need to
revamp the EPIU; and (iv) the contribution to the hiring by the Government of a consultancy firmn to
handle the acquisition of goods and equipment under the project and of a specialized firm to oversee
and coordinate the technical assistance component of the project. The Bank was particularly effective
in assisting, at an early stage (February 1995), with the selection of this specialized firm. A contract
was finally signed with the Canadian firm: "Hickling Corporation" which successfully and efficiently
managed the bulk of the consulting services, fellowships and study tours under the three components of
the project;
*   The Bank was also generally proactive in accepting to restructure the project after the mid-term review,
when it was acknowledged that the Government would not have pursued some of the original objectives
of the project.
However, the relationship with the Borrower just after the new Government came to power could have been
handled better. A generally conciliatory tone was adopted with the new Government to give it the time to
develop a sense of ownership of the project and reform measures, and reconfirm its commitment. However,
this largely translated into a "wait-and-see" type of behaviour whereby the Bank would reduce the number
and frequency of the supervision missions in the period following loan effectiveness and postpone
compliance with the covenants related to intemal efficiency and cost-recovery, while at the same time
rigidly maintaining these covenants. This behaviour led to difficulties in communicating with the
Borrower and delays in project implementation while at the same time not preventing the complete
elimination of the policy measures in general education (sub-component (c) of Component (A)) after the
mid-term review. One could wonder if a more proactive behaviour from the outset combined with a more
flexible and creative position on the policy measures could not have achieved better results. The Bank
could have negotiated with the new Government from the outset a modification of some of the policy
measures along lines more acceptable to the new Government. This might have also been an opportunity
for repositioning the project at the core of the Government agenda.
- 21 -



7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall: satisfactory. Both preparation and implementation were generally thoroughly conducted.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance in preparation: satisfactorv
Project design was adequate and aligned with the country's education development plan which determined
the main strategic choices over the 1993-2000 time period. The Government was committed to the project
throughout the whole preparation phase and the preparatory studies were thoroughly and effectively
executed.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance in the implementation of the project was overall unsatisfactorv, based on
several factors.
* The new Government that came into power needed some time to reconsider the project and confirm its
commitment to it. This resulted, after project effectiveness, in an environment of mixed signals and
lingering uncertainties which contributed to slow project implementation and hampered the achievement
of some of the project outputs. The lack of political support together with a rigid positioning of the
Government and the Bank on policy conditions led to scaling down the project objectives at mid-term.
Finally, in spite of renewed support of the Government after the restructuring, the Bank project lost
impetus during the last two years following the approval of the EDUTECH project which became first
priority on the Government agenda.
*   The provision of counterpart funds was adequate and provided in a timely manner only during the
central years of the project implementation (i.e. from 1996 to 1998). In the initial years, the funds were
insufficient due to the difficult macroeconomic situation of the country; in the final years, the
co-existence of several projects in the education sector, including EDUTECH 2000, limited the funds
available for the Bank project.
* Some of the Governments's decisions, which led to changes in the management of the EPIU and an
excessive work load for the same unit following the responsibility conferred in the administration of
several new projects, largely contributed to the deteriorated implementation capacity of the EPIU,
which was only partially reversed through the recruitment of additional staff in 1997. Moreover, in the
last two years of implementation of the project, there were practically no response or action taken to
correct the shortcomings pointed out by the supervision missions (such as inadequate staffing).
*   There was little understanding from the Government and, more particularly, the MOE, of the
integrated and strategic view of the TVET component that the project planned to put forward: this led
to a lack of coordination among several activities in the TVET area making them less effective and
efficient than they could have been. With little political support, and its overall weaknesses, the
Inter-Ministerial Committee contributed to the lack of an integrated approach.
Given this, there were also some positive aspects. In particular, the strategic framework of the education
sector, as laid out in the 1993-2000 Education Development Plan and in the White Paper, remained
generally favourable to the project. The policy environment remained favourable to the education sector
- 22 -



and the continuity in the political leadership of the MOE ensured a potentially favourable background for
policy dialogue as well as a stable policy environment for the project.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Despite several weaknesses, the performance of the implementing agency in the implementation of the
project can be considered, overall, satisfactory. On the positive side:
* Effective management was maintained during most of the implementation period, in spite of the
deteriorating implementation capacity of the EPIU, because of the dedication and hard work of the
project educators, the Bank interventions in the areas of procurement and financial management, and
the contracting of external firms to handle some aspects of project implementation;
* Monitoring and evaluation of the project components was adequate: project progress reports, which
generally included detailed updates of the project's activities, were submitted in a timely manner;
* Financial management was in accordance with Bank's standards as well as the audit reports which were
provided before the deadline dates set by the Bank;
* Bank guidelines on procurement procedures were duly followed after the initial stage of
implementation;
* Use of technical assistance was satisfactory since the EPIU decentralized this responsibility to a
consulting firm which undertook successfully most of the activities.
On the negative side, it is clear that the EPIU has been generally understaffed in the areas of procurement
and fnancial management given its substantial responsibilities. This, together with some staff turnover in
this areas, led to delays in procurement, which was slow and cumbersome during most of the project life
(with project files not always kept in an orderly manner), and disbursement discrepancies between the SAR
disbursement schedule and actual project disbursements (which were also caused by unjustified delays in
the submission of disbursement applications). Lastly, beneficiary participation in project implementation
was less satisfactory than it could have been due to little disclosure by the EPIU on project's activities and
procedures.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's performance was overall satisfactorv, because of the satisfactory performance in the
preparation stage and the fact that generally effective management enabled enough progress to be made to
bring the project back on track and achieve most of its objectives after the difficult initial years (where
implementation was rated unsatisfactory in the Supervision Project Status Reports). However, this rating
should be seen more as a partially satisfactory due to the overall unsatisfactory performance of the
Government.
Notes:
(1) WB Country Study, 1993: " Caribbean Region: Access, Quality and Efficiency in Education"
8. Lessons Learned
There are several main lessons that can be learned from the project's experience.
* A strong institutional set-up is needed in complex projects. The Bank project involved extensive
- 23 -



interventions in several areas, covering several ministries and involving many different stakeholders.
This would have required a stronger institutional set-up than the one that was finally envisaged.
Implementing a set of policy and institutional measures across different sectors and ministries,
providing at the same time a sense of direction and integrated vision to the reforms in these sectors,
requires the creation of an inter-ministerial body with political power and strong institutional mandate
to be able to make the required decisions. Such a body should ideally be chaired by the prime minister
or another strong political presence. The EPIU, responsible for the daily management of the project,
should answer to this inter-ministerial body. The principal stakeholders of the project should be invited
to assist to the meetings of the committee involving them to acquire full knowledge of the issues at
stake and be able to participate in the decision-making process. To this purpose and for facilitating
internal project coordination, it might also be advisable to appoint a "project coordinator" within the
stakeholders who benefit from different interventions under the project.
*   Project design should be as thorough as possible and requires extensive consultation with the
stakeholders. The project benefited greatly from thorough preparatory studies and the involvement of
the main stakeholders in the preparation phase. This led to a design particularly well-grounded in the
main sector issues of the country. The project could additionally rely on a strong sense of ownership of
the stakeholders from the outset. This sense of ownership ultimately made it possible to reach the
development objectives and to ensure future sustainability.
-   Project design should be simplified. Despite the fact that education sector needs and priorities were
carefully identified and incorporated into a thorough design, the project turned out to be exceedingly
complex and difficult to manage due to the numerous components and stakeholders involved. It would
probably have been better to limit the project to the TVET instruction and labour market support
components and drop the one on general education (which was already covered by the IDB projects
anyway). That would have made it possible to concentrate management efforts in the TVET area,
which turned out to be the core of the project. Project implementation would have been probably more
effective and timely. In general, design simplicity should be an objective of all projects in the education
area.
-   Implementation management capacity needs to be strong over the entire project life. The EPIU
was responsible for implementing multiple operations with different sources of financing. In many
cases, this arrangement can make sense for optimizing the coordination of similar activities within the
education sector. In this case, however, the EPIU became rapidly overwhelmed, and its management,
administrative and technical capacity insufficient to handle these numerous responsibilities. The Bank
was prompt in recommending a set of remedial actions. It is necessary to provide for effective
implementation capacity on the part of the Borrower in the project design and in the implementation
manual, but also to closely monitor it to detect any changes in this capacity and suggest adjustments in
a timely manner. EPIUs need to be adequately and competently staffed over the entire implementation
life of the project to ensure the needed continuity, dedication and expertise.
*   Clarity of and expertise in project implementation procedures is required. It is important that
project implementation procedures be fully understood by the Borrower and that the EPIU staff be fully
trained to effectively apply administrative and financial management procedures. A monitoring system
allowing a smooth and orderly follow-up of procurement and financial management operations should
be installed. Using external consultants or firms specialized in procurement and/or financial
management can speed up the implementation process but does not solve the problem in the
medium-term. Special care should also be taken that all the stakeholders involved in the project be
adequately informed of the Bank's procedures.
- 24 -



*  Clarity and relevance of performance indicators and implementation of an education information
system are essential for monitoring and evaluation. The difficulties encountered in evaluating the
evolution of the outcome indicators of the project point to the necessity of agreeing from the beginning
on a set of clearly defined performance indicators, relevant to the project's objectives and easy to
monitor. It is also necessary to create the mechanisms for monitoring these indicators over time, such
as an education information system that produces detailed updated information, linking the MOE with
all schools and other education stakeholders. Education stakeholders would have the incentive to
disclose and produce timely data, facilitating greatly monitoring and evaluation.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Here below we enclose the original version of the Project Implementation Completion Report prepared by
the Borrower (May 2001):
Human Resources Proiect Borrower Completion ReDort
1.0   Introduction
1 .1   The Government of Barbados, recognising the need to consolidate the achievements in
education over the years, as well as in an attempt to tackle certain emerging social issues,
approached the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) in 1993 for a
third (3rd) educational project loan.
1.2   In 1993, therefore, the Government of Barbados with the assistance of the IBRD embarked on
the Human Resources Project.
2.0   Project Design
2.1    The project was conceptualised to support a continuation of the Government's policy objectives
of improving quality and efficiency and expanding access to 'quality' educational opportunities. In
order to address these issues, the project was designed to have a positive impact on three major
sectoral issues:
General Education
Technical And Vocational Education and Training
Labour Market
2.2   To ensure maximum benefits and success, the components were financed accordingly:
General Education Support    US$4.9 million
TVET Development           US$9.3 million
Labour Market Support US$0.5 million
2.3    The project which was co-financed by the Government of Barbados, was  generally well
prepared and designed, providing timely assistance for the continuation and broadening of
previous Bank initiatives. The project was appropriately founded on the overriding considerations
of:
- 25 -



a) providing training for primary and secondary schools staff; including teachers, principals and
Ministry of Education staff;
b) upgrading the learning resources in schools and libraries; and
c) improving the quality of TVET instruction at secondary and post secondary levels.
2.4    While there appeared to be broad-based consensus on the appropriateness of the components
and sub-components of the project, a number of the stakeholders, including the Bank, felt there
was a certain disconnection between the General Education Component and the other
components.
2.5   Additionally, one third of the loan budget had been spent on consultancies and this was of some
concern because of the negative impact on the country's foreign reserves.
2.6   The project was designed to improve the quality and achievement at the secondary level, which
would give rise to greater demand for tertiary education. The lack of resources is a factor that
impacts on tertiary level education. What the project failed to do in its design is to focus on the
direct expansion of tertiary education.
2.7    Concem was also expressed by the various stakeholders that the performance indicators for
judging the achievement of the objectives were too rigidly quantified.
2.8   Innovative aspects of the project were, however, evident in the inter-ministry collaboration
generated.  The structure of the project allowed for significant levels of cooperation,
collaboration and information flows among participating agencies, which contributed to the
successful implementation of the project.
Achievement of Proiect Objectives
General Education ComDonent
2.9   This particular component and its various sub-components were not substantially affected by
such external factors as world market changes or the like. Conversely, this component was
substantially driven by the policy initiatives of the Government of Barbados. In addition, the
continued support and commitment by the government to constantly enhance and better the
educational position of Barbados resulted in very positive outcomes.
2.10   The General Education Component was fortunate to have the majority of the technical
assistance activities planned, scheduled and implemented by a consultant management firm and
the members of the Ministry's staff. The corporate knowledge and experience of the firm and the
staff of the EPIU made for the affective achievement of project objectives.
2.11   Although not as affected as other components, the General Education Component also saw
some implementation delays due mainly to slow procurement. The EPIU was however, able to
pull the component back on course with the hiring of additional procurement staff and the
contracting of procurement consultants.
2.12.  Further, the impact of the implementation agency on the achievement of project objectives was
substantial because it proved to be an important nexus among the various players in the Human
Resources Project.
2.13    All the sub-components of this component were rated satisfactory except the one on staff
training at Erdiston College which was considered as highly satisfactory and the policy
development sub-component which was considered to be non assessable.
3.0   TVET Component
3.1   Similar to the General Education Component, the TVET component was not significantly
- 26 -



fashioned or implemented according to international changes. Indeed, any positive outcomes of
the TVET component are directly related to the emphasis and commitment of the political
administration and officials of the Ministry to see TVET as a significant contributor to the
economic enfranchisement of the country.
3.2    As with the previous component, the TVET segment also suffered from implementation delays.
In fact, this segment, more than any other saw only satisfactory outcomes because of these
implementation delays.
3.3   All the sub-components of this component were rated satisfactory with the exception of the
sub-component on the teacher resource centre and library at BCC which was considered as only
partially satisfactory and the one on the BCC language centre which was rated  highly
satisfactory.
4.0    Borrowers Own Performance
4.1    The success of any funded project, small or large, depends in many ways on the performance of
the borrower. Firstly, as indicated in another section of this report, the Human Resources Project
was conceptualised in an era where the focus and emphasis of education was less
technologically driven than what pertains today. Additionally, like many other projects, the
Human Resources Project did not escape the uncertainty and restructuring that accompanies a
change in political administration.  When the change of administration occurred in 1994 the
design of the project was already completed and accepted.  The concern of the new
administration was over the policy conditions - vis-a-vis cost recovery at the post secondary
level. Hence, the design, of the project reflects, in some instances different policy indicators at
the beginning and mid-life of the project.
4.2    Despite the concerns regarding design, the Government of Barbados' performance with respect
to the project must be seen as satisfactory. At every turn of the design stage, the GOB
nominated a cadre of highly competent technical officers and supported the process financially.
Fortunately, the design of the project emerged in a period when the country's economic and
commercial sectors had stabalised and were showing signs of growth and therefore it was felt by
all involved that the objectives of the project would reach fruition.
4.3    The roles and responsibilities of the participating institutions, while not specifically documented,
were understood and undertaken by the relevant authorities. The extensive planning and
consultations with the stakeholders prior to the finalisation of the design were some of the
contributory factors to the success of the project.
Govemment's ImDlementation Perfonmance
4.5    The critical variances between planned and actual project implementation must be assessed
against the changing educational environment since the preparation of the project. First, within a
year of project signing, a new administration came into office, which wanted to ensure that the
project was consistent with its priorities.
4.6    As previously indicated, the project was reassessed, involving several changes to a number of
the main impact indicators. This reassessment consequently resulted in the delay of project
execution by approximately one year. It should be emphasised that while the project was
prepared and launched during a period of fiscal austerity it was implemented and concluded
during a relatively prosperous economic period. In addition, the project was implemented during
continued political stability and no ministerial turn over. The prosperity was translated into the
satisfactory appointment of key managers, timely provision of adequate counterpart funds and
general support of operational decisions taken.
- 27 -



Im,olementin Aaencv Performance
Disbursement and Financial Management
4.7    The Auditor's financial statements were submitted to the Bank before the deadline dates set by
the Bank. In general, the Education Project Implementation Unit had no difficulty with the
performance of the contracted Audit firm for this project, Brian Griffith and Associates. There
was highly satisfactory performance by the Education Project Implementation Unit in the area of
audit reporting.
Disbursement
4.8    One of the areas of concern during the life of the project was the area of disbursement. The
delay in obtaining the appropriate documentation resulted in disbursement applications being
made to the Bank on an infrequent basis. It should, however, be noted that on those occasions
when disbursement applications were filed, these were generally in satisfactory order.
Procurement Manaaement
4.9    Another area of concern during the project has been that of procurement management. There
has been some struggle in achieving smooth, timely and efficient procurement. An analysis has
revealed that there are three (3) broad areas, which have contributed to the lack of a strong
procurement performance:
a)    inadequate staff in the EPIU which handled procurement for this project;
b)    lack of commonality between IBRD rules and local regulations;
c)    fiscal constraints.
4.10   Admittedly, there was some difficulty with procurement but it must be recorded that the staff of
the Education Project Implementation Unit worked diligently, under the circumstances, to ensure
that stakeholders were provided with the necessary equipment and materials during the past
seven years.
Assistance
4.11   In addition to the physical works undertaken through this project, a number of non-physical works
were engaged in to assist in the institutional and organisational strengthening of the country's
education sector.
4.12   Technical assistance was coordinated and implemented by both the management firm, Hickling
Corporation out of Canada and the EPIU. The quality and the utility of the reports produced
were generally good. Indeed, in most cases the effectiveness and impact of the technical
assistance were generally positive.
5.0    Bank Performance
5.1    At the time of project identification Barbados had one of the most highly developed educational
systems in Latin America and the Caribbean, and rightly the Government of Barbados and the
Bank placed priority on three key policy issues:
i)    the fiscal sustainability of educational spending to ensure greater competitiveness
ii)    creation of job opportunities through technical and vocational training
iii)   economic sustainability through labour market strengthening
- 28 -



5.2    To overcome these hurdles, the Bank supported the Government's plans to improve all of these
areas and set about in a very comprehensive manner to assist the Government of Barbados
generally, and the Ministry of Education, Youth Affairs and Culture in particular in project
preparation.
5.3    Some US$521,144.56, US$21,445.56 more than was originally allocated was spent on ensuring
that the project was properly and satisfactorily prepared. The composition of the Bank's
preparation team was appropriately mixed and the team provided the necessary support that is
so critical during this phase of a project.
5.4    Bank performance was particularly strong, not only at the preparation phase but also during
project appraisal. In fact, the Bank's appraisal of the commitment of the GOB and various
stakeholders, borrower capacity, implementation plan and the suitability of lending instrument
was highly satisfactory. However, in the area of project risks, identified at page 30 of the Staff
Appraisal Report, 1993, the Bank's forecast did not reflect the fact that the economy was on the
rebound and the subsequent need to mesh Bank's policy focus with that of the new
administration.
5.5   In many ways the execution of the project was delayed because the Bank in the initial stages of
the reassessment of the project by the new administration was inflexible on the adjustment of
certain policy conditionalities.
5.6    As previously inferred, the Bank provided invaluable support at vital stages in the evolution of
the Human Resources Project and the same pertained with regard to supervision. IBRD
Supervision Missions were undertaken regularly during implementation and the composition of
the supervision teams was usually multi-disciplinary, consisting of three or four members. These
visits were very useful in clarifying issues of a financial and procurement management nature,
refining specifications and modifying implementation schedules and the technical assistance
component of the project.
5.7    The Supervision Missions also helped to strengthen the Bank's relationship with the various
beneficiaries of the project. In general, the majority of supervision missions, reports and aide
memoires aided in highlighting the progress made and brought to the attention of the
Government authorities major implementation problems and the necessary remedial action. The
evaluation of the Bank must be seen as satisfactory when the critical points are appraised.
6.0    Project Sustainability
6.1    Sustainability of the physical upgrading of the tertiary level institutions can be assured by the
Boards of Management which have responsibility for the management, care and upkeep of the
facilities at these institutions. The key factor which is likely to impede sustainability in this area,
is Government's fiscal constraints.
6.2    There has been a significant addition to the number of teachers being trained at the island's sole
teacher training college. This has advanced govemment's policy of having more trained teachers
in the classrooms. The upgraded facilities and resources will be utilised by all facilitators and
participants as identified below:
- 29 -



Programme                  Target Group            No. Per Year       Time Period
Certificate in Education      Current & prospective school      30         1 year part time
Management and Administrabon  administration
Diploma in Education         Untrained graduate teachers        20         1 year part time
Two-year In-Service Programme  Untrained non-graduate teachers  30         Two years full time
Vocational Teachers' Training  Untrained instructors from
Programme                      SJPP and National Training       15         One-year part time
Board
Induction Course               Untrained teachers               30         Six weeks in the
summer
Professional Development Workshops Trained teachers at the primary  100    As required
and secondary levels
Education SectGor Enhancement  Teachers at Schools i relevant  1000        As required
Programme                     phases
6.3    Improvements in the efficiency, quality and industrial reliance of technical and vocational
educational training at the post secondary level have been assured by the quality of training
received by tutors of the BCC and the SJPP. Additionally, the success of the Bachelor of
Education (Tech/Voc), the Industry Services Unit and the TVET Council have also contributed to
significant gains in the area of post-secondary technical and vocational studies. However, one
major consequence of offering the BEd (TechNoc) programme at all levels or including other
disciplines, will be the necessary increase of full-time tutorial staff. Indeed, budgetary
constraints and the difficulty of recruiting staff in the various subject areas at the SJPP and BCC
may limit the extent to which the full benefits of the project investment can be reached and
sustained.
6.4    Technical assistance and equipment were provided to strengthen the institutional capacity of the
Manpower Research and Statistical Unit and the National Employment Bureau. In an effort to
optimize the benefits of the investment it is expected that these institutions will hire and maintain
an expanded, highly qualified and skilled staff complements. They will also endeavor to improve
and maintain accuracy, efficiency and reliance of economic/social measures and programme
outputs through increased application of state-of-the-art statistical techniques, economic
concepts, technology and management processes.
6.5    Further, this particular project has generated other activities relating to Curriculum  Reform
National certificate, and the establishment of a National Accreditation Board.
6.6    In cases, however, it is evident that the activities developed under the project will be sustained
only if adequate staffing in most areas are sustained. This theme is common from all
stakeholders. Provision will also have to be made for on-going staff training and upgrading -
staff must be kept abreast of new developments.
6.7    The sustainability of the gains made under the Project rest squarely on the shoulders of the
participating institutions. They must take the opportunities afforded by budgeting exercises and
strategic planning to ensure that the systems developed survive.
- 30 -



Government Commitment        Policy             Institution         Economic and Financial
Environment        effectiveness      viability
Component: 1           Conducive to sustainability
Gen. Education
Very conducive to sustainability
Sub-Component: 1       because GOB has committed    Very conducive      Very Conducive     Very conducive because
itself through the various Boards  because this has  because the   the country's economy
of Management to upkeep and    been a commitment  institutions are well  has experienced
maintain its various school  of the GOB through  equipped and well   significant growth in the
plants.                     its White Paper on    placed to meet the    past eight years and is
Education          upcoming           poised to maintain such
In addition there is GOB pledge                 challenges and the   growth and of course
to have more trained teachers in                initiative to increase   because of the
the classroom.                                  training           importance the GOB
continues to place on
Very conducive. The GOB has                                         education
set about to enhance its
education sector over the next
Sub-component: 2       seven years. Part of this    Very Conducive.                        Very Conducive.
restructuring will be the    The GOB's seven    Conducive. All      The GOB has
upgrading and introduction of    year Education  relevant institutions   entered into an
innovative teaching tools and  Sector           will be repositioned   agreement with the
curriculum changes.          Enhancement        and reorganised in   IDB and CDB for a
Programme          this regard.       $400 million plus
Conducive. The GOB remains                                         loan programme
committed to a programme of                                         which should allow
efficiency at all levels of the                                     the initiative to be
education system.                                                   very viable.
Sub-component: 3
Conducive.                            Conducive.
__________________________   _ ________________  Conducive.
Component:2           Very Conducive               Very Conducive      Conducive         Conducive
Component: 3          Very Conducdve               Conducive           Very               Conducive
_____________________  ____________________________   _____________ __   Conducive  _Co du iv
Stakeholder participation and  Transitional arrangements for  Final sustainability assessment
ownership                   regular future operations
Component: 1
Gen. Education
Sub-Component: 1      Very Conducive. At every tum  Very conducive              Highly likely because of the
the stakeholders have had a                               fore-mentioned reasons.
hand in shaping and guiding the
principles behind the initiabve.
Conducive. Again, teachers,
parents, administrators,
Sub-component: 2      students and all concemed will   Conducive                 Highly likely
be consuited in this process and
therefore participation is
expected to be high.
Conducive
Sub-component 3                                    Conducive                    Highly likely
Component: 2           Conducive                    Conducive                    Highly likely
Component: 3          Conducive                    Conducive                     Highly likely
- 31 -



7.0    Conclusion
7.1    The concerns and issues that the Human Resources Project were supposed to address were
wide and varied but critical to the social and economic development of Barbados.
7.2   It was therefore appropriate that the project crossed over into so many sectors and involved so
many stakeholders. However, involving so many parties raised several issues, which had to be
dealt with on a stakeholder by stakeholder basis.
7.3    A thorough critique of the project will, however, show that despite these issues and the difficulties
encountered in disbursement and procurement, the primary objectives of the project were met.
7.4   Indeed, there were many highlights as a result of this project, from the establishment of the BED
Tech Voc programme to the establishment of the Employment Training Fund, from the
expansion in training at Erdiston College to an expansion in training under the Barbados Youth
Service.
7.5    Perhaps the most important lessons to be learnt from the Human Resources Project are:
(i)    Supervision is critical to effective implementation;
(ii)    Appreciation  of Bank and  Borrowers' regulations is also  critical to effective
implementation;
(iii)   Appropriately skilled and sufficient staff are necessities for smooth project implementation; and
(iv)   Institutions and or agencies involved in the implementation of programmes or
components of programmes must pay greater detail to the quantitative analysis required.
Quantitative analysis is also critical to project effectiveness.
(b) Cofinanciers.
(c) Otherpartners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 32 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Table 1: Outcome Indicators
Outcome/Impact indicators   Outcome projected in SAR (1993)              Latest estimate
(and revised by the December 1997
mission)
(A) General Education:                                                   - CXC:
Increase in passing rates on           10% increase in passing rates     -24%  increase in English passing
national examinations          on national examinations                  rates between 1993-2000
- 19% increase in Math passing rates
between 1993-2000
(B) TVET Development:
Increase in graduate                   30% increase in graduate          Not Available
placement rates                placement rates
(C) Labor Market Support:
Increase in the NEB                    20% increase in the NEB           -12% increase in the NEB placement
placement rate                 placement rate                            rate between 1994 -1999
Table 2: Output Indicators
Project objectives and       Outputs projected in SAR (1993) (and                Latest estimate
outputs by components        revised by the December 1997 mission)
and sub-components
L General Education
1. Staff Training
Strengthened pedagogical       800 primary and secondary teachers       Under the project more than 800 teachers
and technical skills of        trained                                  have been trained
teachers
More than 100 education officers and
Improved school                100 MOE staff, counsellors and school    principals have received training
management                     principals trained
Several courses provided. Of particular
introduction of a course in instructional  interest is the course at Erdiston leading
leadership at Erdiston College + other   to a Certificate in Educational
courses to strengthen pedagogical        Management.
techniques
-  Erdiston's main building, administration
upgrade Erdiston College including the   block, classrooms and laboratories were
construction of a teacher resource center  upgraded in a satisfactory way.
Equipment and instructional material
have been provided. The teacher resource
centre built and fully functional
- 33 -



Project objectives and      Outputs projected in SAR (1993) (and revised            Latest estimate
outputs by components and           by the December 1997 mission)
sub-components
I. General Education (conti.)
2. Upgraded Learning Resources
Strengthened AVA Department to     strengthen AVA department                  AVA department strengthened through
become the nerve center for                                                   the provision of training and equipment.
dissemination of technologies                                                 However, while training was successfully
and other AVA resources to                                                    provided and study tours were organized,
primary and secondary schools                                                 the provision of equipment suffered from
and the promotion of school                                                   delays in the procurement
based equipment maintenance
Improved access and use of         establish and equip library resource centers  out of the original 15 schools, 12 schools
upgraded learning resources in     at 15 primary schools                      were equipped, while 3 furnished their
schools and libraries                                                         centers autonomously with goods of same
technical quality
equip all secondary schools with AVA       all secondary school language labs were
material for foreign language training     equipped with software material
Reinforced National Library        upgrade of the National Library            the Library was strengthened through
service to provide non-formal                                                 provision of books, furniture and
education opportunities to the                                                training, but the procurement process
general public                                                                was slow and not completed resulting in
delays in the provision and limited
amount of resources available to NLS
3. Policy Development
Upgraded national examination      develop continuous assessment system by    Following Government's request, after
and certification system           mid-project and gradually implement        the Mid-Term Evaluation Review, this
thereafter                                 sub-component was eliminated.
Consequently it is not assessed. Some of
Fine tuned and updated education   develop 5-year education PEP               these objectives were pursued through
PEP                                                                           other means and notably the White paper
Cost-efficiency measures adopted   raise Student-Teacher ratio to 25:1 and to  in Education.
by various institutions in general  21:1 in primary and secondary education
and TVET education                 respectively
Comprehensive cost-recovery        raise cost-recovery to 7% of total recurrent
program designed and               spending in education
implemented
-34 -



H. TVET
1. Ouwlity of TVET Instruction
New multi-certification level  *   four level multi-certification in place and  technical assistance allowed to create a
teacher training program designed  capable of training: Certificate: 40 teachers;  national friamework for multilevel
and implemented at BCC             Associate Degree: 25; B'ED:20 and          system. However, only the Certificate, at
DIP.ED: 50                                 Erdiston College, and the B'ED, at BCC,
have been introduced. 47 students
enrolled (out of which 25 have already
graduated) in the B'ED. Future
monitoring and evaluation activities will
allow to determine extension of program
to other levels of certification
Cadre of teacher trainers         train 4 instructors
developed at BCC                                                              instructors were trained through study
tours
Instructor appraisal and feedback  50% of instructors use classroom feedback
system developed and improved      techniques                                 a common and homogeneous framework
at BCC and SJPP                                                               + an implementation plan at BCC and
procedures handbook for performance        draft appraisal instruments at SJPP of an
evaluation for BCC and SJPP                annual comprehensive performance
appraisal system for TVET instructors
have been developed. Instructor use of
classroom feedback techniques has
increased
2. Instructional Materials and Library
Resources
Teacher resource centers          establish 2 teacher resource centers        both centers have been built, but, while
established at BCC and SJPP                                                  the SJPP was fully equipped, the BCC
increase use of learning resources         one is still unequipped and unfurnished.
Thus, use of leaning resources only
partially increased
BCC library upgraded              increase library circulation                BCC library upgraded, but important
equipment, fumiture and books are still
missing. So, library circulation increased
only partially
3.Curricula and Program Development
Increased level of expertise in    hire I trained full time curriculum       trained full time curriculum specialists
curriculum development and         specialist at BCC and I at SJPP            hired at BCC and part time at SJPP
evaluation methodologies at BCC
and SJPP
undertake 2 annual program                 annual reviews are being undertaken at
Strengthened program review       reviews/evaluations                         both BCC (all programmes under
expertise, including establishmnent                                           standard annual reviews + I programme
and use of program advisory                                                   under full-scale review) and SJPP (3
committees, at BCC and SJPP                                                   programmes under review). At BCC, this
is based on a comprehensive Programme
Review Manual
improve program advisory committee         program advisory committee was
system                                    restructured and improved at SJPP and
subject to slight adjustments at BCC
- 35 -



4. Selective TVET Training
Increased number of youth         strengthen Barbados Youth Training       the Arts and Crafts Program at the BYTC
prepared to be employed or        Service                                   was upgraded and expanded: it currently
become entrepreneurs in the arts                                            accounts for 110 trainees every 6 months
and crafts business
Public sector training expanded                                             no upgrading and expansion of the TAD
and upgraded                      equip 2 new training rooms in the Training  was undertaken due to the high costs of
Administration Division                  bids presented. However, a strategic plan
has been elaborated to develop the TAD
expand participation at the TAD by about  in the immediate future. Also, 2
200 annually                             managers received training in priority
training areas
Capacity to design and develop
customized short-term training for  create BCC Industry Service Unit        Industry Service Unit created,
business and industry developed   operational and self-sufficient by project  fully-functional and practically
completion                               self-sufficient
Availability and quality of
language instruction at secondary  upgrade and equip BCC Language Center    BCC Language Center was upgraded and
and tertiary levels improved                                                equipped
train 150 teachers                       many teachers were trained (difficult to
say how many exactly)
30% increase in income from BCC          paying courses for private customers
Language Center                          were expanded (exact increase in income
from these courses not known)
- 36 -



5. TVET Policy Coordinating Council
A high level national TVET
council established to:                                                       TVET Council was created through an
act of Parliament and is currently fully
- elaborate TVET policies and      produce an annual TVET plan                operational, even if start-up was difficult
plans
a national TVET training plan was
produced
- establish performance            produce performance targets for tertiary   occupational standards are being defined
targets for public TVET            TVET programs                              for 3 pilot sectors: IT, Tourism and
programs                                                                      Customer Service. Occupational
standards will lead in the near future to a
system of formal certification and to new
TVET curricula and performance targets
produce articulation agreements            a TVET Articulation Group and a TVET
- coordinate TVET programs                                                   Articulation Coordinator were
established and a manual on Articulation
was developed: however no concrete
articulation agreements up to now
use 80% of the ETF program for private     ETF was created and budget is allocated
- manage the Employment and       sector training                            mostly for training in the private sector.
Training Fund                                                               Since 1998, ETF accounted for around
3,000 beneficiaries.
produce promotional campaigns              limited results achieved as of today.
- improve the status of TVET                                                 However, a major promotional campaign
has been designed and will be soon
launched
complete studies in the following areas:   tracer studies and evaluations are still to
- conduct research to evaluate the  - secondary TVET reform                  be conducted. At present, just a couple of
- graduate tracer studies                  tracer studies have been initiated
impact of TVET programs         - BCC and SJPP mandate and
structure
- TVET project evaluation
IIL Labor Market Support
1. National Employment Bureau
Strengthened employment            computerize employment and placement       Employment Services Information
services at NEB                    system in function at NEB                  System was installed but still not fully
functional. Internal database was
installed and upgraded, but still not fully
strengthened educational and occupational  functional
counseling
technical assistance received was of
excellent quality and allowed to increase
quality of counseling capacity
-37 -



2. MRSU
Increased capacity of MRSU to      produce high quality timely labor market   a state-of-the-art Labour Market
analyze and disseminate labor      reports                                    Information System (LMIS), capable of
market information                                                            producing high quality timely labor
market reports, was installed and is fully
operational. Given its leadership in this
sector, Barbados will lead an initiative to
create a similar system among Caribbean
countries. Marketing and promotion of
the LMIS is in progress based on a
10-year strategic plan for the
development of the MRSU
- 38 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Table 1: Project Cost by Component (in US $ million equivalent)
Appraisal        Actual/Latest       Percentage of Appraisal
Estimates        estimate
Project Cost By Component    US$ million      US$ million               %
A. General Education
Support
I.Staff Training              1.70               1.50                  88%
2.Learning Resources          2.60               1.20                  46%
3.Policy Development          0.40                0                    0%
Sub-Total                     4.70               2.70                  57%
B.TVET Development
1.TVET Instruction            0.90               0.21                 23%
2.Learning Resources          2.10               1.09                  52%
3.Curriculum and Program      0.30               0.18                  60%
Development
4.Selective TVET Programs     2.20               1.76                  80%
5.Institutional Development   3.50               0.89                  25%
Sub-Total                     9.00               4.13                  46%
C Labor Market Support
I.Employment Services         0.30               0.42                 140%
2.Labor Market Information    0.20               0.35                 175%
Sub-Total                     0.50               0.77                 154%
D. Project                    1.40               0.70                  50%
Preparation/Administration
and Project Preparation
Facility
Total Project Costs           15.60              8.30                  53%
Table 2: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million
equivalent)
Expenditure Category   ICB     Procurement Method                   Total Cost
NCB          Other2     N. B.F.    TtlCs
1. Works             0.00         1.60          0.00       0.00         1.60
2. Goods             2.20         1.50          0.70       0.00         4.40
3. Services          0.00         0.00          6.20       0.00         6.20
4. Miscellaneous     0.00         0.00          0.20       0.00         0.20
5. Miscellaneous     0.00         0.00          0.50        0.0         0.50
6. Miscellaneous     0.00         0.00          0.00       2.70         2.70
Total             2.20         3.10          7.60       2.70        15.60
Table 2-bis: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million
- 39 -



equivalent)
Expenditure Category   ICB     Procurement Method           N B. F.       Total Cost
NOB          Other2         ...         TtlCs
1. Works             1.22         0.00          0.00         0.00            1.22
2. Goods              1.59        0.00          0.85         0.00            2.44
3. Services          2.71         0.00          0.72         0.00            3.43
4. Miscellaneous     0.00         0.00          0.00         0.55            0.55
5. Miscellaneous     0.00         0.00          0.00         0.65            0.65
6. Miscellaneous     0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00            0.00
Total             5.52         0.00           1.57      1.20              8.29
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include
contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through international and national shopping, negotiated
purchases for books and journals, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project
management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Table 3: Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Components                          Appraisal           Actual/           Percentage
Estimate           Latest                of
Estimates          Appraisal
WB    GOB   WB    GOB    WB    GOB
A. General Education Support                ___
L.Staff Training                      0.90      0.90     0.70      0.79     77%        88%
2.Learning Resources                   1.90     0.70     0.54      0.66      28%       94%
3.Policy Development                  0.10      0.20     0.00      0.00      0%        100%
Sub-Total                             2.90      1.80     1.23      1.45      42%       80%
B. TVET Development
L.TVET Instruction                    0.60      0.20     0.14      0.07     23%        35%
2.Learning Resources                   1.20     0.90     0.30      0.76      25%        84%
3.Curriculum and Program Development  0.10      0.20     0.16      0.03     160%        15%
4.Selective TVET Programs              1.20     1.00     1.20      0.56     100%        56%
5.Institutional Development            1.50     2.10     0.38      0.51      25%        24%
Sub-Tota1                             4.60      4.40     2.18      1.93      47%        44%
C. Labor Market Support                                       _
l.Employment Services                 0.20      0.00     0.34      0.09     170%       900%
2.Labor Market Information            0.20      0.00     0.31      0.04     155%       400%
Sub-Total                             0.40      0.00     0.65      0.13     163%       1300%
D. Project Preparation/Administration  0.50     0.90     0.52      0.18     104%       20%
and Project Preparation Facility                                                         _
Total Project Costs                  8.40       7.20     4.60      3.69      55%        51%
-40 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic analysis was undertaken in the SAR and, thus, no NPV or ERR was reported. Only a short
description of the main benefits of the project was provided as well as a review of the main issues faced by
the country in general education and TVET. The main benefits of the project were expected to be: (a) an
increased level of educational achievement in both general and TVET education driven by the
quality-enhancing measures introduced by the project; (b) increased employment opportunities of TVET
students due to a better match between TVET and labour market needs; and (c) improved intemal
efficiency of the education sector through higher pupil-teacher ratios and other cost-efficiency measures
introduced by the project.
It is too early to gage the full impact of the project on student achievement scores and employment
placement rates, due to implementation delays in the quality-enhancing measures, the TVET strenghtening
interventions, and the labour market information and placement computerization process. As for intemal
efficiency in the education sector, the project's impact was minimal due to the modification in the project's
objectives after the Mid-term Review. In fact, available evidence suggests that the cost-efficiency of the
system as a whole not only did not improve, but actually worsened, during the 1990s. (Although it may
have improved within some sub-sectors. For example, there was a re-alignment of the provision of TVET
courses in secondary education and school amalgamation). Recent Ministry of Education's figures show
that the student-teacher ratio in primary education even decreased from the initial 20:1 in 1991/92 to 17:1
in 1999/2000, and the student-teacher ratio in secondary education decreased from the initial 18:1 in
1991/92 to 16:1 in 1999/2000. Total expenditure per student increased significantly (about 50%) in real
terms by 1999/2000 since the baseline 1991/92 figures, reaching about 4,900 BDS$ (US$2,500 ) and
about 5,300 BDS$ (US$2,600 ) in secondary and primary, respectively, without a commensurate increase
in the CXC passing rates.
-41 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty              Performa ce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                        Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
November/1990                 1   Technical Educator
May/1991                      1   TM-Operations Officer
I   General Educator
1   Teacher Training
December/1991                 1   TM-Operations Officer
I   Economist
March/1992                    1   TM-Operations Officer
I   Economist
I   Educator
I   Architect
I   Technical Educator
Appraisal/Negotiation
June/1992                     1   TM-Economist
I   Educator
1   Technical Educator
I   Architect/impl. spec.
February/1 993                1   TM-Operations Officer
I   Economist
I   Technical Educator
Supervision
April/1994                    1   TM-Economist                         S              S
I   Economist
1   Arquitect
February/1995                 I   TM-Economist                         U              S
May/1996                      I   Technical Educator                   U              U
1   TM-Economist
March/1997                    I   Technical Educator                   U              U
1   General Educator
I   TM-Economist
-42 -



Deceznber/I 997               1   Economist                            S             U
I   General Educator
I   Technical Educator
October/1998                  I   TM-Economist                         S             S
I   General Educator
I   Technical Educator
I   Education Economist
I   Financial Management
I   Procurement
May/l999                      I   TM-Economist                         S              S
I   General Educator
I   Technical Educator
I   Procurement
I   Project Advisor
I   Education Specialist
December/1999                 I   General Educator                     S              S
I   Technical Educator
I   Financial Management
June/2000                     I   TM-Economist                         S              S
I   Technical Educator
I   Education Specialist
December/2000                 I   TM-Economist                         U              S
I   Procurement
1   Economist
I   Impact indicators
ICR
May/2001                      1    TL-Economist                        S              S
(b) Staff:
|     Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
__________________                 No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                40.0                     97,436.00
Appraisal/Negotiation                       6.3                    16,927.00
Supervision                               70.5                    238,024.55
ICR                                       4.81                     15,000.00
Total                                   121.61                    367,387.55
-43-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
0 Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
F Sector Policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
F Physical                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Financial                               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
fS Institutional Development              O H  * SU O M  O N  0 NA
FS Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
N Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Gender                            OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)           OH  OSUOM  O N  O NA
 Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
 Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
El Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 44 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
Z Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
 Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU   OHU
F Overall                                            OHS OS  O  u  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
Z Preparation                                        OHS Os   OU   OHU
F Government implementation performance              O HS OS  O  U  O HU
Z Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S  O  U  O HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS OU OHU
-45 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. World Bank: Aide-Memoires of Preparation, Pre-Appraisal, Appraisal and Post-Appraisal Missions
from May 1991 to February 1993
2. World Bank: Staff Appraisal Report. Barbados- Human Resources Project - June 1993.
3. World Bank: Loan Agreement. Barbados-Human Resources Project - Loan number 3634 BAR, August
1993
4. World Bank: Memorandum and Recommendations of the President of the IBRD to the Executive
Directors on  a proposed loan in an amount equivalent to US$7.8 million to Barbados for a Human
Resources Project - June 1993
5. World Bank: Project Status Reports and Aide-Memoires of Supervision Missions from April 1994 to
December 2000
6. Freeman, Bob: Review of TVET Component - Report prepared for the ICR - May 2001
7. GOB/Education Project Implementation Unit: Final Project Status Report - January 2001
8. Progress and Sustainability Reports submitted by all the Stakeholders - Fall 2000
9. GOB/Ministry of Education: Miniature Digest of Education Statistics - various issues
10. GOB: Government's Estimates - 2000-2001
11. GOB/Manpower Research and Statistical Unit: Strategic Plan April 1999 to March 2009 - December
2000
12. GOB/National Employment Bureau: Annual Report of the Departmnent of Labour - 1997-1999
13. Barbados Community College: Programme Review Manual - March 2000
14. Caribbean Examination Council: Statistical Bulletin - various issues
15. GOB/Ministry of Labour: Technical and Vocational Education and Training Council Act - November
1993
16. GOB/Ministry of Education: Rationale and Guidelines for Curriculum Reform in Barbados - July 2000
17. GOB/Ministry of Education: White Paper on Education Reform - July 1995
18. UNESCO: Education for All - Barbados Report - September 1999
-46 -



IBRD 24710
North Point                                                             90'BARBADOS   5925s
HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
/     <*  PRIMARY SCHOOLS
ciHarrison   /            \                                         (i)    SECONDARY SCHOOLS
Point                                                       o      NTB SKILLS TRAINING CENTERS
/& 9\  BARBADOS COMMUNITY COLLEGE
A      SAMUEL J. PRESCOD POLYFECHNIC
)  X*  MOE PEDAGOGICAL /ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
NATIONAL CAPITAL                            13015'
SPEIGHTST                                                                OWN 0{   > o  SELECTED TOWNS
oint                  DOA    (US) AN * AIRPURT
11 Ed..rdst I                                                                                            T TIlDby    MAIN ROADS
\\  Block )       5               )  BATHSHEBA                                                  S HILLI{T
Ab            r  |          y          ~~~~~~~~~~Mt. Tabor ~       
KHLEOMETE)/RS'9                                                     \ 
13,0,13MLE 10' 1 MARTINIQUR
Queen'.,       /    /       , /       Cuhert    J                  ~ ~
College            4 JCSO            Moore        rI                                          ,
PROSPECT                                                                                       Bo If.Mte'       d \g Balys   J(
j;t. Stephen'sl JL/  t_ ELLERTONfl/ CHURCH \  \>s                                                          S I
arrisorYl    YZcollege  5   t                              T     H      E   CRANE
St.McColleoe o
B2lD(iETOW~~~~~ringer~ 
1300'                                         ffotMOE                                                                          13.05 J I  - {  the  130OS'
Headquars    thias                           th. od    shows
0t9              -7  Vl#t}5nthe lRON ISLANDS
. DOtIMIN,  o(US) AD Ir                        AtA
Saufos  Poiet s                                 -- G crec ST   (FR) Aye(NFI)
'F-UF21D                 ANTKIGU AND BARSMJ
Kil:lMETRS t 1   12   3   4                                                   (US         AM ZUMU 4         (  ,,
i                                                                                   <4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DOU*kiNA
Sti 4                                                             TM SCA I1SffA    <MNiUE (FR)
t3~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~soh  for r               w - e -mw           130'-            ONAIRE (NETH)    Sl &WPf   @
,sthb5U5 .             59aQ'                     VEdN EZRUELNA
MARCH 1993



