Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3634 BAR
Loan Agreement
(Human Resources Project)
between
BARBADOS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 18, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3634 BAR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 18, 1993, between BARBADOS (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Page  2
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Annual Work Program" means each of the annual work programs referred to 
in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement and which program has been reviewed and approved 
by the Bank;
(b)
"AVA Department" means the Audio Visual Aids Department within the MOE 
(as hereinafter defined);
(c)
"BCC" means the Barbados Community College; 
 
(d)
"CARICOM" means the Caribbean Common Market created by the General Treaty 
for the Caribbean Community signed at Chaguaramas, Trinidad and Tobago, on July 4, 
1973 by Antigua, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, 
Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis, Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Trinidad and Tobago; 
and
(e)
"Education Expenditure Program" means the Borrower's five-year program, 
referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement, most recently approved by the Bank;
(f)
"EPIU" means the unit, established within MOE, with the responsibility of 
coordinating the implementation of the Project as informed in the Borrower's letter to 
the Bank dated May 13, 1993;
(g)
"ETF" means the employment and training fund to be established and 
managed by the TVET Council (as hereinafter defined) for purposes of expanding 
in-company training through the provision of financial assistance to businesses and of 
supporting training programs for displaced workers;
(h)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's Fiscal Year commencing on April 1 and 
ending on the following March 31;
(i)
"Interministerial Committee" means the committee established by the 
Borrower's Cabinet for purposes of the overall coordination of the policy and 
institutional aspects of the Project as indicated in the Borrower's letter to the Bank 
dated May 13, 1993;
(j)
"MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education;
 
(k)
"MRSU" means the Manpower Research and Statistics Unit within the 
Borrower's Ministry of Labour, Consumer Affairs and the Environment;
(l)
"NEB" means the Borrower's National Employment Bureau within the 
Borrower's Ministry of Labour, Consumer Affairs and the Environment;
(m)
"NTB" means the Borrower's National Training Board established under the 
Borrower's Occupational Training Act, Chapter 42 of the laws of Barbados dated October 
1, 1979;
(n)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the agreement letter PPF No. P184-0BAR 
dated April 9, 1992;
(o)
"SJPP" means MOE's Samuel Jackman Prescod Polytechnic;
 
(p)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(q)
"TVET" means technical and vocational education and training;
 
(r)
"TVET Council" means a statutory council to be established within the 
Ministry of Labour, Consumer Affairs and the Environment, such council to be assigned, 
Page  3
inter alia, with the responsibility of planning and coordinating TVET programs and 
establishing and managing the ETF;
(s)
"TVET Study" means the study entitled "Review and Assessment of Salaries 
and Conditions of Service of Technical/Vocational Teachers" dated December 1992 and 
financed under the Project Preparation Advance; and
(t)
"UWI" means the University of the West Indies.
 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of seven million eight hundred 
thousand dollars ($7,800,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the 
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank of Barbados on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
Page  4
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and educational practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement and each Annual Work Program.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan  shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 (a) (iii) of 
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank:
(a)
not later than January 31 and July 31 of each year during Project 
execution, starting on January 31, 1994, semi-annual progress reports on the Project, 
of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including, inter alia: 
(i) a section detailing progress in implementation of each Part of the Project in the 
previous semester; and (ii) specific and justified proposals for adjustments in 
Project implementation based on the results of the previous semester; and
(b)
for its review and approval, not later than January 31 of each year 
during Project execution, a proposed annual work program providing for the activities, 
implementation schedule and proposed budget in respect of each part of the Project 
during the upcoming Fiscal Year.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than March 31 of each year during the execution of the Project, 
starting in 1994, hold annual reviews with the Bank, such reviews to be based on the 
Page  5
reports referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement and to focus, inter alia, on 
the following items: (i) evaluation of the progress in the execution and in the 
achievement of the objectives of the Project based on, among other factors, monitoring 
and evaluation indicators satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) discussions of the proposed 
annual work program for the upcoming Fiscal Year; and (iii) any changes in Project 
implementation that may be necessary;
(b)
in respect of the annual review to be held in 1997 (mid-term review), 
review with the Bank, in addition to the items referred to in (a) above, the 
following: (i) progress in reforming  the national examination and certification 
system and introducing continuous diagnostic assessment tests; (ii) progress in the 
implementation of the action plan and the program referred to in paragraphs 2 and 4, 
respectively, of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; (iii) progress in the implementation of 
the recommendations of the TVET Study; (iv) progress in the improvement of the 
advisory system for TVET institutions including the industry advisory committees; and 
(v) performance of the TVET Council including the operation of the ETF; and
(c)
without limitation or restriction to any of the Bank's rights under this 
Agreement, if as a result of any of the above annual reviews, progress in the 
execution of the Project or in the achievement of the objectives of the Project is not 
satisfactory to the Bank, the Borrower shall take or cause to be taken remedial 
action, satisfactory to the Bank, to achieve such  objectives or to carry out the 
Project as provided in this Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) furnish to the Bank for its review and 
approval, not later than January 31 of each year during the execution of the Project 
starting in 1994, its proposed program of expenditures for the education sector, 
including recurrent and capital expenditures and sources of financing for the 
following five Fiscal Years; (b) furnish to the Bank, not later than May 31 of each 
year during the execution of the Project, starting in 1994, evidence, satisfactory to 
the Bank, of the expenditures incurred in the education sector for the immediately 
preceding previous year; and (c) carry out the Education Expenditure Program.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
Page  6
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the legislation enacted pursuant 
to Section 6.01 (a) of  this Agreement shall have been abrogated, amended, waived, 
repealed, suspended or altered in any other manner which, in the opinion of the Bank, 
would adversely and materially affect the implementation of the Project, the 
achievement of the objectives of the Project or the compliance by the Borrower with 
the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has taken all necessary and adequate action to: (i) 
establish the TVET Council, including the ETF, with an organizational structure, 
powers and staff satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) limit the mandate of the NTB to 
the provision of basic vocational skills training;
(b)
the TVET Council has adopted a set of regulations, satisfactory to the 
Bank, setting forth the terms and conditions under which the ETF will operate; and
(c)
the TVET Council has appointed an executive director, an administrative 
and financial officer and an expert in training fund management, all with functions, 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
(a)
the action taken pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement is valid 
and sufficient under the laws of Barbados; and 
(b)
the regulations referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement have 
been validly issued.
Section 6.03. The date November 18, 1993 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Director of Finance and Economic Affairs of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
Government Headquarters
Page  7
Bay Street,
St. Michael, Barbados
Telex:
2222 Foreign WB
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
BARBADOS
By /s/ Rudi Webster
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yoshiaki Abe
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                  300,000        20%
(2) Goods                      3,300,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                85% of local
                                                expenditures
(3) Consultants'              2,400,000         100% of foreign
Page  8
    Services                                    expenditures and
                                                35% of local
                                                expenditures
(4) Overseas Fellowships         500,000        100% of foreign
    and Study tours                             expenditures
(5) Refunding of                 500,000        Amounts due pur-
    Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
    tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(6) Unallocated                  800,000
         TOTAL                 7,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures incurred under Part A.1 (f) of the 
Project, unless the Bank has received final design plans, cost estimates and technical 
specifications, all satisfactory to the Bank, related to 
the upgrading of Erdiston College.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objective of the Project is to strengthen the human capital base in 
Barbados by expanding the availability of trained manpower. Specific objectives are 
to: (a) strengthen the quality and efficiency of basic education; (b) improve the 
effectiveness, efficiency and responsiveness of technical and vocational education and 
training; and (c) reinforce employment services and labor market information.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
General Education Support
 
1.
Provision of training for primary and secondary school staff, including 
teachers, principals, and counsellors and MOE staff, to improve the quality of 
teaching, encourage use of information technology and strengthen school management and 
such training shall include the following activities: (a) courses in special education 
and diagnostic assessment techniques; (b) the development and delivery of special 
education programs at Erdiston College; (c) courses in early childhood education; (d) 
courses in selective subjects such as remedial reading, information technology and 
environmental education; (e) a course in instructional leadership at Erdiston College 
which course will include multigrade teaching, school based training, school 
management, supervision and academic counselling; and (f) upgrading of Erdiston 
College including the acquisition of furniture and equipment.
2.
Upgrading of learning resources in schools and libraries through the following 
activities: (a) strengthening the AVA Department to facilitate access of all primary 
and secondary schools to the central collection of audio-visual aids resources through 
the acquisition and utilization of audio-visual equipment, books, reference and 
instructional materials, furniture and typesetting and
printing equipment and the provision of training related thereto; (b) establishing and 
equipping library resource centers in approximately fifteen (15) primary schools, and 
providing a basic package of audio visual equipment to all primary schools; (c) 
equipping all secondary schools with audio-visual equipment and interactive materials 
for foreign language teaching and providing training related thereto; and (d) 
reinforcing the capacity of the National Library to provide non-formal educational 
opportunities to the general public through the acquisition and utilization of 
Page  9
computer equipment, books, reference materials and furniture and the provision of 
overseas fellowships to its staff.
3.
The formulation, implementation and evaluation of the Borrower's policy reform 
measures in, and the public expenditure program for, the education sector including 
the provision of technical assistance and the carrying out of workshops.
Part B:
TVET Development
 
1.
Improvement of the quality of TVET instruction at the secondary and 
post-secondary levels through the design, implementation, and evaluation of a new 
multi-certification level competency-based teacher training program; development of a 
cadre of teacher trainers at the BCC; and improvement of the instructor appraisal and 
feedback system at the BCC and the SJPP by means of the acquisition and utilization of 
instructional aids and supplies, study tours, overseas fellowships, workshops and 
provision of consultancy services.
2.
Expansion of access to instructional materials and library resources through: 
(a) the establishment of two teacher resource centers at the BCC and at the SJPP; and 
(b) the upgrading of the BCC Library by means of, inter alia, the rehabilitation of 
the facility; installation and operation of computer systems; establishment of on-line 
access to other libraries; acquisition and utilization of equipment, books, 
instructional materials, furniture and training related thereto.
3.
Strengthening of TVET's curriculum and program development capabilities by: (a) 
developing curriculum and evaluation design and materials development expertise at the 
BCC and SJPP through the provision of fellowships, and the carrying out of curriculum 
and instructional design workshops; and (b) strengthening program review/evaluation 
procedures, including establishment and operation of program advisory committees at 
the SJPP and BCC.
4.
Revitalizing TVET programs through: (a) strengthening of the arts and crafts 
program within the Barbados Youth Training Service at the Ministry of Housing, Land, 
Community Development and Culture by means of the provision of technical assistance 
and the acquisition of equipment, furniture, material and supplies; (b) expansion of 
the number of course participants in the Training Administration Division of the 
Ministry of Civil Service; (d) establishment of a pilot industry service unit at BCC, 
to strengthen institutional capabilities to respond to short-term training needs of 
private sector enterprises; and (e) upgrading and equipping of the language center at 
BCC through the provision of specialized audio-visual equipment training for language 
tutors and professional staff, and technical assistance for program evaluation.
5.
Reinforcing of TVET institutional capabilities by means of, inter alia: (a) 
supporting the operations of the TVET Council and the ETF through the carrying out of 
seminars and workshops, acquisition and utilization of equipment and furniture and 
study attachments; (b) research and tracer studies to monitor and evaluate the impact 
of the TVET programs; (c) workshops for TVET managers and administrators; and (d) a 
specialized course, at BCC, in education management and administration for TVET 
managers and administrators.
Part C:
Labour Market Support
 
Strengthening of employment services and labor market information through the 
following activities:
1.
Design and implementation of a computerized information and placement system at 
the NEB; strengthening of educational and occupational counselling services at NEB; 
provision of training to NEB's staff; and acquisition and utilization of computer 
equipment for NEB.
2.
Strengthening of the capabilities of the MRSU to conduct labor market research 
and disseminate findings to policy makers and to the TVET Policy Coordinating Council 
through the provision of overseas fellowships to MRSU's staff, technical assistance 
and acquisition and utilization of computer equipment and materials.
Part D:
Project Administration
 
Strengthening of the capabilities of the EPIU by means of acquisition and 
utilization of computer equipment, provision of training and employment of short-term 
consultants.
* * *
Page  10
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due 
(expressed in dollars)*
 
      On each April 15 and October 15
            beginning October 15, 1998
            through   April 15, 2008             
390,000
 
