E-798 V. 2
August 2003
Third Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (ARP 111)
DRAFT SOCIAL APPRAISAL REPORT
March 2003
Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (MAFF)
FpAN



List of Acronyms
AETRDP           Australia East Timor Rural Development Program
Aldeia           Hamlet level unit of a village
ARP              Agricultural Rehabilitation Program
ASC              Agricultural Service Centre
CEP              Community Empowerment Program
Chefe do Suco    Village Leader
Chefe do Aldeia  Hamlet Leader
Conselho do Suco Village Council (established under CEP)
Conselho do
Katuas           Council of Traditional Elders
DAO              District Agricultural Office/Officer
DFO              District Forestry Officer
DFiO             District Fisheries Officer
DIO              District Irrigation Officer
DLO              District Livestock Officer
GIS              Geographic Information Systems
JAM              Joint Donor's Agriculture Mission
KUD              Farmer's Cooperative Unit (under the Indonesian system)
MAFF             Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry
M & E            Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR              Mid Term Review
NGO              Non Government Organization
NRM              Natural Resources Management
OALGD            Office of Administration, Local Governance and Development
OJT              Organization Joventude Timorensis (Timorese Youth Organization)
OMT              Organization Maters Timorensis (Timorese Women's Organization)
PAD              Project Appraisal Document
PPL              Extension Officer under the Indonesian System - based at the village, sub-district or district level
PRA              Participatory Rural Appraisal
Suco             Village Unit
Tara Bandu       System of traditional natural resource management involving bans and sanctions
WUAs             Water User Associations
VLWs             Village Livestock Workers



Table of Content
List of Acronyms
1. PURPOSE AND METHODOLOGY FOR THE SOCIAL APPRAISAL                           1
1.1 Research Methods                                                  2
2. FINDINGS OF THE SURVEYS                                                    3
2.1 Introdiction                                                      3
2.2 What are the most appropriate village-based institutions ARP III
should focus on?                                                   3
2.3 What are the best options for creating demand for services and effective
service delivery?                                                   8
2.4 Component 2, Rapid Rehabilitation of Infrastructure               12
2.5 Sub-component 3.1 Animal Health Services                          20
2.5.1 Vaccination program                                     20
2.5.2 Village Livestock Worker Program                        23
2.6 Sub-component 3.2 Information to farmers                          24
2.7 Sub-component 3.3 Agricultural Service Centres                    25
3. SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS                                                          26
4. RECOMMENDATIONS                                                            27
ANNEXURE
ANNEX A Terms of Reference for Social Appraisal
ANNEX B Interview Guides for Focus Group Discussions and WUA Interviews
ANNEX C Suco Institutions Summary
ANNEX D Results of the Community Interviews
ANNEX E Case Studies of Irrigation Schemes
ANNEX F Summary Table of Irrigation Scheme Case Studies



ARP III: SOCIAL APPRAISAL
1. PURPOSE AND METHODOLOGY FOR THE SOCIAL APPRAISAL
The social appraisal aims to provide guidance to the appraisal mission for the design of ARP IlIl due to take
place in May 2003. The Terms Of Reference for the social appraisal are attached as Annex A. The social
appraisal took place in February 2003 immediately following the Mid Term Review (MTR) of ARP II. During
the MTR, many recommendations for action were made based on a self-evaluation of the quality of impact
of activities on the farming community. These recommendations will be implemented between February -
December, and beyond this in selected components extended into Phase ll. Outcomes will need to be
reviewed at the end of Phase II to further incorporate lessons learnt into ARP ll. This social appraisal also
does not re-visit the issues covered in the social assessment study for ARP II which was completed in 2001.
It is assumed this information is still valid as little has changed in the less than two years since it's
completion. Rather, it has sought to gain first-hand insights from the farmers themselves concerning their
relationship to agricultural services which ARP IlIl will likely continue to provide.
The main theme of the social appraisal is to examine, in the context of existing ARP II components, how
best MAFF can identify and then meet the needs of the farming community, while at the same time
contributing to creating a culture of empowerment in which demands for services are articulated by farmers.
Key areas of focus (in order of priority) are as follows:
Component 1, Participatory Natural Resource Management Component.
What are the most appropriate village-based institutions which ARP IlIl should focus on in order to build
capacity for planning and implementing NRM activities (including the delivery of grant assistance) and
creating demand for services? What are the best options for effective service delivery, and which are likely
to be the most sustainable? How should ARP IlIl effectively target women within both the service delivery
sector as well as beneficiaries/service users?
Component 2, Rapid Rehabilitation of Infrastructure
Are the schemes assisted under this component (light-medium damaged) optimising their irrigation source,
which ones are not, what are the factors preventing full optimisation, and how can the WUAs be assisted to
overcome them. What are women's roles in WUAs and do these associations represent the interests of
women?
Sub-component 3.1, Animal Health Services
What are female and male farmer's expectations of the vaccination campaigns. Can they realistically be met
by MAFF, and if not, how should expectations be tempered to encourage continued vaccination coverage.
Are VLWs likely to be sustained by the community, and if not, what are the options for providing sustainable
and effective animal husbandry services?
Sub-component 3.2 Information to farmers
What type of information do female and male farmers require regarding all facets of agricultural production
through to marketing, and what is the most effective means of communicating this information.
Sub-component 3.3 - ASCs
What is the level of awareness of the female and male farmers about the services the ASCs provide/intend
to provide, and what services would they like them to provide?
ARP III Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003



1.1 Research methods
Preliminary field visits to NRM community groups and a WUA, coupled with the MTR discussions guided the
development of the methodology for the appraisal. In addition, the Monitoring and Evaluation section of
MAFF has recently undertaken a quantitative survey of the impact of limited interventions under ARP 11. Exit
interviews regarding vaccination services and pre-testing of Village Livestock Workers (VLWs) have also
been carried out. These findings were utilised where relevant. As ARP Ill is likely to include continuation of
many aspects of ARP 11 rather than embarking on new interventions, more qualitative data was required to
refine the implementation of existing components. The social appraisal looked for broad themes emerging
from semi-structured interviews with beneficiaries and service providers that could inform program design. It
is hoped that certain aspects and findings can be explored later by the various sectors of MAFF as they
refine implementation of their components, as well as through the final MAFF M & E survey to measure the
impact of ARP 11.
The methodology therefore included a number of qualitative tools:
a). Focus group discussions with a sample of groups from four existing Component 1 Natural Resource
Management (NRM) pilot villages, and eleven non-pilot sucos where VLWs have already been selected in
their sub-districts. All of the NRM pilot districts were represented with the exception of Dili. A mixture of
upland, coastal and lowland suco from the north and south were included, however due to the onset of
heavy rains, pilot suco in Oecussi and Liquisa could not be visited. The highland areas were largely
inaccessible at the time of the interviews due to poor road conditions. Most of the interview took in excess of
5 hours. The total number of respondents who participated in the group discussions were 269 men and 125
women. Groups were made up of Implementation Teams, Small Group members and farmers in the pilot
suco, and Chefe do Suco, Chefe do Aldeia, members of the Consleho do Katuas, OMT, OJT, Conselho do
Suco and male and female farmers in the non-pilot suco.
b). Detailed case studies of four light to medium damaged irrigation schemes rehabilitated under ARP I and
11 (Bobonaro and Viqueque) were developed with key informants and WUA members, as well as less
detailed discussions with WUAs from a further three schemes in Oecussi.
c). Interviews with key service providers (principally MAFF and DAO staff, NGOs at District and National
level, Office of Administration for Local Government and Development) about services required and optimal
delivery methods.
d). Review of agricultural aspects of previous surveys, such as the Participatory Poverty Survey, the Suco
and Household surveys, the NGO (community development) survey, as well as lessons learnt from other
relevant projects such as the Australia-East Timor Rural Development Program (AETRDP) Phase 1,
implementation experience from CEP and various NGO programs where relevant to the issues under
review. Other relevant surveys planned for the near future were also examined, such as the research into
optimal local government structures.
The interview guides are attached as Annex B. The Social Specialist would like to thank MAFF and DAO
staff for assisting with the arrangements for and participating in the community interviews. In addition, the
enthusiasm of male and female farmers in coming together to spend long hours discussing their views and
aspirations for agricultural development and MAFF programs was greatly appreciated, and provided
valuable input to the process of refining ARP Ill interventions.
ARP Ill Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                    2



2. FINDINGS OF THE SURVEYS
2.1 Introduction
Although every effort was made to encourage free and frank discussion in the focus groups, the views of the
dominant few were often the first and last responses provided. The interviewers routinely attempted to
encourage the views of the less vocal participants, including women, by reiterating that we were not
necessarily interested in consensus, but wanted to hear and record a variety of opinions. This approach
yielded some success, and multiple answers to questions were recorded where differences of view were
noted. A great deal of time was required to ensure a good understanding of the questions, and to revisit
previous information when contradictions arose. Nevertheless, the interviews occasionally yielded
contradictory information (such as reporting 100% vaccination coverage while listing reasons why some
community members chose not to vaccinate etc). Exit interviews with the interviewers were held to discuss
these discrepancies and annotate contradictory responses where appropriate. Although the sample size
was relatively small, the consistency of responses, while also accommodating a wide variety of views, was
sufficient to indicate the opinions of the community were faithfully reflected on a broad range of topics.
2.2 What are the most appropriate village-based institutions which ARP III should focus
on?
The results of the interviews support the current ARP li approach to flexibility - assessing requirements for
groupings on a suco by suco basis, incorporating strong, traditional leadership support only where it is found
to exist, while assisting new community groups to increase self-reliance through increased decision making
and funds management.
Implementation Teams in Pilot suco
ARP II established purpose-specific Implementation Teams and Small Groups to plan for and manage the
use of funds for NRM activities. This approach appears to have been well received by the community and
they generally trust these groups to manage the funding resources of their NRM activities. However, as can
be seen from the results of the Suco Institutions Summary (see Annex C), the pilot sucos did not nominate
the Implementation Team as an important institution in their suco - even though the ARP II activities
managed by them are likely to represent the bulk of funded activities taking place in the suco at present.
The related Small Groups were mentioned twice (called 'farmer's groups' by the community) in relation to
their ARP role. According to the results of the Community Interviews (Annex D) however, the pilot
communities interviewed were largely content to see existing money and any hypothetical new funds go
straight to the Implementation Teams, even though they do not yet represent an established, formal group
within the Suco Structure.
All pilot suco were aware of the need for transparency as a way of minimising suspicion over the use of the
funds. Only two however admitted to having notice boards which they used. Meetings were also mentioned
as a more effective way of communicating expenditure information, but the extent to which this actually
happens is not known. The issue of ensuring that information is displayed on notice boards prior to the
release of any subsequent funding was addressed in the MTR. The management capacity of these groups
also needs to be addressed, and this will be the focus of the remainder of ARP II. Their knowledge of the
criteria for selecting activities was poor, which undermines the whole purpose of the NRM focus i.e. to
develop and implement activities which will safeguard the suco's natural resources. This issue was also
addressed in the MTR and will be addressed in the revised operations manual.
In summary, the Implementation Teams and Small Groups have a long way to go before they could be
considered fully functioning groups who could sustain NRM activities. ARP Ill should encourage the
continued identification and implementation of NRM activities without the need for continued external
ARP Ill Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                    3



funding assistance. This would involve the development of detailed plans for utilising the economic benefits
of existing activities (sale of tree products and fish etc) to develop and continue other activities or at least
ensure the whole suco community eventually benefits from initial seed funds provided by ARP.
Conselho do suco
The grant agreement requires that the treasurer of the Conselho do Suco must receive or at least witness
the delivery of NRM activity grant funds. This has proven extremely unpopular at all levels from the
community to the District Administration. It appears the mechanism as a safeguard for transparency was not
well understood, and according to the community, would not necessarily provide the safeguard required.
The DAOs and project advisers, in an attempt to streamline the bureaucratic requirements of funds transfers
opted to provide NRM funds straight to the Treasurers of the Implementation Teams, without acknowledging
they were required under the terms of the agreement to involve the Conselho do Sucos. This has been
raised in the MTR and the requirement that all future funds transfers under ARP 11 be made through the
Conselho do Suco has been reconfirmed. The implications for ARP Ill are discussed below.
The reasons for the unpopularity of the Conselho do Sucos is not entirely clear. Whilst the value of CEP is
clearly acknowledged (it was the most recognised organization external to the sucos), only two of the 13
suco interviewed nominated the related Conselho do Suco as a possible organization to mobilise in the case
of discussing a hypothetical new agricultural activity, (one suco said it did not have a Conselho do Suco,
another said theirs 'wasn't active'). All groups were prompted about why they would not involve the
Conselho do Suco, and the overwhelming reason was that they were 'just involved in CEP'. A couple of the
suco were further prompted as to whether they could in fact be mobilised for a non-CEP purpose, and they
said they were not sure because they had never tried. Only four suco mentioned that the Conselho do suco
were not trusted and a fifth said the problem was at the sub-district level only. What is clear is that a broader
role for the conselho do suco beyond that of planning for and administering CEP activities appears not to
have been realised. Communities firmly associate them with CEP only. Had they not been specifically
prompted to consider the Conselho do suco, they would not have been mentioned at all in the majority or
cases as a suco institution which could be considered in managing a hypothetical new agricultural activity.
Whilst to extend their role beyond CEP to one of broader community development would not be impossible,
it would likely require an extensive education campaign which spelt out this broader non-CEP role.
Following that, re-elections to ensure candidates understood the broader role expected of them (and that
the community were choosing the most appropriate candidates for this extended role) would need to take
place. In their present incarnation, they do not represent a suitable vehicle for implementing ARP Ill
activities.
Chefe do Suco and Chefe Aldeia
The main players most frequently identified as associated with decision making relating to development
activities and community mobilisation are the Chefe do Suco and the Chefe do Aldeia. Only in one of the
Oecussi groups were the Chefe Aldeias considered more important than the Chefe do Suco, and this was
because the role of the Chefe do Suco was unclear according to the community (possibly a result of the
suco wanting to separate into two administrative units). This finding is also supported by the 'Government
Within Reach' report (NDI, January 2003) which states that "There seems to be mostly high regard for those
occupying these positions, due to their closeness with people during the struggle...". "Reinforcing the
representative nature of the position, East Timorese see [them] as the key link between the government and
the world at large." Seven out of the nine non-pilot suco preferred money to be kept/administered by the
Chefe do Suco as the most trusted mechanism. (The four pilot suco by contrast had previous experience
with the Implementation Teams and considered them a satisfactory mechanism). It is clear that the support
of these key players, though not necessarily direct control, will be essential to the success of the NRM
activities. How far this burden should fall to them however needs to be assessed in light of their existing
administrative roles and the desirability of establishing broad-based community groups responsible for their
own democratic decision-making.
ARP III Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                    4



Conselho do Katuas / Traditional leaders
The council of elders was the only other group mentioned with any frequency (5) as a possible
group to involve in a hypothetical agriculture activity. Traditional Leaders were mentioned 6 times
as important to decision making (likely to be the same people on the Conselho do Katuas), but
were not mentioned as being an important point of contact as individuals. Normally very active in
making decisions surrounding land tenure, traditional law and natural resource management
ceremonies (tara bandu) etc, they tend not to concern themselves with 'development' or modern
governance issues, although their role in providing a link between the community and government
was mentioned. However as with the Chefe do Suco and Aldeias, they should be involved in
implementation groups in an advisory role to ensure their support for activities. The Tara Bandu
activities carried out by pilot suco under ARP 11 should be evaluated to determine the success of
the revival of such resource management mechanisms, and MAFF should consider ways of
incorporating such mechanisms into its own programs as a form of community contribution to
forestry/watershed management activities.
Other suco level groups
The OMT and OJT were the other two groups most consistently mentioned in discussions, but on closer
questioning, the majority of these exist only in name. Membership is often vague - including all married
women in the former and all unmarried youth (but not necessarily) in the latter. All communities had difficulty
describing the role of these groups, and activities are almost non-existent unless an external donor provides
direct funds. Once this is spent / finished, the groups are then described as being no longer 'active'. That
said, there is a distinct pride associated with being able to name these groups and they are still considered
important to decision making/suco development, even when completely inactive. One of the suco in the
survey nominated them as an effective means of channelling money because "women are cleverer at
managing money". ARP 11 has been engaging the OMT in particular as a vehicle for women's involvement,
and this appears to be acceptable. However with such loosely defined membership, the extent to which
OMT would continue to function independently to implement NRM activities is questionable, and they may
not provide a distinct advantage over any other grouping of women. A focus on OMT may in fact serve to
prevent younger, unmarried women for gaining access to activities.
'Farmer groups' are often mentioned by communities, but on closer inspection, do not actually have much
of a structure or function. Some were established under Indonesian times, with anecdotal evidence of a
variety of extension interventions being implemented through them, but these groups reportedly ceased to
function once the extension activity (usually a demonstration plot) was concluded. Farmer groups who are
identified now are largely along clan lines, involving single aldeia only, and their 'activities' appear to be
limited to intra-household communal land preparation or fence construction. As such, they do not represent
any distinct advantages over forming 'new' groups, as these are likely to be along aldeia lines as well and
involve the same people. Only one suco mentioned they had a group which paid some sort of membership
(the money was then used to buy livestock), while another had a fishing group because they had been given
a boat by the NGO Timor Aid and needed to form a group to receive and manage it.
A robust tradition of collective action in formally established, non-clan based groups appears to be absent
from Timorese farming communities and is perhaps a reflection of low input farming and the relatively recent
entry of most communities into the money economy. Where groups did or do exist, they tend to be
dependent on external support to provide them with a reason to identify as a group. This is supported by the
fact that the majority of the non-pilot suco thought that developing a new group to discuss and implement a
hypothetical new agricultural development and manage subsequent funding would be most appropriate, and
this is consistent with the ARP 11 approach.
ARP III Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                   5



The need for women's groups
All suco interviewed except one mentioned they had a separate women's group already. This was generally
seen as a positive thing by both men and women. Nine groups specifically said they should have separate
women's groups, but many qualified the need to get assistance from men for things like land clearing and
preparation (presumably when considering agricultural production activities). The issue of whether there
should be a separate group for women in NRM-type activities was not well understood as people have
limited exposure to participatory planning methodologies and do not yet know the potential of a well
facilitated process of problem identification, developing solutions and designing appropriate activity
interventions. Rather, they are more likely to think about traditionally 'women's' activities like vegetable
growing and tais making. Through a proper planning process for NRM, activities selected may be the same
between men's and women's groups. What is important is that the process of planning and management
offers invaluable experience to the groups who are involved first-hand. In mixed groups, women tend to
observe proceedings rather than actively participate. The establishment of equal quotas of men's, women's
and mixed groups should be a priority for ARP Ill to ensure women are given the chance to participate fully
in these activities. This is likely to be well supported by the community and has been demonstrated in ARP 11
and AETRDP Phase I as an effective way to increase women's direct participation.
Pending detailed study and recommendations for appropriate suco level govemance
The Office of Administration and Local Government and Development (OALGD) is undertaking a three
month study of local governance issues and will make recommendations regarding an appropriate structure
and institutions from suco to District level. Funded by Ireland Aid, the study will commence in April 2003,
and recommendations are expected by July 2003. A Technical Committee, consisting of Directors from six
Ministries (including MAFF) and a representative District Administrator will review the recommendations
before passing them on to the Political Committee (comprising the Ministers of the same six Ministries).
They will draft an Autonomy Law which it is hoped will be passed by the end of 2003.
The Terms of Reference for the study include the delineation of 'the levels of administrative hierarchy down
to the community that will facilitate cost effective and efficient service delivery and enhance community
initiative and participation" as well as "options for effective decentralisation that clearly define the role of
[community] and civil society organizations and entities, empowers communities and strengthens
transparency and grass roots democracy". The fate of the Conselho do Sucos as the only legally recognised
body at the suco level will be examined and decided as part of this study. While it is possible that they will
continue to exist as an appropriate concept for building democratic institutions, it is likely that this would only
happen following socialisation of a new non-CEP focused role, fresh elections and possibly a name change.
It is hoped that recommendations for the new structure will take into account the primary role of agriculture
in suco life and the requirements for managing changes to production mechanisms whilst enhancing the
community's traditional role in the management of natural resources.
Implications for ARP 11
Whatever the outcome of the Autonomy Law, the suco structure that eventuates will need to be
acknowledged and examined by MAFF to determine whether ARP Ill NRM activities should be planned and
implemented by the new suco institutions. If they are thought to be appropriate, it will be important that
parallel structures are not established in competition, and that MAFF assists in overall capacity building of
the newly emerging suco structures. MAFF, in it's important role on the Technical and Political Committees
(during the drafting of the Autonomy Law) should consider the need for suco level representation to assist in
implementation of their broader programs, and their capacity building and support should be a priority under
ARP 111.
However if the new suco structures are not sufficiently well defined to be utilised as a vehicle for
implementing ARP Ill NRM activities, the existing method of establishing new groups trialed under ARP 11
appears to be appropriate. The identification of new groups and their members should be done in close
ARP III Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                    6



collaboration with the Chefe do Suco, Aldeia and Traditional Leaders (where the suco community respects
their authority in whatever form they take under the autonomy law). This should be done in a flexible manner
across suco, taking into account the existence and success of farmer or other community groupings that
may form the basis for new NRM groups. What will be important is that all interested community members
are provided with quality information about the scope of the ARP NRM activities, and are able to self-
nominate if they are interested in participating. Suco government and traditional leaders should be
encouraged to motivate the poorest to become active members to minimise elite capture, rather than
nominate the most progressive/active farmers only (as may have been the case in ARP 11). The number of
participating groups identified would depend on the capacity of facilitators to support a number of small
groups in any one suco and provide effective training to a potentially large number of participants. The
geographic make-up of the suco will help to determine the number of groups, where some may lend
themselves to several aldeia being represented by one group. A minimum of three groups per suco should
be considered to ensure the presence of at least one women-only and one mixed group to ensure a minimal
50% representation of women.
The difficulty of sustaining purpose-specific groups will be common to any institution in which the NRM
activity is located, i.e. they may only be sustained as long as the activity is funded. As discussed above,
ARP Ill should look at mechanisms for generating and collecting revenue from existing seed fund activities
(tree crops and fisheries) as a way of promoting continued identification and implementation of NRM
activities. Plans for the maximum distribution of any profits/benefits arising from funded activities to the
entire suco population should be included as a pre-requisite for receiving funding to ensure benefits are
maximised and non-group members are included. Working through appropriate groups specified in the new
suco structure will maximise the likelihood of sustainability, as these groups will have other roles beyond
NRM activities and will continue to be accountable to the community.
The funding mechanisms developed under ARP 11, whilst not conforming to the Grant Agreement, appear to
be appropriate to the community's needs for transparency. The Autonomy Law will likely address this issue
in developing appropriate government structures and mechanisms, and ARP Ill should consider the
resulting mechanisms in developing a new grant agreement. The mechanisms developed by CEP and
adopted by ARP 11, which include the public display of financial transactions should be re-evaluated in light
of the high level of illiteracy. In addition, the placement of noticeboards out in the weather means that often
the only financial records belonging to the group are rendered illegible by exposure to the weather or lost. In
the interests of promoting self reliance, communities should be encouraged to come up with their own plans
for ensuring transparency, following the broad principles developed under ARP 11 and endorsed by group
members, as a prerequisite to receiving funding. What is clear from the interviews is that communities
embrace the idea of the right to information, while the holders of money are keen to avoid suspicion of
misappropriation. Whilst some form of public display is likely to remain appropriate, it will only serve it's
intended function if communities are assisted in developing more user-friendly formats for disposable public
display, and this should be addressed in the remainder of ARP 11 and ARP 111. What is preferable however is
that regular community meetings are held at which this information is presented verbally for discussion and
comment to all interested parties. How this is done and who should be involved should either follow the
requirements of the new Autonomy Law (if appropriate) or be up to individual communities to nominate
trusted individuals to perform this very important function.
ARP III Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                    7



2.3 What are the best options for creating demand for services and effective service
delivery which are likely to be the most sustainable?
Types of services required by farmers
Farmers interviewed had difficulty with the concept of 'services' or 'information' provided in the area of
agriculture. Nine of the 13 suco identified vaccination as a service, while the others did not - even though
they had in fact received this service. Four could not recall any other service/information they had received.
Three from Oecussi had received tree seedlings from the DFO and seven mentioned having received
'penyuluhan' (advice/lectures) on farming topics, but were vague about what these were and may have
been reporting potential rather than actual services. Instructions on banning the destruction and burning of
forests was mentioned by two Oecussi groups.
The most well known DAO staff were the Livestock and Forestry officers (mentioned ten times) while
agriculture (the DAO) and Fisheries were less well known (mentioned 6 and 5 times respectively). Food
Crops and Irrigation were the least well known (being mentioned 4 times each). Two suco knew the names
of some of the staff but could not specify which sectors they were from. While it is reasonable that Irrigation
staff are only known in areas where there is irrigation (a minority of suco), the limited exposure of food crops
staff is of concern. Five groups expressed a desire to be visited more frequently by all sectors - particularly
those sector staff who had not yet visited at all. There is a need for all DAO staff to be more visible to the
community to ensure that MAFF services are understood and utilised. It is acknowledged that human
resources are extremely limited at the district level, however joint visits at peak times such as during
vaccination campaigns should be utilised to make greater use of farmer gatherings for extension/information
dissemination opportunities.
There was an overwhelming feeling that farmers received a lot more information in Indonesian times
compared to now, but this was not expressed in terms of disappointment - more as a fact of life post
independence: "East Timor is still a new country, so there aren't yet enough PPLs to create activities with
farmers. Not enough manpower and facilities." "There was more in Indonesian times because there were
more staff at the sub-district level, so more face-to-face contact. We know there are limitations". The mostly
keenly felt loss since the Indonesian Administration was the services of the extension officers (PPLs). Ten of
the thirteen suco said their PPL was very useful, and the predominant reasons seemed to be the
introduction of new varieties to the suco (rambutan, snake fruit, kapok, cashew, jackfruit, mango and dry
land rice were mentioned as examples) and the establishment of demonstration plots to extend the
technique of growing these varieties. Also, some PPLs introduced new technologies (optimal spacing for
planting corn, vegetables and rice, planting in rows, pest management and how to make fertiliser). Only
three reported that their PPL was not useful, because they either did nothing or did not make demonstration
plots, but one of these said they attended the demonstrations of neighbouring PPL instead which was
considered beneficial.
When asking what services/information farmers felt they needed, this was explained not in terms of 'physical
inputs or handouts' but as assistance that would improve farming output. All groups mentioned
lectures/advice (penyuluhan) as a requirement - particularly on technical aspects of farming, including
pesticide use/pest reduction, practical application of new techniques, farm and natural resource
management, growing trees such as teak, animal husbandry and vaccination. As one farmer put it "so far all
we have received are directives about what not to do [regarding forest management] but how do we actually
look after our forests"? There is a feeling that 'modern' farming practices are the answer to production
problems, as well as inputs such as improved seed, fertiliser and pesticides: 'We are still farming as our
ancestors did. This is why we cannot increase production."
Face-to-face training in the suco was by far the most popular preference for delivery of training/information
(ten Suco) with a strong emphasis on practical demonstration. Two mentioned this was necessary because
ARP III Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                      8



their community was largely illiterate. Only four mentioned other forms of information dissemination (posters,
books, leaflets, handouts, radio) and two specifically stated that radio was of limited use as a medium for
providing quality information. This is in contrast to the Asia Foundation's survey of preferred methods for
receiving communication (2001) which found radio to be the most effective method of delivering political
messages. It must be remembered though that farmers are seeking practical information that they can
apply to real effect rather than simply provision of general information. Issues of information delivery are
further addressed in the section on Information Services below.
The use of key farmers
The results of the survey show that people do not generally differentiate between or acknowledge people
within their community with notably superior farming skills. There is a perception that all farmers have a
similar level of farming or animal husbandry skills. While some acknowledge the presence of people in the
suco who attended the SPP (secondary agricultural school) in Indonesian times (2 sucos), they are not
sought out for advice, and in turn, do not provide it in any formal sense to their communities. Whilst certain
skills could be taught to selected farmers in the hope that they will extend this within their communities, it is
anticipated that payment of some kind would be required - depending on the expectation for achieving total
coverage of the suco community. Training community vaccinators for example, especially for chickens, is
likely to be of benefit, and the use of individual farmers to extend key production improvement methods
could be further examined if individual farmers were interested in taking on this unpaid role. However this
'trickle down' system of training is usually only effective for limited technical skills transfer, and what is
important is that the understanding of the message/technique is not diluted to the point where is not
effectively extended in the interests of achieving quantity rather than quality of adoption.
As part of the new structure under the Autonomy Law, MAFF could explore the nomination of aldeia-based
individuals to be tasked with responsibility for key, routine activities. The organization of a suco's annual
rounding-up of free ranging animals for vaccination could fall to specifically designated individuals from each
aldeia - ie those with a large livestock holding for example - who could assist the Chefe do Aldeia in
creating demand for services by achieving 100% coverage.
The use of trained facilitators
In the absence of an effective and broad-based extension services, trained facilitators represent one of the
best ways to assist in creating farmer demand for services as well as bridging the communication gap
between the community and the DAO technical staff. Following a visit in December 2002, the MTR team
called for a fresh recruitment process which would improve the quality of facilitators. This was in recognition
that the first round of facilitators were not necessarily selected in the most appropriate manner and suffered
from a lack of quality training. Once finalised, the background of the new recruits should be documented to
determine whether the recruitment process was successful in attracting candidates appropriately skilled and
experienced in participatory community development, including University graduates. The performance of
the next round of facilitators will need to be closely monitored and discussed at the conclusion of ARP II to
determine whether they represent the best combination of skills for the facilitator roles. More importantly, the
new recruits will need to be appropriately trained and supported to undertake their roles. The current NRM
adviser has developed an orientation and management training, and a Community Development Trainer is
being recruited to develop an appropriate participatory planning methodology. The training material from the
AETRDP Community Resource Management Planning model has been provided to MAFF as an example of
an appropriate and tested methodology for use in East Timor. This could be modified and adopted for ARP
11 and ll.
Source/institutional location of facilitators
A desirable outcome from implementation of ARP IlIl would be to have the DAOs expand their staffing levels
to include a small number of facilitators who would be permanently employed to create a
community/technical staff interface. They could expand the number of suco undertaking NRM activities
ARP IIl Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                     9



supported by.MAFF beyond ARP l1l, as well as assist in creating demand for other services provided
through the district offices. As programs are developed and get underway the balance of Dili based to
District based staff may need to be reassessed to gain maximum exposure to farmers. However it is
acknowledged that funding for extra positions may not be available in the foreseeable future.
An alternative then is to utilise the resources available at the sub-district level to increase MAFF'S capacity
for outreach. The OALGD is in the process of recruiting 60 Community Development Officers to be based at
the sub-district level. Their role is to stimulate development at the suco level, and they will be provided with
training to this end. However, as they have no budget to actually plan and implement activities, they will be
limited to coordinating the activities of other agencies and may have only limited tasks to perform. As the
vast majority will be based in rural areas, their role of facilitating agricultural planning could be maximised by
MAFF through supplementary training in NRM participatory planning and management of activities to utilise
Component 1 funds under ARP ll. Discussions should be held with the OALGD in the ARP IlIl appraisal to
determine the likely parameters and mechanisms of this cooperation. A pilot training program to equip the
Community Development Officers with the required skills could then become part of ARP l1l. The sub-district
officers and the District Development Offices should also be part of this process in recognition of the
important role of agriculture to the East Timorese economy. MAFF and the OALGD should conduct joint
discussions to determine how these resources could be best used to facilitate closer working relations and
address MAFF's shortfall in extension and participatory planning capacity while stimulating suco level
development.
Participatory planning skills within MAFF
ARP II trained the Fisheries, Forestry and DAOs from the pilot district offices in PRA methodologies,
however they have not applied these in other non-pilot suco and only participated in PRA data collection in
the pilot suco in a limited way. DAOs were also trained to become trainers in PRA methodologies, but after
nearly twelve months, they have not provided this sort of training to other staff and do not intend to train the
next batch of facilitators. Whilst it is important that these staff understand the planning principles and
methodologies, they do not generally have the time to implement extended participatory planning processes
with the community and see their role as providers of technical support to this process. In addition, existing
MAFF programs tend to be supply driven rather than demand based. Until resources are specifically
earmarked for demand based activities, bottom-up participatory planning outside of Component 1 may not
result in any funding. Until staff numbers increase significantly to include the specific role of facilitating
demand for services, it will be difficult to locate this function within the existing compliment of District staff,
however hiring facilitators/extension staff at the DAO level (discussed above) may be an option.
The necessity for female facilitators
The issue of female facilitators was only raised in the focus group interwiews with pilot suco as it was felt
they best knew what was required of the role. In retrospect, this question should have been asked of all the
groups to gain a broader view. Only one of the four pilot suco interviewed said it was better to have a female
facilitator so she could "work with the women's group". The other three were of the opinion that it did not
really matter whether they were a man or a woman; the most important attribute was skills/knowledge in
farming. Two though it important that the facilitator should live in (but not necessarily come from) the suco.
The recruitment process underway for replacement facilitators in the 14 pilot suco resulted in female
facilitators being hired in every pilot district. Their performance (along with that of their male counterparts)
should be closely monitored to ensure both the community and the DAO staff are satisfied with their
capacity to facilitate participatory NRM planning and implementation. Attention should be given to
addressing any difficulties the women in particular may be facing doing field work in more isolated locations,
and these should be addressed as they arise to ensure women are adequately supported in this role. The
recent decision to provide one motorcycle per district for the facilitators will need to be especially well
coordinated. It is unlikely the female facilitators will be able to ride them (the trail bikes necessary to
ARP IIl Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                     10



negotiate off-road conditions are generally too large for Timorese women to control) and they may be co-
opted for the exclusive use of the male facilitators unless strict guidelines developed. It is therefore desirable
that the facilitators work as a team, facilitating both male, female and mixed groups to ensure women's
activities are not marginalised and the facilitators provide mutual support to all groups.
Partnerships/contracts with NGOs
Since the emergency phase, the number of NGOs operating in East Timor has fallen from over 200 to a few
dozen who are still active, and the number involved in agriculture are minimal'. In general their field staff
lack experience and capacity, many having been only recently formed, and some have very limited/no field
activities underway. More importantly, many have a somewhat hostile attitude towards the government
sector, demanding inclusion but often lacking proven expertise themselves. The government in turn (MAFF)
has an equally suspicious view of NGOs, believing that the majority were formed with a view to making a
quick profit rather than providing quality services of real benefit. However many local NGOs are now being
supported by international NGOs such as Oxfam and Catholic Relief Services, and organizations such as
CARITAS are actively trying to establish stable, local NGOs through an intensive process of capacity
building. The extent to which effective NGOs are represented at the District level should be assessed under
ARP Ill and contracts for facilitation services considered on a per-district basis (as an alternative to direct
hiring of facilitators), with DAO staff providing technical inputs as required. The form of the NGO contracts
would need to be carefully negotiated to ensure that MAFF was satisfied with the intended outcome, and
that the NGOs were able to provide these services to an agreed level of quality. NGOs would be
encouraged to seek funding from other sources to maintain their relationship with the NRM suco and
continue providing support to them beyond ARP 111.
Expanding demand for NRM services
To date, creating demand for appropriate NRM activities has largely been the role of the Component 1
facilitators and the DFOs under their reforestation programs. The former have been somewhat limited to
fisheries and forestry activities due to the heavy reliance to date on selecting from the list of 'positive'
activities in the operations manual. It is noted that these have not been updated from the list in the PAD, and
some of the broader activities within them, such as 'watershed management' may be difficult for
communities to conceptualise into related, manageable activities. Under the remainder of ARP 11 and 111,
facilitator training (contracted facilitators, Community Development Officers, NGO facilitators, MAFF
contracted facilitators) needs to be improved to develop an effective, participatory planning methodology
that takes into account a broader range of resource management issues, including livestock management,
improved cropping practices and integrated/natural pest management etc. Activities should be based firmly
on priority problems farming communities are experiencing and MAFF should be encouraged to respond to
these problems, once articulated, rather than developing supply-driven programs. The AETRDP program
(Phase 11) is developing activity 'packages' which respond to farmer need based on a process of
participatory problem identification. The packages will include activities and information for all aspects of
implementation requirements from production through the processing and/or marketing if appropriate, and
these should be utilised in ARP Ill districts where relevant.
Implications forARP Ill
ARP Ill should explore the possibility of encouraging the contracting of ARP 11 facilitators as permanent DAO
staff to assist technical staff with participatory identification of a broad range of NRM activities related to
sustainable agricultural production improvements. This process could be used to inform development of
their program services as well as assisting the community to access available services.
I Personal correspondence with staff from the NGO forum who are trying to encourage active NGOs to maintain
registration
ARP Ill Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                       11



However in the absence of likely funding for such positions, MAFF should consider negotiating with the
OALGD to access the Community Development Workers in particular to provide facilitation / extension
services required in the critical area of agriculture. Alternative mechanisms such as contracting NGOs to
provide facilitation services under Component 1 should also be explored, however it is acknowledged that
the budgetary requirements for this will likely be beyond MAFFs capacity following completion of ARP 111.
What is important in this model is that NGOs may be able to access funding from other sources to continue
working in ARP Ill suco, and eventually expand their program to other suco in partnership with MAFF.
2.4 Component 2, Rapid Rehabilitation of Infrastructure
Are the schemes assisted under this component (community, light-medium damaged)
optimising their irrigation source, which ones are not, what are the factors preventing
full optimisation, and how can the WUAs be assisted to overcome them?
Introduction
In-depth interviews were carried out with the board and members of the WUAs in Bilimau, Halicou,
(Bobonaro District) and Baedubu and Uaibati (Viqueque District). Less rigorous discussions were held in
Naktuka, Tono and Oemathitu in Oecussi due to time constraints. The comments below refer only to the
situation in those schemes and not to rice growing in their respective Districts in general.
Two community schemes were also visited for comparison - Futudu 11 in Viqueque and Bolubo in Bobonaro.
In the former scheme, no rice had been planted since the ARP rehabilitation works were completed as the
main dam structure constructed by the Indonesian Government had subsequently collapsed. Recent efforts
to construct a makeshift structure using wire baskets full of rocks (beronjong) had been knocked down by
the force of the rver, and the community were not confident about the likelihood of a lesser structure lasting
- although they were prepared to try to reconstruct it through their own efforts. According to MAFF, the cost
of rebuilding the dam structure was prohibitively high and not a priority at this point in time (only around
3OHa are irrigated under this scheme).
In Bolubo, the intake has already been damaged, and according to the ex suco leader, there was not
enough water to irrigate the paddy. He did not wish to arrange a community interview to verify this. When
the team checked the site they felt the repairs necessary were within the means of the community, and that
there was in fact sufficient water. The suco was however in the middle of a leadership dispute (the current
suco leader was also the school teacher and the Dili administration had asked him to step down). This may
have affected the community's ability to organise sufficiently to undertake the repair work and the District
Irrigation Officer (DIO) is monitoring the situation. These two schemes are not included in the discussions
below. Case studies prepared after the interviews (including Futudu) are attached as Annex E.
Findings
The main findings of the interviews are summarised in the table in Annex F. Each scheme visited has a set
of conditions, traditions and socio-political relations peculiar to the way it functions. The reasons given for
sub-optimal utilisation were complex and varied, and despite efforts to be systematic, were often
contradictory and confusing - particularly as farmers were largely being asked to estimate their future plans
for planting in an uncertain environment. In addition, the more motivated farmers and active members within
the WUA may have been over-represented in the discussions, while the poorer, less motivated farmers
(who's behaviour the WUAs felt they had to influence) may have been under-represented. For these
ARP III Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                      12



reasons, the following observations based on the interviews are by no means conclusive and will need to be
followed up with accurate monitoring of actual behaviour in the 2002/3 wet and 2003 dry seasons2.
An examination of pre-1999 arrangements for rice growing was revealing both for the extent to which rice
growing was subsidised and supported, and the uneven adoption of inputs such as fertiliser and pesticides.
Baedubu, one of the largest and most complex schemes, was kept operational by the Indonesian
government free of charge (de-silting the primary canal every year) while Bilimau had assistance from an
NGO and the local sub-district head to excavate the intake each year. Neither of the two schemes in
Viqueque or Maliana used fertiliser, and actively rejected it, believing their soil was sufficiently fertile
(perhaps because the majority is cropped only once a year). By contrast, the three Oecussi schemes were
largely responsible for the maintenance of their own schemes and were using fertiliser and pesticide on a
regular basis, with second cropping more widespread. Marketing patterns varied as well. In Viqueque, all
surplus produced was sold to the Farmer's Cooperative (KUD), in Oecussi, it was sold in the market at
Kefamenanu (West Timor), and in Bobonaro, it appeared to be mostly used for household consumption,
with some surplus sold to family members in Maliana.
The respective levels of dependency appear to be reflected in the post-conflict production patterns, where
the three Oecussi schemes seem to have recovered quickest to pre-1999 production levels (at least in
terms of number of hectares planted), with planting experiencing minimal disruption. Those with major
government and NGO support on the other hand came to an almost complete standstill and were much
slower to overcome production problems (whether this is coincidentally an effect of the extent of the level of
damage they suffered is not known).
The advent of the drought leading up to the 2002/2003 wet season has further complicated the emerging
pattern of useage, with farmers only now starting to prepare their land in time for a March planting. This may
mean the 2003 dry season planting will have to be delayed until August for those that plant in March, and
the implications of the late wet season planting will need to be closely monitored before conclusions are
drawn regarding optimal usage patterns.
Of major concern are the estimates used in the feasibility study relating to the number of hectares that can
potentially be irrigated and cultivated - both in the wet and dry seasons - compared with those of the
farmers. Most WUA board members did not have accurate figures and attempted to guess the total potential
paddy in their schemes. In Tono and Oemathitu, they declined to even try to guess. In some cases, the
community estimated higher than the feasibility study, and in others, lower. Most put the dry season
irrigation potential much lower than the feasibility study. This may be because the reconstruction works were
largely completed afterthe 2002 dry season and have therefore not been tested. Most groups did not
believe that the rehabilitation works would increase the potential number of dry season hectares as this was
still dependent on seasonal rainfall.
2002 dry season
Although Halicou, Bilimau and Uaibati were completed in June 2002, they were not planted in the 2002 dry
season for the following main reasons:
Halicou: Planted 5 ha in corn. Secondary canals still had to be dug to connect to the new intake, and there
was a small landslide near the primary canal which filled it with dirt. Works were completed too late for a dry
2 Wet season planting normally occurs around December/January and dry season planting in May/June. In Baedubu
and Uaibati, Viqueque, their main rainfall or 'wet' season is in ApriVMay/June when most of the rice is planted, however
in the interests of consistency, it is still referred to as their dry season throughout this report.
ARP Ill Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                      13



season planting taking into account the time needed to clean the canals manually and the limited labour
available3.
Bilimau: The community were unhappy that the rehabilitation works were not more extensive and refused to
plant (according to the local NGO ETADEP). Only 4 hectares near the river were planted.
Uaibati: When the work finished, there was not enough water in the system to plant because of the drought.
2002/03 wet season
As noted above, because of the prolonged drought, farmers did not commence work preparing the irrigation
channels and the land until the rains started. This happened in most areas in late January. As of the end of
February, no planting had occurred in any of the schemes and the current status of planting in each scheme
is summarised in the Table in Annex F.
2003 dry season
Estimates of planned planting in the 2003 dry season may be ambitious, and do not seem to take into
account the impact of the late wet season planting. With the exception of Halicou and possibly Oemathitu,
all of the WUAs estimated dry season water availability to be well below that of the feasibility study
estimates. As actual capacity has not yet been tested post-rehabilitation in a 'normal' dry season, it is likely
going to be difficult to get farmers who are unaccustomed to planting a second crop to invest time and
resources if they are not convinced of sufficient water availability. Water aside, there are many other
constraining factors which farmers raised that compound their difficulties. These are detailed according to
each scheme in the case studies. The following is a brief summary of the specific issues which hamper
productivity raised by farmers during the interviews, and which will require attention if the yields indicated in
the feasibility study are to be reached.
Major impediments to second cropping/increasing productivity
Threat of flooding which causes damage to intakes, silts up intakes and irrigation channels, damage crops
and shifts the course of the river from the intake.
The onset of the rains can be swift and violent, sending large volumes of water down the mountains every
year which sweeps stones, sediment and other debris past the intakes with often damaging results.
In Baedubu, three years of neglect resulted in primary canals being filled with 2 metres of sediment. The
rehabilitation works did not include de-silting the entire canal. If GTZ had not assisted with part payment for
the use of an excavator, it is likely this canal would have remained silted up this wet season, rendering the
scheme inoperable despite the rehabilitation works. In Indonesian times the primary canal was cleaned with
an excavator every year free of charge. Farmers will have to bear this cost to produce a product they are not
yet sure they can sell. The threat of annual flooding also dissuades farmers from planting near the river in
Dec/Jan on this scheme as their crops may be destroyed prior to harvest.
In Oecussi, where farmers regularly pool their money to pay for excavation works, heavy sedimentation
often re-occurs prior to harvest. If they paid for the clean-up a second time in the one season, payment
would exceed the value of the crop. While farmers conceded they could cope with most of the routine de-
silting annually, they acknowledge that they cannot deal with repairs to major damage caused by flooding
without assistance, and will continue to require heavy machinery to keep the systems operational.
The changing course of the river is also a significant factor on many of the schemes - particularly affecting
dry season planting. New structures to dam the water and feed it into the intake have to be constructed
I According the WUA, only 62 households have ownership rights to this scheme. 26 of these are still in refugee camps
in West Timor and a further 25 live away from the area, travelling back to plant rice. Other households have temporary
user rights but the actual number was not known by the WUA.
ARP IlIl Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                   14



annually, sometimes over several hundred metres, and sometimes the task proves impossible depending on
the particular course of the river. These factors combined have a significant bearing on farmers choosing to
plant a first or second rice crop.
Lack of water/longstanding division of water according to tradition / unsuitability of some areas for planting
in both seasons / unsatisfactory system of water distribution
It was very difficult during discussions to get an idea of whether water availability was the real issue or not.
In some cases (Uaibati, Naktuka in particular), farmers said there was simply not enough water in the dry
season for a second crop on the total paddy area. In others, (Baedubu, Oemathitu) previously established
planting regimes rotated the use of the water to different areas of the scheme in the wet and dry seasons. In
Baedubu, the area close to the river is too muddy to cultivate in the peak rainy season (sections B1 - B4),
so only B5 - B7 are planted then. These in turn are considered too dry to cultivate in the dry season (too
hard for buffalo to puddle), so they are only planted in the wettest season. In Oemathitu, the King
determined the planting rotation to ensure the four major areas dependent on the single source had
sufficient water to plant at least once a year. If there is any water left over, they allow some of the other
areas to use it, but they have not yet tried irrigating it all at once in a single season. Shifting river courses
and varying rainfall patterns add to the uncertainty in the dry season.
Most groups mentioned that water distribution needed to be improved. In Oecussi especially it was felt that
people used water with little regard for their neighbour's needs. The traditional methods were largely
adequate (for single season cropping) but needed improvement to maximise water usage. Some of these
(Baedubu) included sanctions which were enforced with the authority of the sub-district head. It was
acknowledged that it was now the responsibility of the WUAs to improve water distribution but that they had
not yet had a chance to trial the method included in the WUA training since the Associations were formed.
Lack of tractors /high cost of tractors
Under the Indonesian regime, tractors use became increasingly widespread, displacing the use of buffalo in
some areas. This appeared true for the schemes in Maliana and Oecussi, where people were less
interested in talking about buffalo availability. In Viqueque however, buffalo appear to still be used by the
majority for land preparation. Rising fuel costs and the shift from provision of free/subsidised inputs to
provision of sustainable services is moving the full costs onto the farmers as NGOs, government, and
certainly private operators attempt to recover at least the cost of maintenance, and in the case of the latter,
make a profit. Tractors often break down and the timing of their repair is at the whim of the owner/operator.
At least one NGO (ETADEP) is selling hand tractors to groups of farmers using a system of repayment after
five rice harvests, but this is only available in Maliana.
Lack of Buffalo / Buffalo unable to work in the dry season
The use of ploughs is virtually non-existent in East Timor, and despite attempts to introduce ploughing
technology, the rencah system of running animals around the paddy to 'puddle' the soil remains the
preferred method. This requires at least 20 animals working together, and only a minority own herds of this
size. Only Viqueque reported that they had sufficient buffalo to work the amount of paddy available -
however these are owned by certain individuals, and the poorest rent them to work their land at a cost of
half of their harvest. People in Oecussi and Maliana reported that many of their buffalo were shot by militia
in the 1999 violence. This has not been confirmed and many are thought to be free ranging in the hills
where they are difficult to locate and reclaim. However while they may be an option in the wet season,
farmers in the West believe it is not possible to use buffalo in the dry season as they quickly lose condition
due to the lack of fodder at this time of the year. Dry season planting is generally restricted to tractors in the
West, with hoes used on smaller landholdings.
ARP III Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                     15



Lack of rice seed/poor quality rice seed
For the schemes whose rice production was most disrupted such as the Maliana and Viqueque schemes,
the availability of sufficient quantities of rice seed was reported as being a problem although this was not
possible to verify. In Viqueque, GTZ has a program to distribute rice seed for this wet season and next dry
season plantings, so they did not mention seed availability as a major constraint. Maliana does not appear
to have received assistance. Oecussi does not have a quantity problem, but would like improved varieties.
Availability of other inputs and credit
Only farmers in Oecussi reported using feniliser and pesticides regularly in Indonesian times. Whilst it is still
available to buy from Kefamenanu, it is now too expensive. Urea has gone from 5 to 50 cents per kg, TSP
from 7.5 to 75 cents per kilo and 500ml of pesticide costs $7. Only KCL has stayed the same price. Oecussi
farmers were reporting 3.5 - 5 tons per ha in Indonesian times, and this is now down to 1 - 2 tons because
the cost of these inputs is prohibitively expensive. The farmers want fertiliser to be supplied on credit - paid
back after harvest.
Farmers from the schemes visited in Viqueque and Bobonaro by contrast were not interested in using
fertiliser. The head of the WUA in Baedubu claimed he had tried it on his own land and the area of crop
fertilised produced less than normal. His verdict was that the soil was already sufficiently fertile and that
additional inputs resulted in over-fertilisation. The Bilimau farmers believed fertiliser would destroy the
structure of the soil. They said the silt in the river, churned up by the rains and deposited on the paddy was
sufficient to fertilise the crop. They had had limited exposure to pesticides and reported that birds were their
main pest problem. In Viqueque, on the other hand, they had suffered major pest infestation which resulted
in the routine use of pesticide, supplied through the KUD. This is now not available for purchase.
As with all inputs, including tractor and excavator hire, farmers are having difficulty paying for these inputs
and would be reluctant to borrow cash credit as they are uncertain they can sell their rice crops to repay the
loans. Whilst credit may be available through the Micro-credit bank in Maliana and the World Bank Small
Enterprises Program, until prices are somewhat guaranteed (especially for Viqueque and Oecussi farmers
who may not have access to the ASC buyers) it would be difficult to justify encouraging farmers to borrow
for rice growing. What they want is access to credit which would be paid back in harvested paddy, although
this may not be acceptable to lenders. The issue of credit supply and inputs remains a significant barrier to
improving rice production (as was noted in the PAD appraisal of the feasibility studies).
The price of rice/market uncertainty
The price of rice was not really mentioned as a direct impediment to production by any of the groups. This
does not mean it may not be a major determining factor, rather it may indicate a lack of experience in
producing and selling rice in the post 1999 climate. Oecussi farmers reported they exchanged surplus rice
for their other needs rather than sold it, and whilst this was not their preference, the possibility of exchange
was still motivation enough to plant. Bobonaro farmers said they produced mostly for their own
consumption, even in Indonesian times, and that a single crop was often not sufficient to meet household
needs. The Viqueque farmers had not yet produced a surplus since 1999 and didn't know if they could sell it
or not. It may take a few seasons yet to determine to what extent price is a factor in deciding to produce a
surplus.
Difficulty in coordinating the community when only a minority plant in the dry season
Bilimau farmers stated that incursions by cattle and buffalo into the paddy in the dry season in search of
fodder was a major disincentive for farmers to plant. As many farmers live far away from the paddy in this
scheme, the prospect of protecting their crops (by sleeping near the paddy) twice a year was not an
attractive one. In the wet season, there is more fodder available in the hills, and as everyone plants at this
time, they all engage in keeping the animals in check. In the dry season however, those that don't plant are
indifferent to their animal's behaviour, and although sanctions are imposed for crop destruction, they would
ARP Ill Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                     16



rather lose an animal than have to cut and carry food for it throughout the dry season. Those that do plant in
the dry season tend to be the ones who's houses are close to the paddy. The community agreed they could
address this problem themselves however and had started discussing the possibility of building a fence
around the paddy.
Oecussi farmers appear to rely heavily on the erection and maintenance of sturdy fences to deal with stock
intrusions, while Viqueque, with it's second rainy season, does not experience distinct periods of fodder
shortage and animal incursions are not as much of a problem.
Tradition of planting corn/subsistence tendencies/overcoming the hungry period
Traditionally a corn based farming system, rice growing is a relatively new innovation in Timor although it
has a history in some areas dating back to Portuguese times. The percentage of farmers who plant rice only
is extremely low, with significant effort being invested in other staples in a given year. As noted in the Social
Assessment Report of the JAM, 2002, "A basic subsistence survival strategy is to not have all the eggs in
one basket. In line with this strategy Timorese rural households have evolved farming systems that spread
risk and .. ensure that they have access to a range of crops in an attempt to provide adequate food for the
family, irrespective of the nature of the season or any natural disasters that may occur." Indeed, one of the
WUAs complained that they were having difficulty coordinating farmers to plant rice this year as they "are all
busy planting corn" in what was previously the peak rice growing season.
However the results of the WUA interviews may be somewhat at odds with the conclusions of this report
that "Formerly surplus producers, wetland farmers are now in subsistence mode. They have little information
as to what might happen in the future. They are waiting to see". "Until they see that a market exists, and that
they get paid for their rice, they will not produce a surplus". This simplistic view of economic determinism
may be proved right, however as the Oecussi farmers have demonstrated, bartering produce is sufficient
motivation to produce a surplus - as long as inputs do not have to be paid for in cash. Other growers in
Viqueque are willing to plant a crop, regardless of whether they can sell it or not, as they test the post-1999
market situation. The interaction of price, assured markets, rice as a preferred food, the capacity to
adequately store surplus for longer periods, the reversion to corn as a staple post 1999, and the uncertainty
surrounding the operation and management of their irrigation schemes is complex, and it will take some
time before a balance is struck between perceived benefits and returns on labour investment. It is
interesting to note that food shortages are still widely reported in rice-growing areas where farmers have not
been planting since 1999, and this in itself may provide the impetus to recommence rice growing to maintain
subsistence levels if not produce a surplus.
Presence of supporting factors to support rice production
Whilst the rehabilitation of the light to medium damaged schemes may not have increased the total area of
irrigated land (at least under present conditions), most WUA members acknowledged that they assisted the
distribution of water from the intake to the primary canals and made irrigating their land easier. Other
positive factors mentioned by the groups were as follows:
Bobonaro groups:
- There are at least some tractors available for rent
- There are buffalo and cattle available for land preparation
- NGOs like ETADEP and World Vision are providing credit for farming inputs
- The Micro Finance Bank in Maliana is able to provide $100 - $300 loans for farming inputs such as tractor
hire:
ARP III Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                      17



In addition, in Bobonaro, ETADEP is providing ready-to-use hand tractors to groups on credit at a cost of
US$2100. These are to be paid back over five harvests. They also still have the excavator at Raimate which
can be rented for clearing heavy sedimentation.
Viguegue groups:
- Most farmers have buffalo for land preparation, or can rent them. There are enough buffalo for the number
of hectares they want to cultivate
- There are at least three hand tractors in the area that can be rented
- There is an excavator that can be rented
- GTZ provided assistance (to Baedubu) to rent the excavator
- GTZ will provide seeds and pesticide (to Baedubu) - enough for the next two seasons. They are also
working on multiplication of improved seeds in the area.
WUAs as an effective way to manage the community's irrigation resources
Despite the myriad problems facing rice growers, the WUA board members in particular seemed committed
to the idea of WUAs as an appropriate vehicle for management of their water resources. All were well aware
of the burden of self reliance that had been placed upon them and the enormity of the responsibility. They
felt it was too early to comment on their capacity as they had not had a chance to test their associations
during a planting season. When analysing the problems they faced in ensuring crops were planted, WUA's
acknowledged it was their responsibility to work with farmers to overcome them. Problems relating to major
repair work and measures such as river straightening and intake protection were felt to be the responsibility
of the government, as was assistance with marketing crops.
Farmers referred to the distribution systems used previously as 'traditional', with one person (a Waicabu)
designated by the chefe do suco / sub-district head to control the flow from the intake with the full weight of
their authority. Secondary and tertiary distribution was then up to the farmers, with occasionally
unsatisfactory results (particularly in Oecussi). As most areas planted only once a year in peak rainy
seasons, this system seemed to work satisfactorily on the whole. Only Baedubu reported a system of
sanctions for taking too much water. The system of distribution proposed by the WUA training is not far
removed from what occurred previously, however the external authority is lacking in this new environment,
and closer coordination of the WUAs with the sub-district heads may be desirable to ensure this authority,
especially for schemes involving users from multiple suco.
All the WUAs interviewed had established or were in the process of establishing sub-groups, but none had
done much more than this since their foundation and training. The group in Baedubu had taken the initiative
to submit a proposal to GTZ for assistance in hiring the excavator to clear the primary canal. They had also
developed a system of dividing responsibility for keeping the canals cleared according to the amount of
paddy farmed, but had not yet been able to convene a meeting to inform farmers about it. In Halicou and
Bilimau the WUA had coordinated the construction/clearing of the primary and secondary canals and intake.
None of the groups, including the Oecussi groups, had developed new systems of water distribution
according to the training provided. This will likely occur when the land is ready for planting and irrigation
commences in March/April. It will likely take a few seasons of experimentation and support to achieve
optimal allocation - particularly if the next few seasons are characterised by lower than normal rainfall.
The WUA from Baedubu, perhaps one of the most expansive and previously well supported schemes,
seemed the least optimistic about their possibility of success. With farmers from 6 suco to coordinate, many
living over 15km from the paddy lands, the organisational task was huge. As the head of the WUA
lamented: "First the Portuguese forced farmers to plant rice, then the Indonesian regime also forced us to
plant every year - even though the benefits were for ourselves. Now we have democracy, we can't make
the farmers do anything". They fear that a small group (the board members) will end up having to do the
ARP IiI Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                    18



majority of the work if the scheme is to be kept operational. As rice production ceased in 1999, farmers
quickly went back to growing corn as their staple crop and may take some persuading to grow one crop of
rice per year again - let alone two. The scheme is fortunate in having assistance from may provide the
catalyst and support the WUA needs to motivate farmers . The head of the WUA is keen to try to
demonstrate growing a second crop of a different rice variety (which matures quicker) on the land subject to
flooding prior to harvest (Sections B1 - B4), as well as trialing a third crop such as soy bean. While he is
keen to do this at his own cost, bearing the consequence of failure, he is concerned that he is not in a
position to advise older farmers how they should plant. He also described a 'leadership crisis' in the WUA,
as the authority has now been vested in them rather than more traditional enforcers, such as the suco and
sub-district heads. They are unsure whether the community will acknowledge the authority of the WUA in
the event of a dispute. The WUA's capacity to recover the crops promised to GTZ as community
contribution for the use of the excavator will be an interesting test case and should be closely monitored as
an indicator of organisational capacity.
In Bilimau and Halicou, the community were used to the presence and support of a strong sub-district head
committed to rice growing who had an Irrigation officer assigned in Cailako. The irrigation officer oversaw
water distribution, and an excavator was always 'on standby' if they needed to clear the intake. The NGO
ETADEP also had a strong presence there with a fleet of 25 tractors. This is now reduced to four, and two of
these are currently inoperable. The WUAs felt they would have no problem with water distribution, but feel it
is too soon to predict how they will go organising farmers to plant and undertake maintenance works. As
stated above, all groups expressed a concern that certain, heavy maintenance works would continue to be
beyond their capacity to address unassisted. Bilimau has already forewarned they will change the board
members if the WUA does not function well.
The Oecussi WUAs by contrast do not foresee problems in organising their members to undertake
maintenance works etc as they have always done so, and the maximum number of farmers plant in both
seasons according to water availability (and traditional rotations of cropping areas). They are keen to see if
they can alter distribution patterns established by the King to bring more land into production for both the
wet and dry seasons. They expressed the least fears over increasing production, as long as their fertiliser
and pesticide requirements can be met. They were however most concerned with the fact that they cannot
sell rice at the moment, but can only use it to exchange for other goods. They want the Maliana ASC to
arrange bulk purchases of crops, as well as to provide fertiliser on credit until the cash economy is re-
established.
One of the concerns shared by all the groups was the distance board members were expected to travel to
reach subgroup members. As stated above, some of the WUAs have members from up to six different
sucos who may live up to 15km away from the paddy area. Coordinating meetings over these distances in
the absence of motorised transportation requires a major time commitment on the part of the board
members, not to mention the effort of physically visiting sub-groups. This will limit their capacity to engage in
information sharing and advising sub-groups of meetings, and a system of routine meetings should be
established at peak pre-planting times to limit the necessity for organising ad hoc meetings.
Representation of women
Women were under-represented as members of WUAs, and indeed, membership figures held in MAFF
were not gender disaggregated. The overall rate of membership was estimated by the WUA consultants to
be around 5%. In general, they were only included as members if they were widows and did not have a
husband to 'represent' them. Women are engaged in all aspects of rice production with the exception of land
preparation and irrigation repair and maintenance work, which is normally done by men. While their
importance to the production of rice is acknowledged by men, the tradition of men representing the
household in irrigation matters is strong, and women are considered to be equally represented if their
husbands are members, even though they may never attend meetings or participate in decision making
ARP III Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                    19



discussions. The guidelines for establishing WUAs did not specifically encourage achieving gender
balanced membership, and the idea that more women should be involved to reflect their important role
appeared to be a novel one - to both the WUA consultants and the WUAs. Women themselves do not
seem to express any great desire to be more involved, however WUAs should be encouraged to
progressively include more interested women as members to maximise organisational capacity and skills
within the Associations. As women were not specifically invited to attend initial meetings to establish the
WUAs, a subsequent round of meetings to ascertain their desired level of involvement should be conducted
as part of ongoing support to their strengthening.
Implications for ARP 1ll
The recommendations in the ARP II MTR report of the Irrigation Specialist are supported by this study. Their
implementation - especially in regard to strengthening capacity of both the WUA consultants and the WUAs
themselves will go some way towards making them fully operational. The policy for Operation and
Maintenance should be reviewed and approved as quickly as possible to ensure that sufficient budget is
available for the government to honour its commitment. If any of the schemes suffer significant damage in
the next few planting seasons without a speedy response from the government, the community may quickly
become disillusioned with the concept of 'joint' responsibility while they are still struggling to re-establish
their economies. The issue of the excavators in Viqueque and Baucau needs to be resolved. Intended for
the DAOs, these two units appear to have been handed over to the church, who are charging money to
farmers to utilise them. MAFF does not appear to have a clear idea whether the price determined by the
church is in excess of operations and maintenance costs, and if so, where the profit is going. It is important
that this equipment is made available to farmers at an affordable and sustainable price to ensure they are
available for use in the future.
The timing of this study was perhaps premature in that all schemes have not yet had a wet season since
rehabilitation works were completed in which to measure the total area cropped under theirpeak usage.
This should at least indicate the availability of sufficient ploughing capacity to be used as a benchmark for
dry season planting, as well as the level of willingness to plant rice in the post 1999 climate. The total
number of hectares that can actually be irrigated and are actually planted then needs to be accurately
documented by MAFF to determine whether farmers are maximising usage of the land and irrigation
resources. Whilst the use of accurate GIS measurement is preferable, unless it can be applied immediately
following March/April planting, MAFF needs to develop an accurate system of measurement which the
WUAs can apply at the very least as a form of self-monitoring.
2.5 Sub-component 3.1, Animal Health Services
What are female and male farmer's expectations for the vaccination campaigns. Can
they realistically be met by MAFF, and if not, how should expectations be tempered to
encourage continued vaccination coverage?
2.5.1 Vaccination Program
Expectations of the vaccination campaigns
All of the 13 village interviewed reported having received vaccination services. Only one suco in Baucau
said they had only received pig vaccinations, with no information about cattle and chickens. Seven had not
had chicken vaccinations yet, while the Manufahi and Covalima district suco reported 100% coverage of
chickens. (These same suco reported 100% coverage of ail animals although further cross-checking with
the interviewers revealed that the respondents may not have been considering animals that are currently
free-ranging.) What is important from these findings is that farmer expectations that their animals will not get
ARP III Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                    20



sick if they are vaccinated are being met. Indeed, the wholesale loss of a pig flock in one of the suco visited
was said to have occurred because the vaccinators came too late.
Estimating the coverage of animals vaccinated is problematic - and it is directly related to gaining an
accurate estimate of the total number of animals in the suco. If stock numbers are generally low and animals
are tied up or penned the task is easier, but if there are large numbers of free-ranging animals in the suco, it
is almost impossible to gain an accurate picture of their numbers. This may be because people genuinely do
not know with accuracy the size of their herds, or because there is a pronounced fear that a livestock tax will
one day be reintroduced, so the benefits of vaccination are weighed against the disincentive of a future
livestock tax. What seems evident however is that all those animals tethered or penned are generally
vaccinated. Only four suco said people were still apprehensive about it, and this was largely related to a lack
of information about the vaccines and the process rather than an actual belief that it may have negative
consequences - a situation that needs to be rectified before the 2003 campaigns. What is promising is that
all suco interviewed said they would continue to have their animals vaccinated, and that they expected to
increase the numbers vaccinated next time round - especially those animals currently free ranging.
Reasons for not vaccinating
The benefits of vaccinating were well appreciated and their preventive nature in guarding against disease
understood. Where animals were reported to have died following vaccinations, it was specifically stated in
six cases that this was because they were sick already and farmers seemed to understand that vaccinations
will not cure sick animals. The main reasons given why not all animals may be vaccinated in the suco and
their frequency were as follows:
- Lack of information/meeting prior to the campaigns / lack of clear information (7)
- It's hard to gather the (free-ranging) animals from the hills (4)
- Vaccinators could not get to their houses / lack of adequate transport for vaccinators (3)
- People are not aware of the benefits of vaccination (to bother collecting free-range animals) (2)
- The vaccinators did not give us enough time (to get animals from the hills) (1)
- Not enough vaccinators (1)
It should be noted that four of the suco who reported that the information provided was not clear also
insisted 100% of their animals had been vaccinated. This discrepancy was discussed with the interviewers
and they could not explain the community's insistence on complete coverage despite acknowledged
weaknesses in service provision. When the other reasons are aggregated according to their relationship
with the difficulty of collecting free-ranging animals, this appears to be a main contributing factor to lack of
complete vaccination coverage. Subsequent campaigns should focus on targeting free-ranging herds as
farmers become more accustom to the annual event. This may require information about the timing of the
vaccinations reaching the suco and being disseminated sooner to enable the community to organise
holding pens and a coordinated cattle/pig drive. This is also consistent with the findings of the Cattle/Buffalo
Campaign exit interviews where all 32 respondents said they didn't receive information in a timely manner
and required at least one month notice.
Source of information about campaigns and adequacy
The majority of suco reported hearing about the vaccination event through their Chefe do Suco/Aldeia, who
heard about it directly from the vaccinator following a visit to the suco (10 suco). One suco heard about it
from MAFF via the church, one claimed they received no information at all - the vaccinators just arrived and
started vaccinating, and one heard about it directly from the vaccinator (whether the Chefe do suco was
involved or not was not clear). Only two suco groups mentioned the radio, which is in contrast to the findings
of the exit interviews for the Cattle/Buffalo Campaign conducted in December 2002, where all of the 32
respondents claimed they heard about the campaign on the radio rather than from the Chefe do Suco/Aldeia
ARP IlIl Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                   21



(4). It is likely that more general information was provided in this way, heard by the majority, but information
about the actual dates for the events were provided by the vaccinators/suco administration.
Despite overall compliance, there is still an obvious room for improvement in information delivery in the suco
that claimed that lack of good information about the benefits of vaccination led to less people taking steps to
vaccinate. This information would be best delivered through a community meeting prior to the vaccination
event rather than through a reliance on posters and brochures. Although a major part of the information
campaigns, posters and brochures were not mentioned much in either the client exit interviews or interviews
with vaccinators, with the latter indicating meetings as the best method of information dissemination
followed by radio. It will be important that vaccinators have enough time to organise and attend meetings
prior to conducting vaccinations, and this should be incorporated into their job descriptions.
The role of women in vaccinations
Nine of the 13 groups said women were involved in vaccinations - three of these specified this was usually
if the man was not available, and six differentiated the types of animals women were involved in, with pigs
and chickens being their responsibility. Chicken vaccinations seemed to be the least widespread, with only
five suco surveyed reporting this service. This may be because people have to go to the DAO to get the
vaccine to vaccinate their own stock when they suspect the presence of Newcastle's Disease. A more
concerted effort may be required to publicise this service, and women should be targeted as the primary
carers of fowl. Although training for women in vaccinating is specified in the PAD, it appears not to have
been implemented yet and should be addressed as a priority.
Preparedness of the community to pay for vaccinations
This question was asked during the interviews to gauge the level of importance farmer's attached to the
vaccination service as a factor in effective animal husbandry. It was couched in the context of the
government's inability to provide free services indefinitely, and was discussed as a possibility in the years to
come. Interestingly, ten of the suco groups indicated they would pay for vaccinations. Four of these qualified
the statement that it would have to be within their means, while one said only if the government could
guarantee a sale price for livestock. One suco group said they wouldn't pay if government staff were
providing the services, and another said they were doubtful because "even while it's free now, people are
too lazy to have all their animals vaccinated". Two groups said it would be preferable to let the animals die
rather than pay (or pay too much) for vaccinations. In general however, the results of the survey are
promising in that the majority of groups indicated that vaccination was a services they would be prepared to
consider paying a nominal amount for to continue receiving the perceived benefits.
These findings are in contrast to the Results of the feedback from beneficiaries ARP 11, February 2003,
where 87% of 392 individual respondents said they would not pay for services. The discrepancy could be
explained in the way the question was asked, and the fact that people in a group situation may not be so
candid about a refusal to pay. The introduction of a fee for service at this point may be premature, however
the concept should be introduced gradually as part of future vaccination campaigns to maximise cost
recovery and ensure the service can continue to protect valuable economic and social assets.
Implications forARP Ill
Information needs to be provided in a more timely and thorough manner than is currently the case to
accommodate the needs of the minority who appear to be unconvinced of the benefits of vaccinating. In
general, it can be assumed the need for this will lessen in the next few years as acceptance of the necessity
of the service grows. What is more important now is that information about the dates of vaccinations is
provided directly to individual suco at least one month before the event, and that the Chefe do Suco are
instructed/assisted in communicating this information immediately to all aldeia. As discussed in the section
(above) on utilising specific individuals to create demand for services, MAFF could explore the possibility of
nominating a responsible individual per-aldeia to assist with achieving full coverage by organising
ARP III Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                     22



coordinated efforts to locate and corral free-ranging animals that are currently being neglected by their
owners. As part of the NRM activities, the adoption of the penning / cut and carry system of animal
husbandry should also be promoted and supported as a way of reducing animal pressure on the
environment in watersheds in particular.
Chicken vaccination appeared to be the least widespread - possibly because it is not part of the door-to-
door service. Community understanding of the requirements for obtaining vaccinations appeared to be low.
Efforts to implement training required to empower women in particular with information about this service
and how to administer the vaccines should be increased to ensure that chicken stock - vital to household
economies - are protected from potential decimation. If this is not addressed adequately in ARP 11, it should
be included as a priority activity in ARP 111.
While vaccination services are scheduled to remain free of charge until mid-decade, MAFF should start to
consider phasing in charges to help subsidise the cost of treating other diseases which contribute to animal
mortality.
2.5.2 Are VLWs likely to be sustained by the community, and if not, what are the
options for providing sustainable and effective animal husbandry services?
Although non-pilot suco in the survey were selected from sub-districts which had appointed VLWs, the VLW
program was not well known. In fact, only one suco said they had heard about it but then went on to talk
about vaccinators. This is in contrast to the Results of the feedback from beneficiaries ARP 11, February
2003, where 47% of individual respondents said they had heard about VLWs and 35% said they had
participated in selecting them. It is possible that these respondents were also confusing the VLWs with paid
vaccinators.
An attempt was made to gain an understanding of the importance farmers placed on treating sick animals
as an indicator of likely support for livestock health services. Farmers in the nine of the survey villages
reported resorting to traditional medicine, but most would not (or could not) specify what this was or how
widespread the practice. Two specified boiling leaves (papaya), but that this was only used for pigs and
other animals were not treated, but were killed and eaten before they died. Six of the groups said they tried
to contact MAFF / the DLO, but the time lag was an off-putting factor, as well as the expense involved in
travelling to the District town. It is unlikely that this practice is widespread and may have indicated potential
rather than actual behaviour. In general, farmer's are somewhat fatalistic about animal illness, believing that
once sick, it is better to kill and eat the animal rather than attempt to save it with their limited knowledge and
resources. The difficulty people are experience in converting their animals to cash is possibly acting as a
disincentive to treat them, although the need to have significant buffer stocks of pigs in particular for
ceremonial obligations appears to be quite strong, and should provide motivation enough to invest in
treatment for sick animals.
Once the VLW program was explained to the groups, all but two indicated that they would likely call a VLW
to treat a sick animal. One of the latter said it would depend on cost and the other contradicted their initial
statement that they would not call a VLW by saying they would likely pay for these services.
Questions were then asked about how much the cost of a hypothetical service would be, and while none of
the groups were able to estimate this, twelve of the groups indicated that they might pay - depending on the
cost and their ability to pay at the time. One again qualified that they wouldn't pay if the VLW was employed
by the government, and three were not sure they would have money available. The issue of payment in kind
was discussed as an alternative to paying cash, however all groups but one said this would be a decision for
the VLW rather than their own decision. This response seems to acknowledge the unlikelihood of VLWs
ARP Ill Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                    23



agreeing to an in-kind payment. This is probably a realistic response, as the need for payment for service
was explained to them in terms of the VLWs need to replace medicines for the next client. All of the groups
were very supportive of the idea of a VLW - the closer to the suco the better, and all but one thought it was
an appropriate role for a woman (the one that did not said this was because the suco had 9 aldeia and was
too large for a woman to cover - according to female respondents' own assessment). Others emphasised
that training was the key, as long as this provided appropriate skills. Of the current batch of VLWs selected,
only a small minority are women (selection figures were not gender disaggregated). The subsequent
recruitment round should aim to increase the percentage of female recruits to reflect the gender division of
animal husbandry roles.
Implications for ARP l11
The VLW program has not yet gotten underway. Although the first batch of VLWs have been selected, they
have not yet been trained and equipped yet. As such, it is difficult to judge how well they will be accepted
and utilised by the farming community. Community awareness is low, and this will need to be addressed in
ARP 11, preferably through the next vaccination campaign where paid vaccinators could provide information
to those suco with a VLW trained and operating in their sub-district. The tendency to select paid vaccinators
to be trained as VLWs (all VLWs in Oecussi were previously paid vaccinators) will need to be closely
monitored to see if the combination of free service provision (vaccinations) with a paid service (all other
treatments) acts as a disincentive to service utilisation. The perception that the VLWs are government
employees being paid a wage will need to countered if they are expected to operate as private service
providers. The subsequent round of VLW selection should take this into account. In addition, the
dependence on paid vaccinators may be limiting the opportunity for women to take up these opportunities.
Future VLW recruitment processes should encourage a gender balance across districts to ensure women's
participation in paid employment opportunities and to ensure a focus on pigs and chickens as women's
preferred livestock is maintained.
2.6 Sub-component 3.2 Information to farmers
What type of information do female and male farmers require regarding all facets of
agricultural production through to marketing, and what is the most effective means of
communicating this information?
It is extremely difficult for poorly educated farmers to express views about information needs and services
when they do not yet know the possibilities of these kinds of services. As discussed above, there is an
expressed desire to learn about 'new' and 'modern' farming methods, however these need to build on the
traditional practices that have been developed by Timorese farmers over centuries of low/no input farming to
ensure they are appropriate to local conditions. The challenge for MAFF is to develop such information
through interactive trials and demonstrations which result in proven technological innovations suitable for
East Timorese farming systems and conditions. The overwhelmingly preferred method of delivery is through
direct, practical demonstration, a legacy of the Indonesian extension system. While there were many
shortcomings with this system of extension in East Timor and elsewhere, and perhaps more should be
shown for the enormous effort of assigning a PPL to every suco, it represented the best method for ensuring
the adoption of new varieties and techniques for a largely illiterate farming population. While it is
acknowledge that MAFF faces problems with a shortage of human resources to support this face-to-face
delivery of technical training, direct extension as a means of effective communication it should not be left
behind in the rush to develop alternative, less labour intensive solutions which rely on radio and print media.
A focus on disseminating agricultural information for the sake of using up air time is not justified or
appreciated. The tendency of Radio Champion to simply download and translate programs from countries
with incomparable ecological climates and crop production methods is of questionable value, and this was
reflected in the lack of knowledge of/enthusiasm for the agricultural radio programs currently provided by
ARP Ill Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                    24



MAFF, with farmers in the interviews expressing a preference to hear music rather than 'educational'
programs.
Results from the VLW pre tests and the vaccination campaign client exit and vaccinator interviews all
indicate a preference for face-to-face communication as the most effective means of communication. This is
likely because information given to illiterate communities requires a good deal of explanation, and an
environment in which they can field questions and have their misconceptions addressed first-hand. While
written material can perform this function, it is not accessible by the majority (only 34% literacy is reported
nationwide, The Asia Foundation, National Survey of Voter knowledge, 2001). As the recent MTR of MAFF
Information Services demonstrated, there is an tendency on the part of the various divisions to blame low
farmer awareness on the Information and Communication Service without looking at what the information
needs of farmers actually are, and this must be addressed prior to the rush to develop mass dissemination
mechanisms. As the Final Report of the International Communications Expert, ARP II, (March 2003)
concludes, "Current MAFF approaches emphasise providing information but does not adequately weigh its
relevance, appropriateness, applicability by farmers nor how best to present it for farmers to accept. It is
more an ideal or ritual".
In the long term, information and education for the next generation of farmers needs to be addressed, and
perhaps represents the most effective way of bringing about change. The use of children's magazines to
promote simple messages about environmental management and the introduction of modern farming
concepts should be encouraged under ARP 111. The distribution of tree seedlings to schools by the Forestry
division appears to have been well received and should be accompanied by further education in seedling
propagation etc. Trialing of new varieties in schools-based demonstration plots should be promoted, and
teacher education targeted to provide agricultural information and skills of relevance to farming communities
at primary and secondary levels. This would need to be done in close collaboration with the Education
Ministry. The possibility of re-establishing the secondary level farmer schools (SPP) and working closely
with the Universities to develop appropriate curriculum should also be explored, with MAFF acting as an
advisory body. Schools and their teachers represent a significant resource to engage effectively in the
process of disseminating agricultural information, knowledge and skills.
Implications forARP 111
All MAFF divisions need to work more closely with farmers to develop and trial effective technologies to
increase agricultural sustainability and environmental management. Having quality information of real
benefit to farmers is a pre-requisite for it's effective dissemination. Information Services need to focus more
on training DAO staff in effective training and information delivery which are accompanied by practical trial
and demonstration where relevant. Whilst radio and printed material have a role to play in disseminating
broad-based messages, they are no substitute for the delivery of practical information which farmers can
use. Obviously, the emphasis will need to be on quality rather than quantity as there are simply not enough
staff to go round. Farmer field days held jointly with neighbouring villages which capitalise on pre-arranged
activities (ie vaccination campaigns, WUA key maintenance activities, ASC member meetings, market days
etc) are vehicles which are currently underused as opportunities for face-to-face communication of
information and should become cornerstones of MAFFs information strategy in ARP 111.
In an effort to increase MAFF's capacity to provide face-to-face information, the possibility of accessing
other trainingAinformation providers such as NGOs and donor programs should be explored to expand the
options for face-to-face delivery of quality information which can be practically applied within the current
Timorese farming system. Greater efforts to document and utilise the training resources available in East
Timor in the area of agriculture should be a priority of the resource and extension section with the
assistance of the training coordinator in ARP 111. This should start with a survey of donor/NGO programs
who are using or providing training/information services, and resources available should be compiled in an
up-to-date registry of training providers. The emphasis should be on reducing duplication, sharing resources
ARP III Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                    25



and identifying gaps in the availability of quality training programs. Proven materials from the Indonesian
period should also be accessed and collated to assist with the development/updating of appropriate, farmer
friendly resources.
2.7 Sub-component 3.3 - ASCs
What is the level of awareness of the female and male farmers about the services the
ASCs provide/intend to provide?
The level of awareness and membership of ASCs was only examined during the interviews with the WUAs
in Bobonaro and Viqueque. No discussions were held in Aileu. In general, the level of awareness was found
to be extremely low, with many farmers never having heard of the organization. This is in contrast to the
results of MAFF's beneficiary feedback survey, where 91% of respondents claimed knowledge of the ASCs,
with their main source of knowledge being ASC members, the Chefe do Suco and the Management
committee. Given the gender bias of both surveys, relying on predominantly male respondents, women's
level of knowledge was not adequately addressed.
Anecdotally, in Viqueque one group had never heard the term but know there were people buying copra
from their village. It was not confirmed whether this was the ASC or other private buyers. In another, only
one of the farmers in the group had heard the ASC mentioned on the radio, and could specify correctly the
commodities of the respective districts. In the third, Some farmers had heard the term but did not know what
it was.
In Bobanaro, both groups had heard about the ASC and knew it was there, but they did not know any
members and had not utilised any of their services. The situation may change however when rice production
gets underway in these two schemes. What is clear is that the ASCs need to engage in greater self-
promotion in keeping with their capacity to respond to increased demand.
Implications forARP 111
The Oecussi farmers by contrast had not only heard of the Maliana ASC, they had high hopes of them
sending trucks to Oecussi to purchase their rice. Provision of subsidised or guaranteed quality fertiliser was
also a priority service that farmers felt the ASC could provide, preferably in exchange for a portion of the
harvest. In Viqueque, as discussions were with rice farmers, they were interested in their ASC expanding to
provide rice-related inputs. Pesticide was specifically mentioned, as this used to be provided by the KUDs at
the sub-district level and was no longer available for purchase. Further discussions with farmers need to
take place to determine other needs that the ASCs could accommodate beyond those identified through the
initial assessments.
The lack of knowledge of the ASCs is also problematic and needs to be addressed, possibly through the
use of radio. However, as mentioned above, this should be commensurate with the ASC's capacity to
purchase / provide inputs for a larger number of farmers.
3. SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS
The activities likely to be continued from ARP II into ARP IlIl are small scale in nature, and with regard to
component 1 NRM activities, rely on a process of community discussion and decision making to decide on
the nature, location and beneficiaries of activities in a largely democratic manner. The revised operational
manual to guide their development should take into account the World Bank's social safeguard
requirements. The proposed works to rehabilitate a major irrigation scheme to be implemented under ARP
III have been deferred. As such Operational Procedures 4.12 (Involuntary re-settlement), 4.20 (Indigenous
People, 11.03 (Cultural Property) and 7.60 (Projects in Disputed Areas) are not likely to apply to ARP ll.
ARP III Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                    26



4. RECOMMENDATIONS
In recognition that Timor Leste is an emerging country with social institutions and MAFF service delivery
mechanisms still in their early development phases, the ARP 11 Social Assessment recommended that
"assessment of 'social appropriateness' should become an integral, continuous part of the program, and one
that impacts on the way the program is implemented. The idea is to make certain that the assumptions
concerning appropriateness of inputs and effect of the outputs, were actually correct, and suggest changes
if they were not." This recommendation is supported. The MTR process has obviously been an appropriate
vehicle for the assessment of social (and other) appropriateness of the design and implementation of ARP
interventions. The recommendations from the MTR in January/February, if accepted and implemented, will
go some way in refining the inputs to maximise the benefits. These in turn will need to be monitored,
evaluated and incorporated into the implementation plans for ARP 111. Some of the following
recommendations therefore overlap somewhat with what is already underway in the remainder of ARP 11.
Component 1, Options for location of NRM activities at suco level, service delivery mechanisms, and the
creation of demand for services.
The Autonomy Law, expected to be drafted following a comprehensive review of options for suco
level government structures, will define the legally recognised basis of power and the suco
structure for East Timor. During the drafting of the Autonomy Law, MAFF, in it's important role on
the Technical and Political Committees, should consider the need for suco level representation to
assist in implementation of their broader programs. The institutions that eventuate will need to be
acknowledged and examined by MAFF to determine whether ARP Ill NRM activities should be
planned and implemented by the new suco institutions. If they are thought to be appropriate, it will
be important that parallel structures are not established in competition, and that MAFF assists in
overall capacity building of the newly emerging suco structures. Capacity building and support for
these institutions in relation to helping define the demand for services should be a priority under
ARP 111.
*   If the new suco structures prescribed by the Autonomy Law are not sufficiently well defined to be
utilised as a vehicle for implementing ARP Ill NRM activities, the existing method of establishing
new groups, successfully trialed under ARP 11, appears to be appropriate. The identification of new
groups and their members should be done in close collaboration with the Chefe do Suco, Aldeia
and Traditional Leaders (where the suco community respects their authority in whatever form they
take under the autonomy law). This should be done in a flexible manner across suco, taking into
account the existence and success of any farmer or other community groupings that may form the
basis for new NRM groups. It will be important that all interested community members are provided
with quality information about the scope of the ARP NRM activities, and are able to self-nominate if
they are interested in participating. A minimum of three groups per suco should be considered to
ensure the presence of at least one women-only and one mixed group to ensure a minimal 50%
representation of women.
*  The funding mechanisms developed under ARP li, whilst not conforming to the Grant Agreement,
appear to be appropriate to the community's needs for transparency. The Autonomy Law will likely
address this issue in developing appropriate government structures and mechanisms for program
funding, and ARP Ill should consider the resulting mechanisms in developing a new grant
agreement. The mechanisms developed by CEP and adopted by ARP 11, which include the public
display of financial transactions should be re-evaluated in light of the high level of illiteracy rates. In
the interests of promoting self reliance, communities should be encouraged to develop their own
plans for ensuring transparency, following the broad principles developed under ARP II, and these
should be endorsed by group members as a prerequisite to receiving funding. The use of regular
ARP III Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                    27



community meetings at which this information is presented verbally for discussion and comment to
all interested parties should be encouraged as a meaningful method of information dissemination.
*   In order to create expanded demand for services, a system of participatory planning for NRM
should be developed for use in ARP 111. The methodology developed under the AETRDP program
has been provided to MAFF as a workable, applied planning process which empowers
communities to assess their own specific problems and needs. This material should be modified to
the needs of ARP and adapted and a training program developed to train facilitators in it's
application. In addition, the resulting community plans should have more focus on the future
collection and use of benefits (such as sale of tree products and fish) to be used for
additional/expanded NRM activities beyond the lives of ARP 11 and 111.
*   Trained, contracted facilitators, preferably with some experience in both agricultural production and
participatory planning methods, represent the most effective way to facilitate demand for services
in the area of NRM activities. It is acknowledged that recruitment of suitably experienced and
trained facilitators is problematic. This means that the training provided to them by MAFF must be
of sufficient quality and quantity to equip them with the required skills for facilitating preparation of
well developed proposals in a participatory manner. The newly recruited facilitators in ARP 11
should be closely monitored and their performance evaluated to ensure that their combination of
skills and the training provided to them meets the needs of the position. Particular attention will
need to be given to the needs of female facilitators to ensure they are fully supported in their role,
resulting in low turnover rates.
*   As ARP 11 and III will be providing the funding for facilitators positions, ARP Ill should explore the
possibility of encouraging the contracting of ARP 11 facilitators as permanent DAO staff to assist
existing technical staff with participatory identification of a broad range of NRM activities. These
facilitators would provide the community liaison services for expanding NRM activities into new
suco. This process could then be used to inform development of MAFFs ongoing program services,
providing the 'bottom-up' input, as well as assisting farmers in non-pilot suco to access available
services.
*   In the absence of funding for such positions in the foreseeable future however, MAFF should
consider negotiating with the OALGD to develop close working relations with the 60 newly
appointed Community Development Officers based in the sub-district offices. While OALGD is
providing initial training in participatory planning methodologies, the CDOs will not have a budget to
implement activities. MAFF could negotiate the provision of supplemental training in participatory
planning of NRM activities and the CDOs could provide facilitation / extension services for activities
which the NRM component could fund. As most of the CDOs will be based in suco with economies
dependent on agricultural production, the development of close working relations and partnerships
with MAFF represents a real option to improve MAFF's outreach capability.
*   Alternative mechanisms such as contracting NGOs to provide facilitation services under
Component 1 should also be explored in ARP 111. However it is acknowledged that the budgetary
requirements for this will likely be beyond MAFFs capacity following completion of ARP 111. What is
important in this model is that NGOs may be able to access funding from other sources to continue
working in ARP III suco, and expand their program to other suco with technical support from MAFF.
The contracts would have to be carefully defined under this arrangement to ensure MAFF is
receiving the quality of services it requires. It is not envisaged that MAFF would build NGO capacity
in this regard, but would contract those few local NGOs with International NGO support or a proven
track record in the facilitation and implementation of NRM/agricultural activities.
Component 2. Rapid Rehabilitation of Infrastructure - Light to Medium Damaged Irrigation Schemes
ARP IIl Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                    28



*   The policy for Operation and Maintenance of irrigation schemes should be reviewed and approved
as quickly as possible to ensure that sufficient budget is available for the government to honour its
commitment to maintenance costs. If any of the schemes suffer significant damage in the next few
planting seasons without a speedy response from the government, the community may quickly
become disillusioned with the concept of 'joint' responsibility while they are still struggling to re-
establish their economies.
*   None of the schemes rehabilitated have had a wet season since rehabilitation works were
completed in which to measure the total area cropped under their peak usage. This should at least
indicate the availability of sufficient ploughing capacity and other inputs to be used as a benchmark
for dry season planting, as well as the level of willingness to plant rice in the post 1999 climate. The
total number of hectares that can actually be irrigated and are actually planted then needs to be
accurately documented by MAFF to determine whether farmers are maximising usage of the land
and irrigation resources. Whilst the use of accurate GIS measurement is preferable, unless it can
be applied immediately following March/April planting, MAFF needs to develop an accurate system
of measurement which the WUAs can apply at the very least as a form of self-monitoring.
*   Following close monitoring of the 2003 rainy and dry season cropping tendencies, a flexible
approach to providing assistance or support based on the specific needs of each system should be
considered if utilisation of irrigated land is less than optimal. This may include measures such as:
-   Continuing support of the WUA consultants. (This is being addressed under ARP 11 with
the recruitment of a WUA adviser), however the monitoring and support role of the WUA
consultants will likely need to continue into ARP Ill depending on the specific needs of the
individual WUAs;
-   Monitoring the role of the WUAs and ensuring their structures are appropriate for the task
of managing their water resources equitably. This may include strengthening the
supporting role of the Chefe do Suco or the sub-district head if the authority of the WUAs
is not sufficient to settle disputes, organise voluntary labour for maintenance works or
ensure compliance with distribution quotas;
-   As part of the ongoing development of the WUAs, encourage membership of women to
assist in related organisational activities based on merit and interest rather than on
traditional concepts of male headed household representation;
-   Develop an appropriate system of monitoring to identify constraints to production as they
are experienced by farmers - especially those with the least access to the means for land
preparation. These need to be documented and discussed by MAFF to decide whether
cost effective means of assistance can and should be provided and by what means;
-   Continuing to work more closely with the crops division to address the question of
appropriate inputs, such as affordable fertiliser and alternatives to chemical pesticide, as
well as the possibility of expanding the types of crops produced on irrigated land if the
market for rice does not improve;
-   Improving marketing opportunities and provision of affordable inputs by linking Oecussi
and Viqueque producers with the Maliana ASC, or expanding the commodities of the
Viqueque ASC to include rice;
-   Aiding provision of credit for inputs by linking farmers with appropriate credit services such
as SEPII, the Micro-Finance program, and NGOs active in the area that offer appropriate
services. Credit for tractor hire will be particularly important, however the promotion of
credit for rice growing needs to take into account existing marketing opportunities to
ensure debts are not incurred for a product that cannot be sold for cash. Alternative forms
of credit, such as payment in rice, may need to be considered. The ASC may be a
suitable vehicle for exploring such an option;
-   Establishing better liaison with NGOs active in the area of rice production, particularly
those involved in multiplication of better quality seed varieties that are acceptable to
ARP III Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                    29



farmers (such as GTZ) to see if assistance can be extended to other schemes
rehabilitated under ARP I and 11;
Reconsidering the freeze on building WUA facilities in Oecussi. Their maintenance
equipment has to be stored in individual homes at present, and the likelihood of them
being used for other purposes and requiring replacement sooner is increased;
Resolving the issue of the excavators in Viqueque and Baucau. Intended for the DAOs,
these two units appear to have been handed over to the church, who are charging money
to farmers to utilise them. MAFF does not appear to have a clear idea about whether the
price determined by the church is in excess of operations and maintenance costs, and if
so, where the profit is going. It is important that this equipment is made available to
farmers at an affordable and sustainable price to ensure they are available for use in the
future.
Sub-component 3.1, Animal Health Services
*   Vaccination services are being provided successfully to an increasing number of farmers, however
information about the services needs to be provided in a more timely and thorough manner than is
currently the case to accommodate the needs of the minority who appear to be unconvinced of the
benefits of vaccinating. One of the major factors hampering 100% coverage is the difficulty farmer's
have in locating and corralling their free-ranging livestock. Information about the dates of
vaccinations must be provided directly to individual suco at least one month before the event, and
the Chefe do Suco must be instructed/assisted in communicating this information immediately to all
aldeia. The contracts of the vaccinators should reflect their important role in providing this
communication. MAFF should also explore the possibility of nominating a responsible individual
per-aldeia to assist with achieving full coverage by organising coordinated efforts to locate and
corral free-ranging animals that are currently being missed by the campaigns.
* Chicken vaccination appeared to be the least widespread - possibly because it is not part of the
door-to-door service. Community understanding of the requirements for obtaining vaccinations
appeared to be low. Efforts to implement training required to empower women in particular with
information about this service and how to administer the vaccines should be increased to ensure
that chicken stock - vital to household economies - are protected from potential decimation. If this
is not addressed adequately in ARP II, it should be included as a priority activity in ARP lil.
*   While vaccination services are scheduled to remain free of charge until mid-decade, MAFF should
start to consider phasing in charges to help subsidise the cost of treating other diseases which
contribute to animal mortality.
*   Community awareness of the impending VLW service is low, and this will need to be addressed in
ARP II. This should be done through the next vaccination campaign where paid vaccinators could
provide information to those suco with a VLW trained and operating in their sub-district. Information
on the expanded animal health services, how to access them and the standard cost of the services
will be vital to the success of the VLWs.
*   The tendency to select paid vaccinators to be trained as VLWs will need to be closely monitored to
see if the combination of free service provision (vaccinations) with a paid service (all other
treatments) acts as a disincentive to service utilisation. The perception that the VLWs are
government employees will need to countered if they are expected to operate as private service
providers. The subsequent round of VLW selection should take this into account. In addition, the
dependence on paid vaccinators may be limiting the opportunity for women to take up these
opportunities. Future VLW recruitment processes should seek a gender balance across districts to
ARP III Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                    30



ensure women's participation in paid employment opportunities, and to ensure a focus on pigs and
chickens as women's preferred livestock is maintained.
Sub-component 3.2 Information to farmers
*   Farmers overwhelmingly express a preference for the delivery of information to improve their
productivity face-to-face, including practical trial and demonstration where relevant. Whilst radio
and printed material have a role to play in disseminating broad-based messages, they are no
substitute for the delivery of practical information which farmers can use. Obviously, the emphasis
will need to be on quality rather than quantity as there are simply not enough staff to provide the
required level of hands-on interface. However this could be maximised through the use of farmer
field days held jointly with neighbouring villages which capitalise on pre-arranged activities (ie
vaccination campaigns, WUA key maintenance activities, ASC member meetings, market days etc)
and these field based active information sessions should become cornerstones of MAFFs
information strategy in ARP l1l. Improved training should also be provided to DAO staff in
developing better methods of information and training delivery, and more importantly, developing
relevant messages/skills sets which farmers can apply within their farming system.
*  The possibility of accessing other trainingAnformation providers such as NGOs and donor
programs should be explored to expand the options for face-to-face delivery of quality information
which can be practically applied within the current Timorese farming system. To this end, NGOs
and other training service providers should be used more extensively in ARP Ill. Greater efforts to
document and utilise the training resources available in East Timor in the area of agriculture should
be a priority of the resource and extension section with the assistance of the training coordinator.
This should start with a survey of donor/NGO programs who are using or providing
training/information services, and available resources should be compiled in an up-to-date registry
of training providers. The emphasis should be on reducing duplication, sharing resources and
identifying gaps in the availability of quality training programs. Proven materials from the
Indonesian period should also be accessed and collated to assist with the developmenVupdating of
appropriate, farmer friendly resources.
*   In the long term, information and education for the next generation of farmers needs to be
addressed, and perhaps represents the most effective way of bringing about change. Schools and
their teachers represent a significant resource to engage effectively in the process of disseminating
agricultural information, knowledge and skills. The use of children's magazines to promote simple
messages about environmental management and the introduction of modern farming concepts
should be encouraged under ARP l1l. Trialing of new varieties in schools-based demonstration
plots should be promoted, and teacher education targeted to provide agricultural information and
skills of relevance to farming communities at primary and secondary levels. This would need to be
done in close collaboration with the Education Ministry. The possibility of re-establishing the
secondary level farmer schools (SPP) and working closely with the Universities to develop
appropriate curriculum should also be explored, with MAFF acting as an advisory body.
*   Radio remains an appropriate medium for the delivery of simple information messages and
creating demand for services. ASCs could be further publicised via the radio as their range of
services increases. ARP Illi should look at ways to encourage the use of community radio stations
provided through CEP and address the high cost and timing issues which constrain their use for
ARP information dissemination.
Sub-component 3.3 Agricultural Services Centres
ARP III Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                    31



* Farmers that had not heard of the ASCs had difficulty in conceptualising what sort of services they
might be able to provide for them. In Viqueque, as discussions were with rice farmers, they were
interested in their ASC expanding to provide rice-related inputs. Pesticide was specifically
mentioned, as this use to be provided by the KUDs at the sub-district level and was no longer
available for purchase. Oecussi farmers by contrast had heard of the ASCs and were keen for the
Maliana ASC to establish trading links to purchase their rice and provide subsidised or guaranteed
quality fertiliser in exchange for a portion of the harvest (if the rice cannot be sold). Further
discussions with farmers need to take place to determine other needs that the ASCs could
accommodate by diversifying services no longer available to farmers. The development of a further
two ASCs under ARP 11 and Ill should initiate broader discussions with farmers about the types of
services required and the best way to provide and pay for them.
ARP Ill Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                      32



REFERENCES
ARP II Project Appraisal Document, September 28, 2001
Burgess, S, ARP II Preliminary Social Assessment Study, June 2001
The Asia Foundation, East Timor National Survey of Voter Knowledge, 2001
National Democratic Institute for International Affairs (NDI), Government Within Reach, January 2003
MAFF Working Group, Analysis of the Timor Leste Household Survey for Agriculture, March 2002
Fernando dos Santos, Results of the Feedback from the Beneficiary Survey, ARP II, January 2003
Government, Donors, National and International NGOs and Civil Society, Community Development Review,
November 2001
Bergau, N, Final Report of the Communications Expert, ARP II, March 2003
UNDP, Participatory Potential Assessment, 2002
Second Supervision Mission Aide Memoire, ARP II, July 2002
MAFF, Implementation Completion Report, ARP I, June 2002
Joint Donors Agricultural Mission to Timor Leste, Final Mission Report, October 2002
MAFF, Operations Manual for Component 1, Natural Resources Management, August 2002
SNC/Lavalin International, Feasibility and Engineering Study in respect of Rehabilitation of Identified
Irrigation Schemes in East Timor, 2001
ARP III Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                    33



ANNEX A Terms of Reference
Timor-Leste: Third Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Review of Social Aspects
Terms of Reference for Social Specialist
Role
The Consultant will be an integral member of the World Bank's pre-appraisal mission of the Third Agriculture
Rehabilitation Project (ARP ll). She will work closely with the staff of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry
and Fisheries and a small team of East Timorese social experts (to be selected by the consultant) in
undertaking a social review of ARP ll, and determine whether the proposed project is socially and culturally
sound. To the maximum extent possible, the consultant will seek to involve East Timorese researchers
who previously participated in agricultural social assessments, both inside of MAFF and at the local
university. Field work could be contracted out if needed.
Background
Though much of East Timor has recovered from the effects of the traumatic episode of violence and
destruction that followed the 1999 referendum for independence, it is having to cope with severe draught
conditions. Nowhere is this impact greatest than in the rural agriculture sector, which must sustain 90% of
the population and account for 90% of foreign exchange (ignoring aid). East Timor's rural communities, at
the dawn of independence, were faced with the daunting challenge of recovering and rebuilding their
livelihoods against the background of a weak and practically non-existent institutional environment. This
challenge has been made far harder by floods in 1999, lack of farm inputs in 2000 and 2001 and now a long
dry season in 2002. The situation is so critical in some areas that 2002 may become a famine year for some
of the districts of East Timor.
At present, IDA has financed out of the Trust Fund for East Timor (TFET) three projects that relate to East
Timor's rural community. These are the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (ARP), the Community
Empowerment Project (CEP) and the Small Enterprises Project (SEP). All three projects, aimed at providing
emergency recovery support, have addressed different aspects of the community, and have been running
successfully for almost two years.
As East Timor withdraws from a phase of emergency aid and settles into a development phase, there is a
need to conduct a social review to identify knowledge gaps and issues that should be integrated into the
development of the Third Agriculture Rehabilitation Project. Against this backdrop there is a need to
evaluate not just where the remaining priority needs are but the reasons why some areas have been hit
particularly hard by the present drought - why are traditional coping strategies beginning to fail in some
places and not in others? How can Timorese farmers progress from a culture of dependency to a culture of
empowerment, where they are able to ask for and receive the services they need? And how can ARP II and
ARP IlIl best address the needs of farmers, and help build effective links between communities and MAFF to
address present and future needs? Specifically, how can the current ARP components - Participatory
Development and Natural Resources Management, Community Irrigation and Roads Rehabilitation,
Information to Farmers, Village Livestock Workers and Vaccination, Agriculture Service Centers, and Policy
and Strategy Support - be best adjusted to meet farmers' needs and help build a sustainable agriculture
program in Timor-Leste?
ANNEX A Terms of Reference



Many statistical and anecdotal resources are available for such a study, including the Social Assessment
related to ARP II, the Implementation Completion Report of ARP I, and the mid-term review results of ARP
11. However, Timor has been in a state of flux and these resources need to be used with some caution.
Various other reports and surveys have been generated by projects and activities in the rural sector. These
include the recent Poverty Survey, the last Joint Donors Agriculture Mission Report, and miscellaneous
reports produced by the AusAID, UNOPs and USAID-funded projects.
Tasks
The consultant would work on two stages:
o A preliminary review of lessons learned from ARP II, immediately prior to and during the Mid-
Term Review workshop scheduled for January 29-February 1, 2002.
o A more detailed social appraisal of ARP l1l.
Key Questions to be Investigated:
1. Lessons Leamed in ARP 11
Due to the December 2002 riots, the consultant's preliminary visit to Timor-Leste had to be cancelled.
Hence, the consultant will only have two weeks in-country prior to the mid-term review workshop. During
these two weeks, it is recommended that she familiarize herself with the ARP team and review materials;
conduct field visits to selected project sites; liaise closely with project staff and donors on lessons learned
and project feedback; and prepare the methodology and logistics for the social assessment.
Within the time available, the consultant should also liaise closely with the MAFF evaluation team led by
Fernando dos Santos to help them interpret the results of the ARP II mid-term review survey from a social
perspective, and distill potential lessons for the design of ARP ll.
During the Mid-Term Review workshop (January 29-February 1, 2003), the consultant should work closely
with the workshop organizers, component teams and participants and the World Bank team in helping the
participants distill lessons from ARP II. This evaluation (conducted in small group discussions) should in
particular focus on the following:
(a)      Participatory Natural Resources Management Component (Component 1).        In
November 2002, Component 1 of ARP II disbursed the first installment of village grants to 14
pilot communities for natural resources management activities (including nurseries, living
fences, reforestation, fish pond management). While it is not yet possible to assess actual
impact, project implementers should assess lessons learned on the process used for
Component 1: for example, was the selection of pilot villages in accordance with the
criteria? Was the selection and training of facilitators appropriate? Was the original criteria
and procedures (as defined in the Operational Manual) appropriate? How can the
management of the grants by the community groups be strengthened? What are the
recommended adjustments for the second stage villages, particularly with respect to the
ANNEX A Terms of Reference



selection and training of second-stage facilitators, and technical follow-up? How can the
project encourage genuine participatory planning'?
(b)      Rapid Infrastructure Rehabilitation (Component 2). The mid-term review should assess
the soundness of the process used in (a) community irrigation and road schemes; and (b)
light-to-medium damaged schemes.  With respect to (b), the assessment should pay
particular attention to the following questions: (i) why are farmers not planting second crops?
(are there particular socio-cultural constraints that need to be overcome?) (ii) what are the
recommended processes by which Water Users Associations could be strengthened to
realistically operate these schemes? (iii) what community contribution to operation and
maintenance can be expected?; (iv) are there any likely land disputes caused by the
rehabilitation works that need to be mitigated? 2
(c)      Animal Health Services (Sub-Component 3.1).  What has been the experience with
vaccination campaigns? What processes should be strengthened to deliver more effective
vaccination? Has the process of selection of village livestock workers been effective in
ensuring that (a) they are the best for the job; and (b) that they will effectively deliver the
services? The mid-term review discussion should recommend any adjustments that may be
necessary.
(d)      Information to Farmers (Sub-Component 3.2).     How can the present system  of
information (MAFF-based) be best adjusted to serve the needs of the farmers? Are the
means of communication appropriate?
(e)      Agriculture Service Centers (ASCs). (Sub-Component 3.3) The project has created 3
Agriculture Service Centers, in Bobonaro, Viqueque and Aileu. Preliminary experience
shows that the highest demand for ASC services is on transportation. The mid-term review
should assess lessons learned from ASC operations and how they might be strengthened to
meet                              farmers'                            demand.
The consultant will be working with the mid-term review workshop team and World Bank team in facilitating
these discussions and helping compile the final results.
1L Targeting Interventions for ARP I11
The Mid-Term Review of ARP Ill should provide the basis for ARP Ill design. Due to limited funding
under ARP Ill (US$3 million) it is expected that the project will focus on consolidating the 'softer'
aspects of the ARP program - those that require more time to become institutionalized within MAFF.
The preference will be for refining existing components (village livestock workers, participatory NRM,
community irrigation, information program) according to lessons learned, rather than initiating new
activities that may take years to consolidate.
Some of the lessons emerging from the November supervision mission were that the first batch of
facilitators was composed primarily of ex-extension workers trained during the Indonesian times; this
ended up compromising their ability to facilitate genuine participatory planning.
2 Steven Burgess commissioned the work of a team of local experts to investigate potential land disputes in
the larger irrigation schemes rehabilitated under ARP II. The team found no evidence of critical land
disputes; however, some of the sites were previously inhabited by transmigrants who then fled to
Indonesia. This may have implications for future land claims.
ANNEX A Terms of Reference



The consultant should help assess and guide the social soundness of the ARP IlIl design, with particular
focus on the following aspects:
(a)      Overall Soundness of ARP IlIl Design. Based on the lessons learned from the ARP II mid-
term review and other similar projects, the Consultant should propose adjustments in the
ARP IlIl design that would take into consideration these lessons, and the overall soundness
of the project design from a social point of view. In this review, the consultant should (a)
assess whether the components proposed for ARP IlIl are adequate in the present socio-
cultural context of Timor-Leste; and (b) make recommendations to ensure that the design of
these components are socially and culturally sound.
(b)      Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management. Timor-Leste suffers
from a long legacy of farmers' dependency and disempowerment inherited from the
Indonesian system. This is particular problematic in the agriculture and rural development
sectors, where there is scarce government budget and staffing, and where the weakness of
local government makes bottom-up, demand-based approaches particularly challenging.
Past Joint Donors Agriculture Missions have stressed the need to develop an effective
system of service delivery that relies on genuine participatory planning and offers farmers
the services they need, when they need it. Such a system should also help strengthen
community self-reliance and traditional management to make communities less dependent
on government hand-outs and more resilient to external shocks (e.g. of droughts and floods,
and market instability). Options for effective service delivery might include: (a) strengthening
participatory planning skills of MAFF and DAO staff; (b) relying on contracted facilitators (ex-
PPLs) for key functions; (c) training a new cadre of facilitators and/or university agriculture
graduates to serve as effective bottom-up intermediaries between farmers and the
government; (d) relying on non-agriculture mechanisms of local government (such as District
Development Workers) and governance (such as Conselhos do Suco); (e) selecting and
training key farmers or farmers groups; and/or (f) strengthening local NGOs. The Consultant
should assess and propose the best options for ARP IlIl to invest on in order to help create
an     effective   and     participatory  system     of    service    delivery.
(c)      Gender Focus. One of the major weaknesses of ARP I was its gender impact. Of particular
concern to MAFF is its ability to recruit and effectively maintain female staff and facilitators,
provide training to women farmers, and effectively target women groups in field
interventions.  Many of the ARP program activities, for example - such as irrigation
rehabilitation, reforestation and agro-forestry - traditionally favor male farmers.  In
component 1, many of the women farmers' proposals were ineligible because they involved
direct income generation (such as sewing or processing machines). The Consultant should
assess how best to change these incentives to enable ARP Illi to effectively target women
farmers.
(d)      Delivery to Communities. Past ARP projects have relied on community contractors (for
irrigation) or existing farmers' groups (for natural resource management) for release of
village grants. The Consultant should assess the lessons of experience learned from the
implementation of these mechanisms, and propose ways whereby the disbursement of the
funds could be strengthened to maximize their benefits, accountability, and transparency.
(e)      Social Safeguards. The consultant should assess whether any of the key social safeguards
of the World Bank (e.g. Operational Procedure 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement;
Operational Directive 4.20 on Indigenous People; Operational Procedure 11.03 on Cultural
Property, and Operational Procedure 7.60 on Projects in Disputed Areas) would apply to
ANNEX A Terms of Reference



ARP l1l, and if so, propose appropriate mitigative measures (which might include, for
example, exclusion of sites where such safeguard risks would apply).
Methodology
The methodology remains to be detailed, but is expected to include the following:
1) The first stage of the social appraisal of ARP IlIl would involve a review of the existing data. This would
include the Social Assessment conducted as a background to the joint donors mission (March 2001),
and under ARP II (December 2002), the latest (September 2002) Joint Missions Agriculture Report, the
UN Country Assessment Report, the results of the Timor-Leste Poverty Study (particularly with respect
to agriculture), relevant supervision mission reports, the evaluation report for ARP I and mid-term
review of ARP II, and relevant data from similar projects in Timor-Leste.
2) The secondary review would be complemented by rapid rural appraisals and field studies in selected
areas to discuss the main hypotheses with farmers, preferably in close collaboration with MAFF staff. It
is envisaged that this will cover different types of topographic situations (e.g. irrigated areas, upland
areas, border vs. non-border areas), as well as different socio-economic groups. Interviews with other
government agencies, NGOs, other donors, church groups, private sector, and other interest groups
could also be held during this period.
3) Preliminary results should be discussed in detail with MAFF and civil society representatives prior to the
completion of the draft social appraisal report. The draft report should be provided to the World Bank
for comments.
4) The World Bank would then conduct the pre-appraisal mission for ARP l1l. It is expected that this
mission will require some interactive adjustment of the social appraisal report, which could be done by
e-mail.
5) The final social appraisal report should be finalized around the time of the conclusion of the pre-
appraisal mission.
6) In addition to the social appraisal report, the Consultant should provide MAFF with feedback on how
best to adjust the Operational Manual for Component 1 (Participatory Development and NRM) based
on the lessons learned during the mid-term review.
ANNEX A Terms of Reference



ANNEX B QUESTION GUIDE FOR FOCUS GROUP DISCUSSIONS
1. Prepare materials for Venn Diagramming, including:
a. Four circles of coloured paper of about three different sizes each
b. Three squares of a different coloured paper of three different sizes each
c. Butcher's paper with an empty circle for the village (or this can be drawn on the
ground)
d. Cello tape
e. Different coloured marker pens
2. Designate a team member for facilitation, and one for recording the interview and the Venn
Diagram.
3. Explain the purpose of the Venn Diagram, i.e. so that we all have a good understanding of
the groups and individuals which are important to the community with regards to
agricultural production and the management of their suco's natural resources. (You
may need to spend some time discussing what we mean by 'management of natural
resources', i.e. the way they use their resources to meet their subsistence needs and earn
a living in a way that ensures the resources will remain in a productive condition
5. Ask the group if there are any individuals from inside the village who have specialist
skills in agriculture / animal husbandry / forest production? Make a list on the flip chart.
6. Ask the group to name any groups or organizations within the suco that are involved in
the management of development activities (including but not limited to agriculture). Give
the community plenty of time to answer this question. Prompt to make sure the following
groups are considered, but make sure to emphasise we are talking about groups involved
in development activities. If the community do not agree that groups like these exist in
their suco, don't include them on the list.
a. Farmers groups, male/female or mixed
b. Conselho do Suco (If considered to be inside the community)
c. Chefe do Suco / Chefe do Aldeia
d. Conselho do Katuas
e. Church groups
f. Youth groups (OJT)
g. Women's groups (OMT)
h. Money lenders/Credit providers/savings groups
i. ARP 11 groups/Implementation Team
7. Make a list on the flip chart. Agree and assign a symbol for each group (for illiterate
participants).
8. Next, show the group the different sized circles of paper. Ask the group to think about
which are the most important individuals / organizations in organising and assisting the
community in development activities (including but not limited to agriculture). Explain that
they should allocate a large circle to the most important individuals / organizations, and the
smallest circle to the least important. Direct the group to choose which size circle best fits
ANNEX B Interview Guide for Focus Group Discussions



each individual / organization, starting with the most important. Explain that more than one
individual / organization can have the same sized circle - as long as they are considered
to be of equal importance. Get the community to write the name (or draw a picture) of the
organisation/individual on the circle.
9. Place all the circles within the circle (suco boundary) on the flip chart (or on the ground)
10. Next, ask what important individuals/groups are from outside the suco. Prompt to make
sure the following groups are considered, but make sure to emphasise we are talking
about groups involved in development activities
a. Koordinator do Posto
b. Church groups
c. NGOs
d. Conselho do Suco (If considered to be inside community)
e. Village Livestock Worker (If considered to be inside the community)
f.  DAO staff
g. MAFF staff
h. District Development Officer
i.  District based organisations
j.  Money lenders/Credit providers
k. Providers of assistance in agricultural production (extension workers,
private businesses, government services)
I. Traders/market buyers
m. Other
10. Make a list on the flip chart. Agree and assign a symbol for each group (for illiterate
participants).
11. Next, show the group the different sized squares of paper. Ask the group to think about
which are the most important individuals / organizations in organising and assisting the
community in development activities (including but not limited to agriculture). Explain that
we will allocate a large square to the most important individuals / organizations, and the
smallest square to the least important. Direct the group to choose which size square best
fits each individual / organization, starting with the most important. Explain that more than
one individual / organization can have the same sized square - as long as they are
considered to be of equal importance. Get the community to write the name (or draw a
picture) of the organization / individual on the square.
12. Place all the squares outside the circle (suco boundary) on the flip chart (or on the ground)
ANNEX B Interview Guide for Focus Group Discussions



13. Now it is time to "interview the diagram". This is the most important step. For each circle
and square ask the following questions
a. (for individuals with specialist skills in agriculture both inside and outside
the village) Do you ever go to them for advice / do they provide the community
with advice?
b. What sort of advice do they provide? (Ask for a concrete example)
c. How often does this happen?
d. If they are outside the village, how often do they visit, and how often do the
community go to them?
e. (for other individuals inside and outside the village) What is their main function
or role in development activities (be sure to limit the discussion to development
activities, but it can be briader than just agriculture)?
f. (for groups inside the village) How many members are there in the group (male
or female)?
g. (for groups inside and outside the village) What is their main function or role in
development activities (be sure to limit the discussion to development activities)?
h. Are they still active now? If not, why not?
i. If so, what was the most recent development activity they were involved in? (ask
for a concrete example)
j. Was the activity successful? Why / Why not?
Record your discussion of each group with the community on the separate sheets provided:
ANNEX B Interview Guide for Focus Group Discussions



Name of Suco:                  Sub-District:                  District:_
Pilot suco? (Y/N)        People present at discussions: Total men:  Total women:_
Village office holders:_
Implementation Team:                         Sub-group members:_
INDIVIDUALS INSIDE THE SUCO
1 .Name:_
2. Name:_
3. Name:_
4. Name:
GROUPS / ORGANISATIONS INSIDE THE SUCO
1. Name:_
2. Name:_
3. Name:
4. Name:_
5. Name:_
6. Name:
ANNEX B Interview Guide for Focus Group Discussions



INDIVIDUALS OUTSIDE THE SUCO
1 .Name:    m
2. Name:_
3. Name:
4. Name:_
GROUPS / ORGANISATIONS OUTSIDE THE SUCO
1. Name:_
2. Name:_
3. Name:
4. Name:_
5. Name:_
6. Name:
7. Name:_
ANNEX B Interview Guide for Focus Group Discussions



FOLLOW-UP QUESTIONS
7.1 What agricultural services / information have been delivered in the suco following the
emergency period (in 2002/2003), and where did they come from? (prompt for DAO services /
activities / information have they received?) NB If vaccination is mentioned, don't go in to too much
detail here, wait until you get to the section below on 'The Vaccination Campaign'.
7.1 a Were they satisfactory? Why / why not? (record responses separately for each agricultural
service/activity)
7.2 Which groups are the most important for making decisions about development activities? ie if
someone wanted to start a new agricultural assistance project in your suco, which groups /
individuals should should they consult with? NB. If the Conselho do Suco is not mentioned, ask
why they shouldn't be involved:
7.3 Should women be included in these groups, or should they have separate groups to make
decisions and implement agricultural / natural resource management activities?
7.4 Which groups are most important in managing any financial assistance that the suco
receives? i.e. what would be the best way to get money to the suco and where would be the safest
place to keep it? If the Conselho do Suco is not mentioned, ask why they shouldn't be involved:
ANNEX B Interview Guide for Focus Group Discussions



7.5 Do they know the names of the DAO staff / what sectors are represented (DAO, livestock,
fisheries, food crops, forestry, irrigation) How often would they like the DAO staff come to the
suco?
7.6 What assistance do they feel they need to increase agricultural production / manage their
natural resources (don't limit discussion to material or financial assistance - prompt for training and
support).
7.7 a Who should provide this and how? (i.e. Field visits, demonstration plots, radio programs,
posters, leaflets, etc.)
7.8 Did they have PPL in the Suco in Indonesian times? What did they do? Were they useful to the
community?
7.9 Compared to Indonesian times, was there more or less information / services available in the
area of agricultural production?
7.9a How was it provided, by who?
7.9b Are the services / information better or not as good now compared to Indonesian times? Why /
why not?
ANNEX B Interview Guide for Focus Group Discussions



THE FOLLOWING QUESTIONS ARE FOR ARP 11 PILOT SUCO ONLY
8a. Can the group explain what the criteria for selection of Natural Resource
Management activities are? Prompt: What sort of activities can be funded? What sort of
activities cannot be funded?
8b. How did the group select the activity/activities they are currently implementing under
ARP 11? (Describe the process. Were there meetings? Who was involved? Who made the
final decision?).
8c. Were there other activities (besides the ones in the proposal) that the community
considered before making the final decision? If so, what were these?
8d. After the grant money was provided, what sort of support did they need to implement
the activities well? Prompt for things like training, information, assistance with
procurement, assistance with financial management, planning assistance etc.) Who should
provide this assistance? (The facilitators, the DAO staff, NGOs, other farmers?)
8e What are the attributes of a good facilitator?
- Is it important that there is a female facilitator in the suco? Why / why not? Be
sure to ask the views of women respondents.
8f. What is the best way the grant money for ARP 11 activities should be delivered and
managed by the suco to minimise the opportunity for misuse (KKN), and who should be
involved?
8g. Is it necessary to inform the whole community about the use of the grant money?
- If not, why not?
- If so, what is the best way to do this? Ask whether the suco has a noticeboard to
display financial information about the ARP 11 activity. If so, do they use it?
ANNEX B Interview Guide for Focus Group Discussions



QUESTIONS RELATING TO LIVESTOCK VACCINATION AND VILLAGE LIVESTOCK
WORKERS
Theme: What are female and male farmer's expectations for the vaccination campaigns. Can they
realistically be met by MAFF, and if not, how should expectations be tempered to encourage
continued vaccination coverage. Also, what are the perceptions of the VLW program?
1. Prepare a matrix on flip chart paper (see attached example) but do not fill in the headings
until you are ready to ask the questions relating to each particular column.
2. Explain to the community that we are now interested in talking about the vaccination
services provided by MAFF.
3. Ask them to estimate the total number of pigs, cattle, buffalo, and chickens. (If they don't
know, start with the total number of hh in the village (or aldeia if all respondents are from
one aldeia only). For each animal type, ask what proportion of hh have cows? In general,
how many cows do these households have? Repeat this for each animal type. Record on
the flip chart matrix.
4. Have vaccinators come to your suco to vaccinate your animals? If so, which types of
animals did they come to vaccinate and which types of animals have they not vaccinated
yet. Record the answer on the flip chart matrix.
5. If there has not been a vaccination service for some animal types, ask why not, and
whether they know when there will be?
6. If there has been no vaccination service at all yet, ask if they know why not, when
there will be, and if they want their animals to be vaccinated. Then proceed to
question 13.
7. For the animals that were vaccinated, when was the last time this was done? (by animal
type). Record on the flip chart matrix.
8. What proportion of each animal type was vaccinated? Record on the flip chart matrix.
a. Ask the community to briefly describe the process of the vaccination campaign,
starting from:
i. where they heard about it first (who from?)
ANNEX B Interview Guide for Focus Group Discussions



ii. what were they told to do? (count animals, prepare stalls, bring animals to
a certain place etc)
iii. Who was responsible for organizing the villagers to do it?
iv. Did everybody follow the instructions (in the community?) Why not?
v. What were the men responsible for, and what were the women
responsible for?
vi. Did the vaccinators do what they said they would do? (Prompt: were they
on time, at the right place, did they provide enough vaccinations for the
number of livestock etc)?
9. If not all the animals were vaccinated (refer to the answers for question 8 above), ask if
any one present did not vaccinate their animals. Ask these people what were the reasons.
If there were more than two reasons, after you have discussed them to make sure they
are valid reasons, common to most of those who did not have their animals vaccinated,
write them on cards and get them to place the cards in order of importance and record the
order of importance. Discuss each of the reasons and ask what % of the village (especially
among those not present has these problems /shares these beliefs.
Reasons for not vaccinating:-
b. Ask whether they will have their animals vaccinated next time? Why / why not?
ANNEX B Interview Guide for Focus Group Discussions



i. If not, is there anything MAFF could do to make it easier for you to
vaccinate your animals? Give examples.
10. For those who had their animals vaccinated, why did they do it?
a. Was it beneficial? Why (did it mean animals got sick less often?) / why not?
11. If any one claims (above) that their animals died as a result of the vaccination, add
a heading on the matrix for 'animals died' and try to record how many they think
died as a direct result, and then ask how long after the vaccination did the
animals die. (Record this in the matrix)
12. Ask whether those who had their animals vaccinated will do it again? Why/why
not? How many people feel this way? (Ask women about pigs and chickens, men
about cattle and buffalo if appropriate).
13. Explain that while vaccination services are free at the moment, MAFF may not be
able to to continue to provide these services for free in the future. Would the
community be prepared to pay a small amount of money for these services? Why?
- If not, does this mean they would rather not have their animals vaccinated if they
had to pay a small amount?
14.          Explain that now we want to talk about livestock health apart from vaccines. Ask if
anyone's livestock have got sick and died (or been killed before they died from the illness) in
the last year (2002), and briefly describe what they think they died from.
15.          If so, did the people who owned them do anything to get help? Who from? (ask
about traditional medicines or treatments as well)
a. If not, Why not?
b. Ask who they think should provide them with help? How much should it cost/how
should they be able to pay for this?
ANNEX B Interview Guide for Focus Group Discussions



16.          Have you heard about the Village Livestock Workers? (You don't need to ask this
if the VLW was already mentioned in Venn Diagram exercise). If they haven't heard about the
VLW program, record their response here, explain the VLW program, and go to question d.
below:
If they have heard about the VLW program, ask the following questions:-
a. Do you know who the VLW responsible for your village is / what is their name?
b. How would you contact your VLW if you needed them?
c. What sort of services do you think they will they provide?
d. Do you think you would call the VLW if your animals got sick? Why / why not?
e. If yes, how much do you think the services will cost?
f. Will you pay for the services you think will cost money? (If not, why not?)
g. Would you prefer to pay in money or in kind (pay by giving grain, chickens of
vegetables etc)
h. (If people do not want to pay at all) How will the VLW work if they don't get paid?
i. Do you think it is necessary to have a trained Livestock Worker available for your
suco? Why/why not?
ANNEX B Interview Guide for Focus Group Discussions



LIVESTOCK DATA MATRIX
Type of animal      Est. no. Vaccinated? Which year,  Estimated %  Estimated no.  How long after they were vaccinated did
in      Y/N         month        Vaccinated  died from     they die?
suco/                            2002        vaccination
aldeia                                       2002
CATTLE
BUFFALO
PIGS
CHICKENS
ANNEX B Interview Guide for Focus Group Discussions



ANNEX B Guidelines for the development of WUA case studies:
Name of Scheme_
The central themes to be explored by the case studies are as follows:
Are light-medium damaged larger schemes assisted under this component optimising their
irrigation source? If so, what are the factors supporting maximum optimisation? If not, what are the
factors preventing full optimisation, and how can the WUAs be assisted to overcome them.
What are women's roles in rice production, and do WUAs represent their interests?
The collection of data will be undertaken in two broad steps:
1. The collection of historical data from key informants (other than WUA members) and an
assessment of the current situation.
2. Focus group discussions with WUA members about their pre-1999 planting patterns, and
planting post- rehabilitation/construction of their schemes.
Section 1. The collection of historical data from key informants (other than WUA members) and an
assessment of the current situation.
Identification of key informants
The DIO should be able to provide historical information about the scheme and planting patterns
there in Indonesian times. If not, he should be able to help the team identify a key informant who:
- knows the scheme well
- held a formal position in the government in the irrigation sector or as a sub-district head
- was active in an NGO that had a program in the area
It is important that you interview at least 3 key informants to verify the data. (All historical
information will need to be verified with the WUA during the focus group discussions - particularly
relating to cropping pattems).
Each scheme will have a different history, and some aspects of their history will be more relevant
than others. It is up to the teams to decide how much information to collect as historical
background. The determining factor should be its relevance to current pattems of rice production.
Section 2. Focus group discussion with WUA members about their post-1999 planting patterns and
planting post- rehabilitation/construction of their schemes.
You will need to arrange this meeting before hand. If possible, as many of the board members of
the WUA should be present. Make sure at least 20 members are present, including female
members (if there are any). Make sure participants know the meeting will take between 4 - 5
hours.
Section 3 Water User Associations
This section focus on the history of WUAs in the area, as well as women's role within them. The
respondents are the same as for section 2 above.
ANNEX B Guidelines for the Development of WUA Case Studies



Section 1. The collection of historical data from key informants (other than WUA members) and an
assessment of the current situation.
1. What is the history of the paddy pre-1 999
- Who opened it up and constructed the first irrigation system. If these were different to the local
inhabitants, describe who they were and whether they are still there now. You may need to break
down the relevant time periods if the system has a history of usage by non-locals.
- How many suco have ownership rights to the paddy, and how far do they live from the land?
- Are there any disputes surrounding ownership of the paddy
- Was any new technology introduced by the Indonesian administration (demonstrations of fertiliser
or pesticide use, improved rice varieties etc).
- Were farmers organised into a WUA (P3A) in Indonesian times?
- Once the relevant time periods are determined, document their history of irrigation usage and rice
production. NB. If the system has only ever been utilised buy the local population, this
documentation should focus on the time period when the scheme was at it's largest. Remember,
keep the following discussion focused on pre-1999 under the Indonesian administration.
ANNEX B Guidelines for the Development of WUA Case Studies



1 a Focus on the total number of paddy for the wet season planting (specify month):
- that could be irrigated (potential)
- that was planted in rice (actual)
- describe the farming inputs used for land preparation (tractors, livestock, ploughs?), for growing
rice (fertilisers, pesticides etc - whether organic or chemical, and where/how did farmers purchase
them?),
- was any of this crop routinely sold, and if so, describe the marketing process (who, where, how?)
- if all the potential ha of irrigated land was planted in the wet season, what were the supporting
factors which allowed this? (include any NGO or government assistance that was provided at the
time)
- if all the potential ha of irrigated land was not planted in the wet season, what were some of the
factors preventing it?
1 b Focus on the total number of paddy for the dry season planting (specify month):
- that could be irrigated (potential)
- that was planted in rice (actual)
- describe the farming inputs used for land preparation (tractors, livestock, ploughs?), for growing
rice (fertilisers, pesticides etc - whether organic or chemical, and where/how did farmers purchase
them?),
- was any of this crop routinely sold, and if so, describe the marketing process (who, where, how?)
- if all the potential ha of irrigated land was planted in the dry season, what were the supporting
factors which allowed this? (include any NGO or government assistance that was provided at the
time)
- if all the potential ha of irrigated land was not planted in the dry season, what were some of the
factors preventing it?
ANNEX B Guidelines for the Development of WUA Case Studies



2. What is the situation now (post 1999?)
- Are the current owners of the paddy the same as pre-1999, if not describe who they are now.
- Confirm total number of households owning land in the scheme and whether all are actively
farming it or are working elsewhere.
- Determine when the irrigation works started and were completed
2a Briefly discuss how many hectares of paddy were cultivated in the planting periods from:
- wet season 1999/2000
- dry season 2000
- wet season 2000/2001
2b Focus on the total number of paddy for the wet season planting of 2001/2002 or 2002/2003:
- that could be irrigated (potential)
- that was planted in rice (actual)
- describe the farming inputs used for land preparation (tractors, livestock, ploughs?), for growing
rice (fertilisers, pesticides etc - whether organic or chemical, and where/how did farmers purchase
them),
- was any of this crop was sold, and if so, describe the marketing process (who, where, how, price)
- if all the potential ha of irrigated land was planted in the wet season, what were the supporting
factors which allowed this? (include any NGO, ASC or government assistance that was provided at
the time)
- if all the potential ha of irrigated land was not planted in the wet season, what were some of the
factors preventing it?
ANNEX B Guidelines for the Development of WUA Case Studies



2c Focus on the total number of paddy for the last dry season planting if the irrigation works were
completed in time for the 2002 dry season planting. If the system was only completed in time for
the 2003 dry season, the emphasis should be on what they think farmers will do next dry season:
- that could be irrigated (potential)
- that were/will be planted in rice (actual/potential)
- describe the farming inputs used for land preparation (tractors, livestock, ploughs?), for growing
rice (fertilisers, pesticides etc - whether organic or chemical, and where/how did farmers purchase
them),
- was any of this crop sold, and if so, describe the marketing process (who, where, how, and what
price)
- if all the potential ha of irrigated land was planted in the dry season, what were the supporting
factors which allowed this? (include any NGO, ASC or government assistance that was provided at
the time)
- if all the potential ha of irrigated land was not planted in the dry season, what were some of the
factors preventing it?
ANNEX B Guidelines for the Development of WUA Case Studies



Section 2. Focus group discussion with WUA members about their post-1999 planting
patterns and planting post- rehabilitation/construction of their schemes.
Number of male WUAs in the discussions    Number of female members_
Which board members were present
1. Confirm the historical data collected with key informants about the history of the scheme. Pay
particular attention to estimations of the numbers of ha planted in the wet and dry season pre 1999.
Refer to the key informant questions above regarding pre 1999 wet and dry season planting
patterns. You can use the same set of questions for confirmation. If the perception of the
community is different to that of the key informants, record the differences and compare the two
versions when you are writing up the case study. You will need to accommodate any differences in
the final version.
2 Briefly discuss how many hectares of paddy were cultivated in the planting periods from:
- wet season 1999/2000
- dry season 2000
- wet season 2000/2001
- dry season 2001
3. Verify the month of completion of the irrigation works:
3a Focus on the total number of paddy for the wet season planting of 2001/2002 or 2002/2003:
- that could be irrigated (potential)
- that was planted in rice (actual)
- describe the farming inputs used for land preparation (tractors, livestock, ploughs?), for growing
rice (fertilisers, pesticides etc - whether organic or chemical, and where/how did farmers purchase
them),
- was any of this crop was sold, and if so, describe the marketing process (who, where, how, price)
- If the area planted was much lower than the potential, what were the main reasons (verify with
key informant information).
ANNEX B Guidelines for the Development of WUA Case Studies



3b Focus on the total number of paddy for the last dry season planting if the irrigation works were
completed in time for the 2002 dry season planting. If the system was only completed in time for
the 2003 dry season, the emphasis should be on what farmer's think they will do next dry season:
Make sure that the respondents own paddy that can be irrigated in the dry season.
- How many families in total own paddy that can now be irrigated in the dry season?
What is the total number of paddy for the dry season planting:
- that can now be irrigated (potential)
- that was planted in rice (actual)
- describe the farming inputs used for land preparation (tractors, livestock, ploughs?), for growing
rice (fertilisers, pesticides etc - whether organic or chemical, and where/how did farmers purchase
them),
- was any of this crop was sold, and if so, describe the marketing process (who, where, how, price)
3c For the following, use a simple force-field analysis exercise (see attached)
- what were the supporting factors which supported rice growing? (include any NGO, ASC or
government assistance that was provided at the time)
- what were some of the factors hampering rice growing (be sure to cover issues of adequacy of
water, tractors, livestock, pests, problems with managing the water distribution, lack of seed, high
fuel costs etc?
3d List the problems and undertake a simple problem ranking exercise (see attached) to determine
what are the main impediments to rice growing. Together with the group, emphasise that there is
no more assistance for them planned by MAFF at the moment. With this in mind, ask what some of
the solutions could be. and who should be responsible for implementing them?
ANNEX B Guidelines for the Development of WUA Case Studies



ATTACHMENT 1
Force Field Analysis Exercise for dry season rice planting in medium - large schemes
Materials you will need: 3 large sheets of paper, 2-3 different coloured large felt pens, marking tape
of clips to fix the paper to the wall.
1. First identify those who own paddy that can be irrigated in the dry season.
2. Confirm with the group that there is a desire to plant twice.
3. On a large sheet of paper, draw a diagram with a picture of wet season planting on the left, with
a big arrow pointing to wet and dry season planting on the right (you should be creative with your
drawing!): Above the arrow, write 'negative factors preventing achievement of a second planting'.
Below the arrow, write 'positive factors contributing to achieving a second planting' as follows:
Negative factors preventing achievement of a second planting (-)
Wet season
planting
(buat
Wet season                                                    gambar)
planting
(buat
gambar)                                                       Dry season
planting
(buat
The situation now                                               gambar)
The situation we desire
Positive factors contributing to achieving a second planting (+)
4. Because there will not be enough room to write all the reasons the community provide, on two
separate sheets, write 'negative factors' and 'positive factors'.
5. Explain to the group that we want to look at all the positive and negative factors. Start with the
negative ones first. Make sure that you discuss them at length before writing them on the paper,
referring to initial information from key informants. Then look at the positive factors. You may need
to prompt the community to look at the resources, factors that they may take for granted.
ANNEX B Guidelines for the Development of WUA Case Studies



ATTACHMENT2
Simple problem ranking exercise
Materials you will need:
1 large sheet of paper, enough small sheets of paper (one for each problem), 2-3 different colored
large felt pens.
1. Summarize the main problems raised during the force field analysis exercise.
2. Draw a picture to represent each problem on the small pieces of paper (one per page).
3. On a large sheet, prepare a matrix (see below) and write the problems raised by the community
in the horizontal and vertical axis:
Pair-wise rankina
Example of Pair-wise Ranking of problems which hamper dry season rice planting
Not enough water
Not enough buffalo        B
No rice seed              RS       B
Not enough tractors      TR       TR       TR
Too many pests            PEST     B        RS        TR
Price too low             PRICE   B        RS         TR       PRICE
Fuel to expensive         FUEL     FUEL    FUEL       TR       FUEL     FUEL
Issues                    Not      Not     No rice    Not      Too      Price  Fuel to
enough   enough   seed      enough   many     too    expensive
water    buffalo            tractors  pests   low
4. Starting at the second box on the left, ask "which of these problems has the biggest impact on
hampering planting in the dry season, Not enough water or not enough buffalo" ? (Hold up the
small pieces of paper depicting buffalo and lack of water). Continue with the other items in the
column for 'Not enough water' then move the column for 'not enough buffalo until all the columns
are complete.
5. Count the number of times each item is listed, then put them in order according to their rank.
Score                                Ranking
Not enough water = 0                 1 Tractors
Not enough buffalo = 4               2 Fuel too expensive
No rice seed = 3                     3 Not enough buffalos
Not enough tractors 6                4 No rice seed
Too many pests = 1                   5 Price too low
Price too low =2                     6 Too many pests
Fuel to expensive = 5
6. Then, focusing on the problems with the three highest scores, remind participants that MAFF
does not have any money for this scheme at the moment, ask what can be done about them and
who should do it. Record their answers on the attached sheet.
ANNEX B Guidelines for the Development of WUA Case Studies



Problem and score ()       Problems in order of       What can be done to       Who should be              When should it happen?
priority (rank)            overcome it?              responsible for it?
ANNEX B Guidelines for the Development of WUA Case Studies



Section 3 Water User associations
1 History of WUAs
la Was there a WUA here in Indonesian times? If so, how did they manage the system and was it
effective. If not, how did they manage the system and was it effective?
1 b During this time, what was the role of the Indonesian Government (District and sub-district) in
helping you to distribute water?
1 c How many members does your WUA have (male/female?)
ld What activities has the group done so far in terms of water management and rice planting (is
there a documented seasonal calendar, distribution system, schedule of maintenance etc?)
1 e What are some of the problems you are facing working together in the WUA (related to
management of irrigation)?
1 f Do you think a WUG is the best way for your irrigation system to be managed or would you
prefer the government to manage your water for a fee?
1 g Thinking about the operation and maintenance required to keep the scheme functioning to the
maximum extent, can the group do all the necessary maintenance work itself? If not, who should
help them?
2 Women's roles in rice production and the WUA
2a Are both men and women's active in rice production (land preparation, irrigating, planting,
weeding, harvesting, marketing). Estimate the amount of labour contributed to each activity by both
women and men.
2b From the previous question about male/female membership, why aren't there as many female
members as there are males?
2c Should there be more women members? Why/not?
ANNEX B Guidelines for the Development of WUA Case Studies



QUESTIONS RELATED TO THE AGRICULTURAL SERVICES CENTRES (ASCS)
1. Is there an ASC in Viqueque/Maliana?
2. If so, how many of the group present are members?
3. What kind of services does it provide to farmers?
4. Has anyone from your suco ever used the services of the ASC?
5. Were the services useful? Why / Why not?
6. What sort of services would you like the Viqueque ASC to provide? Go back to some of the
problems the farmers are experiencing in rice production. Is there anything they think the
ASC could assist with?
ANNEX B Guidelines for the Development of WUA Case Studies



ANNEX C SUCO INSTITUTIONS SUMMARY
Individuals/Anstitutions     Frequency   Comments on role and frequency
considered within suco       mentioned
Chefe do Suco                13          Works with the Aldeias and community leaders (6)
Implements development activities (4)
Coordinates other groups such as OMT, OJT and Conselho do Suco (3)
He makes the programs for the aldeias (3)
He provides the suco with information from the District and gives advice to the community (3)
His role is not clear because he is only a temporary appointment. (2) If NGOs come here, they go straight the the Chefe
Aldeia. Only when his role is clarified by the sub-district head can we get on with development of the suco
He is responsible for all activities in the suco
Motivates the community to be active in all areas that will improve their lives in the suco
Chefe do Aldeia              13          He gives information from the Chefe do Suco to the community in the aldeia (4)
He waits for / implements instructions from the Chefe do Suco (4)
He works together with the Chefe do Suco (3)
He forms groups with the farming community (2)
So far he has not been cooperative as he has no program of work
Does not have good working relations with the Chefe do Suco
He is responsible for all activities within the aldeia
He brings the aspirations of the community to the Chefe do Suco
At the moment, they are more important than the Chefe do Suco
OMT                          11          Made a vegetable garden (5) Helped by Caritas (3), but they are no longer active because Caritas no longer supports
them (1) They couldn't sell the vegetables (1)
They are not active because they have no program or activity (4)
They formed a group to make Tais (woven cloth), (3) but couldn't sell it so are not active anymore (2)
Always works together as a group (of women)
Made a group to make eucalyptus oil to sell for $20 per bottle
Undertook suco clean-up
Every aldeia has its own group, but the board at the suco level are not active
Working together they formed a group to trial tree planting, seedlings and vegetable growing (ARP II)
OJT                          7           They are not active because they have no program or activity (4)
They are always willing to help the Chefe do Suco - for example, building/rehabilitating houses (2)
Although the group has already been formed, only a minority do anything (2)
Have done tree planting with seeds from the DFO
ANNEX C Suco Institutions Summary



Conselho do Suco             7           They consult with the community about what sort of programs they want, then make a proposal to take to CEP (3)
Have constructed a water supply system here (2) but still waiting for the money to come for 2km of pipe
So far, the community don't trust them as they are not very open and do not coordinate with the Chefe do Suco (2)
An example of mistrust is that they had money to buy 2.5 inch pipes in the proposal, but they only brought 1 inch pipes so
that to this day, the water does not flow properly
The farmers do not wish to follow their instructions
They don't have a role except for in CEP
They provided grants for us to plant cassava. We didn't know why we were suddenly being paid to plant cassava.
They provided credit for kiosks and cattle for fattening
Traditional leader           6           He gives his attention to community traditions and laws (3)
He determines what is forbidden in regards to farming activities (2) and determines the sanctions for those who break the
laws
Helps the relations between the government and the community (2)
He settles all conflict within the community
Coordinates with the government and the church
Works together with the Chefe do Suco/Aldeia to motivate the community to be active in development activities that will
improve their lives
Conselho do Katuas (Council of  5        They help to solve problems of traditional law within the suco (5)
Suco elders)                             They provide advice or recommendations if they are asked (4)
Consists of traditional leaders
They decide the things that are forbidden in farming abd have a ceremony ever year to inform the community
Farmer's group (local)       4           They have male and female members (2)
Since Portuguese times there have been farmer's groups here. The men till the land and the women plant
We don't really have any activities, except we work together to make fences around our gardens. For farming, we work
individually
We grow corn and cassava as a group, but sell the produce individually. We then contribute $2 to the group for other
activities, such as buying livestock
Still active because they are beneficial to the community, but the results are still in progress
Church / Religious leaders   3           Provides spiritual guidance (3)
Encourages people to go to church every week
Gives aftention to the laws of the church
Hlsttelthe people about government activities
Farmer's group (Small groups -  2        These groups consists of men and women. They are involved in fisheries and forestry activities (ARP 11 groups)
ARP 11)                                  They are in Ived in farming activities, like seedling production, as well as ARP 11 activities
A graduate of the farmer high  2         He did not ever give advice to the community and they did not ever go to him for advice (2)
school (SPP)
Suco government              2           They make long term programs for the suco (2)
ANNEX C Suco Institutions Summary



Make the decisions on behalf of the community
Anti-violence group           1          Provide information and advice about domestic violence issues
Valerio, Hipolito (have specialist  1    They never visit the community, and we never ask for advice from them
skills
Implementation Team (ARP)    1
Duarto do Costa (specialist in  1        Gives advice about how to breed fish. If people need this advice, he is always ready to help.
fisheries)                               People go to him is they need his advice
Fishing group                1           Fish together to catch fish for consumption and sale, but no-one want's to buy them so we barter instead for other goods,
especially corn, because this is a village close to the sea which is not good for growing corn (low rainfall)
We once got assistance from Timor Aid in the form of a boat
Community leader             1           There is no dependency on the government because the community try to do things for themselves, like till the land and
open irrigation canals
Credit Union                 1           They give credit to the group members to fulfil their basic needs. It was considered a success because they were open to
anyone who wanted to be involved
InstitutionsAlndividuals
considered outside the suco
CEP                          8           Built a water storage tank and pipes (3) but it was not enough for the whole community (2)
Waits for proposals from Conselho do Suco, then gives money (2)
Provided credit for kiosks. This activity is still ongoing
Provided credit for fishing equipment
Gave advice about how to manage the water supply system
Gave one plate of food to 100 households
Provided chairs for the suco inventory
Gave money directly to the Chefe do Suco to give to the community groups, not through the Conselho do Suco as most of
the community do not trust them
No longer active
District Livestock Officer   5           Gives vaccinations to prevent them getting sick (5)
Vaccinator                               Gives advice/information (3)
Collects data on animals for vaccination
Very useful for us
DAO/agriculture              4           Gives advice/information about farm management (3)
Forms working groups and made a demonstration garden (2)
He showed us a film about farming (2)
Showed us how to plant rice correctly
He showed us posters about farming topics
IOM                          4           Rehabilitated the suco office and grounds (2)
I No longer active here (2)
ANNEX C Suco Institutions Summary



Provided resources for repairing the irrigation canals, such as cement and wire baskets
They made a basketball court and toilets for the primary school
MAFF staff                   3           Still active but they rarely visit (2)
They have been here twice and given us advice about fisheries and forestry activities (ARP 11)
The community have been there twice but the staff did not come here
They gave assistance in the form of free hoes
Provide advice to farmers
Care international           3           No longer active here (2)
They built a water storage tank and rehabilitated the school using community labour
Caritas                      3           Provided vegetable seeds to the OMT group (3)
No longer active here (2)
Provided chickens to widows, this was around 2000. there is a big possibility all these chickens are dead now
GM / German NGO              3           They gave 30kg of rice to 65 households
Helped us to rebuild the suco's main road
Provided resources to repair the irrigation canals, and the community provided the labour
Provided resources for flood prevention
No longer active here
NGO Australia                2           Gave advice about managing water supply
Built a water storage tank and pipes
Did a surve here about water supply (1 year ago) but never came back
UNICEF                       2           No longer active here (2)
World Bank                   2           They once gave assistance in the form of kitchen utensils, chairs and tables etc
They are no longer active
Oxfam                        2           Built a water supply system for the school (2)
Provide advice to the community in the area of sanitation
Timor Aid                    2           Provided materials to the community directly to repair their houses
Provided a boat and fishing equipment to the fishing group
Undefined NGO                2           Formed farmers groups, planted corn and saplings, such as teak and sandalwood
Distributed pigs, but wanted us to keep them all in one communal pen. We didn't agree with this and all the pigs died
Concern                      1           They made a toilet block and provided a water supply to the primary school
Livestock officer from Dili  1           Gave chickens to five groups - 50 per group. Some are still alive but some are dead due to illness
Rarely gives us any advice
ARP                          1
World Food Program           1           They divided corn flour and cooking oil amongst the community
They gave us food and chickens
ANNEX C Suco Institutions Summary



ANNEX D RESULTS OF THE COMMUNITY INTERVIEWS - Pilot suco
Name of suco          Ogues               Clacuk               Osso-Ala             Kakaven
Subdistrict           Suai Kota           Fatuberiu            Vemasse              Lospalos
District              Covalima            Manufahi             Baucau               Lautem
Pilot suco (Y/N)      Yes                 Yes                  Yes                  Yes
No of respondents     M 35      W 18      M. 1       W 1o       M 12        W 3     M 21     W1o
Services/Information  Vaccination of      Provided             We have had forestry  Information on
received             livestock only       advice/information on  and pig vaccination  agriculture,
farming issues       pamphlets from       vaccination, garden
MAFF                demonstration (ARP
II?)
Level of satisfaction  Not satisfied      Feel satisfied because  Only a few felt   Not satisfied
with services         because there has   the facilitator      satisfied because    because there was
not yet been a      implemented the      they could implement  not enough
program in our suco  farming activities well  what was in the  information, technical
from the PPL                              pamphlet. Most felt  demonstration or
unsatisfied because  practical application,
the information      We would like the
wasn't enough and    DAO people to come
they still needed    here more often
more
Knowledge of DAO      Forestry            Agriculture and       Fisheres            Pak Valero, Pak
sectors               Livestock           Livestock. Forestry,  Forestry            Almedia and the
Aghculture (DAO)    irrgation and food    And the ARP         facilitator Mario
Irrgation           crops don't have     facilitator. Would like  (didn't specify which
Food crops          representatives. We   them to visit twice a  divisions they were
would like them to.  week                 from)
Groups/Individuals   Implementation       Chefe do Suco         Most are important in  All groups, such as
most important in     Team. The Chefe do  together with the    decision making.     the Conselho do
development           Suco and Conselho   Conselho do Suco.     Maybe the Conselho  Katuas, Chefe do
decision making       do suco are not     The Conselho only     do Katuas more so.  Suco, Chefe Aldeia,
(should be involved  involved. They only  knows about the       The Chefe do Suco,  OJT and OMT are
in an new             know about          important letters and  OJT and OMT are all  important to decision
agricultural activity)  important forms such  receipts that are the  important. The  making. The
as receipts from     responsibility of the  Conselho do Suco  Conselho do Suco
procurement.        groups. The groups    should not be       should not be
don't trust (believe in)  involved because  involved because
the Conselho do Suco  they are especially  they are only
for CEP              involved in the
projects from CEP
Best method of        Should be straight to  Should be stored by  Best from BNU to  Best to give money
managing financial    Implementation      the Implementation    MAFF to             straight to the OMT
assistance            Team. The Chefe do  Team. The Conselho    Implementation      because women are
Suco and Conselho   do Suco is not        Team then to the    cleverer at managing
do Suco should only  sufficiently         Treasurer of the    money. For a new
be informed about it  transparenVopen to  small groups. A     project, best to
and it's expenditure.  the community      minorty felt that the  establish a new team
Implementation                            Conselho do suco    or farmers group.
Team gives it straight                    was approprate      The Conselho do
to sub-groups.                            because they are    suco should not be
close to the Worfd  involved because
Bank and can get the  some times they are
money direct. Others  not responsible so
though they should  that the community
start a new group (for  don't trust them
an imagined new
activity)
ANNEX D Results of the Community Interviews - Pilot Suco



Name of suco          Ogues               Clacuk               Osso-Ala             Kakaven
Need for separate     Yes, women have a   Women have a         Yes, women should    Women are involved
women s groups        separate group but  separate group        be involved in      in decision making
they needed          already, but they can  decision making, and  and are members of
assistance from men  work together with  it should be up to   groups. They have
to do the land       men as well.        them whether they    the nght and are
preparation for their                     want a separate     emancipated.
group garden.                             group or not
Assistance farmers    Training            Seeds, fertiliser,    Not only money, but  We need supporting
feel they need        Poster making       sprayers              we need information  information, training
More seeds, such as  Provide training about  and training -   and advice
Teak (Philippines)   managing farm land   particularly with
Hand sprayers       as well as other      practical application
natural resources    of new techniques
that will improve our
agricultural
production
Preferred method of   Should be straight  Until now, only the  This should be       This should be
delivery             from the DAO staff   agricultural facilitator  provided by MAFF  provided by MAFF
(face-to-face)      provides posters /    using media such as  through field visits,
pictures about the   radio, posters,      demonstrations
farming sector. Radio  pamphlets and      posters and
is a difficult media for  handouts        pamphlets
us to access.
Presence of PPL pre   Yes. He introduced  Yes. He made a       Yes. He made a       There was a PPL.
99 and perception of  cashew, jackfruit and  demonstration      demonstration       He did monitorng,
usefulness            kapok trees in a    garden, provided     garden that was      gave training about
demonstration plot.  farming posters and  useful even though  planting techniques
We are still getting  showed us films about  one of two varieties  and provided
the benefits of these.  farming activities. All  did not grow well  information. He was
Very useful for the  of these activities                      not very useful
community.          were very useful to                       because there was
the community                             no practical
demonstration
Level of information  More in Indonesian  It was better in     There was more       More available in
available compared   times because there  Indonesian times. All  information available  Indonesian times,
to Indonesian times   was a PPL in every  farming equipment    in Indonesian times,  from the army and
and thoughts of       suco complete with  was provided by the   but less            agriculture, such as
quality of service   farming equipment.   PPL. Now there is no  implementation. They  demonstration
Because we are a    PPL and the means of  used a variety of   gardens, talks and
new country, this   providing information  media, including field  films. But it is still
service isn't       are less.             visits, posters, films.  better now because
established yet.                          Now, even though    we get to enjoy the
There is also a                           there is less       benefits directly
shortage of                               information, at least  (ARP II?)
information                              there is
infrastructure.                           implementation (ARP
II?)
Knowledge of NRM      Form a group,       -You have to have    There must be a      The criteria includes
activity selection    coordinate the group,  specialist knowledge  need, it must be  the needs of the
criteria             look after the       to select an activity to  feasible (have  suco, the soil type,
seedlings and check  manage natural       potential to succeed),  community
on the activities of  resources.          must be enough      participation and
the group.                                funding. Something  funding availability.
like a road will not be  You can not get
funded.              funding for Tara
Bandu
ANNEX D Results of the Community Interviews - Pilot Suco



Name of suco         Ogues               Clacuk               Osso-Ala            Kakaven
Process of selecting  Formed a farmers   The farmer groups,   There was a meeting  This was done
activities           group, had a meeting  the Conselho do suco,  of all the community  through a meeting
with the DAO and   the Chefe do Suco     and organizations   with the whole
farming facilitator,  and Chefe Aldeia  from the suco and we  community and the
and the final decision  were involved in the  chose the most  groups
was made by the     process of selecting  feasible activity. The
Chefe do Suco.      the activity.        final decision was
made by the
community through
discussion
Other non-funding    We have already had  We need assistance  We need technical   We need support in
support groups       training in funds   with procurement (like  training, and more  training, advice, and
require              management and      that provided by    importantly,         management
how to do the       NGOs)                management         training. MAFF
farming activities                      training. MAFF      should provide this
should provide this  as well as
as well as agricultural  agricultural NGOs
NGOs
Characteristics of a  It doesn't matter if  It doesn't matter if  A good facilitator  Prepared to live in
good facilitator and  they are a man or a  they are a man or a  would stay in the  the suco, have skills
preference for female  woman. What is    woman because they  suco, be honest and  in farming, takes
facilitators         important is that they  have the same rights  hardworking and  initiative
can coordinate /    (to this sort of work).  have good farming  hardworking, honest
have skills in farming  What is important is  skills. One could be a  and responsible. It is
so they can        that they have farming  woman, as long as  better if one is a
implement activities  skills.           she has skills in   woman because she
in the suco.                            agriculture         can work with the
women s group
Preferred method of  Straight to the     You need control and  Should work together  Straight to the
funds transfer to    Treasurer and       transparency so that  with the           Implementation team
suco                 Secretary of the    money is not wrongly  organizations that  who gives it to the
Implementation      used. You also need  exist, i.e.        small groups. All the
Team               to have very clear    Implementation team  groups should be
reporting           to sub-groups to    involved.
community. The
Chefe do suco
should also be
involved
Necessity of         Need to keep        Yes, you need to be  Need to inform the  Yes, it is very
informing community  community informed  very transparent so  community so that  important so that
about funds use      so they know about  people do not start to  corruption is   there is no suspicion
use of the funds    doubt one another   minimised           of the facilitator or
the groups
Preferred/actual     We have a notice    At the moment, we    Best way is every  The best method is
method               board where we      don't have a notice  time there are     what we do now. We
display financial and  board for ARP II  purchases, the     have a notice board
other information   money, so for the   receipts and all    to display information
about the activities  moment we provide  expenditure should  about activities. All
information directly to  be reported to the  receipts are posted.
the community        groups. (There is no  For those that can't
notice board in use)  read, we inform them
though a meeting
Vaccination services  Cattle*100% NovO2  Cattle* 100% NovO2   Pigs 10% SeptO2     Cattle 20%  Sept02
provided and         Buffalo 100% Nov 02  Buffalo 100% Nov02  No information yet  Buffalo 30% Sept 02
estimated % of       Pigs 100% Nov02     Pigs   100% Nov02    about cattle and    Pigs 5%    Nov02
coverage and date    Chickens 100% Nov   Chickens 100% Nov    chickens
*Only those tied up  *Only those tied up
Numbers thought to   None                None                 None                None
have died as a result
and time lapse
ANNEX D Results of the Community Interviews - Pilot Suco



Name of suco         Ogues               Clacuk               Osso-Ala            Kakaven
Brief description of  Heard about it     Heard about the      The information    The community were
process of           through the Chefe do  vaccination campaign  came from MAFF via  informed by the
vaccination          Suco, he heard from  from the vaccinator.  the Chefe do suco. It  Chefe do Suco and
the vaccinators. The  They were          was then publicised  Aldeia. The
Chefe Aldeia and    responsible for     through the church.  vaccinators didn't
community groups    organising the      The vaccinators did  ask us to do anything
were responsible for  community, who were  door-to-door     - just went from
organising the event  willing to do what was  vaccinations. There  house-to-house. Men
and people generally  required. Men are  was only one       are involved in
did what they were  responsible for     vaccinator. He came  Cattle, buffalo and
supposed to. Men    vaccinating cows and  according to       pig vaccinations.
were responsible for  buffalo, women for  schedule          Women could be
cows and buffalo and  pigs and chickens.                    involved in chicken
women were          The vaccinators came                    vaccinations if they
responsible for pigs  on time depending on                  are capable. The
and chickens.      the amount of animals                    vaccinators cane on
Whether vaccinators  to be vaccinated                       time according to
were on time or not                                         their schedule. There
depended on where                                           was only one
the houses were                                             vaccinator. We don't
located and their own                                       know if he had
transport situation.                                        sufficient vaccine for
They vaccinated at                                          all the animals.
individual houses
because we didn't
prepare a corral.  .
Reasons why some     Lack of exact       Lack of exact        Community do not   The vaccinator did
people don't         information from the  information from the  understand about  not provide any
vaccinate            vaccinators         vaccinators          vaccinations. There  information to the
Communication       Communication       was no meeting      community before
difficult           difficult            between the        vaccinations took
If animals are sick  If animals are sick  vaccinator and the  place, so many were
already, they will die  already, they will die  community before  scared to try it.
anyway if you       anyway if you        hand, so they weren't
vaccinate them.     vaccinate them.      sure
Willingness to       People who didn't   People who didn't    More people will    More people will
vaccinate next time  vaccinate will do so if  vaccinate will do so if  vaccinate next time  vaccinate next time
there is clear      their animals are in                    to guard against
information (there is  good health. They                    disease - as long as
no reason not to do  also want to wait and                  there is information
so)                 see what happens to                      provided before hand
those who were                          so that people
vaccinated                               understand
Perceived benefits of  So that animals don't  So that animals don't  To reduce the  To guard against
vaccinating          get sick            get sick. Vaccination  incidence of illness in  disease. It is very
is really useful for  animals. It is a very  useful because
preventing illness.  useful service      animals don't get
Prevention is better                    sick as often
than cure.
Perceived link       It depends on the   Animals that die from  None articulated  None articulated
between              health of the animal.  vaccination do so
vaccinations and     If they are already  because they were
animal deaths        sick before being   already sick before
vaccinated, they will  hand, so it depends
die anyway.         on the health of the
animal
ANNEX D Results of the Community Interviews - Pilot Suco



Name of suco         Ogues               Clacuk               Osso-Ala            Kakaven
Willingness to pay   We are prepared to  Yes, we are prepared  We are prepared to  People will pay for
for vaccinations in.  pay because       to pay depending on   pay as long as it is  vaccinations as long
future               vaccination is      what the vaccinator  within our means. If it  as the government
important to us     asks for. All people  is too expensive, it is  can guarantee a
need to protect the  better if the animal  market for their
health of this animals  dies             produce, so that they
have an income
Usual response to    Many people use     If the vaccinator    Some iook for       We asked for help
animal illness       traditional medicines  doesn't come      traditional medicine  from MAFF staff
(did not specify)   because he has not  close to the suco (did  (DLO) but they didn't
been contacted, we   not specify)       come so we let the
are forced to use                        animals die
traditional medicine
(did not specify)
Knowledge of VLW     Heard of the program  Don't know. No     Not heard about the  Had not heard about
program and          but it has not started  information yet  VLW program        the VLW program
selection of VLWs    here. Services will
include medicine,
needles and other
instruments for
treatment (this
community may have
confused the VLW
program with
vaccination services)
Likelihood of calling  Probably not. If an  Yes, we would call  Yes               Yes, if there was
such a person to     animal is already   them if we needed                        such a person
treat a sick animal  sick, it will die   them
anyway.
How much might it     Don't know. We     Don't know. It would  That depends on the  Don't know how
cost and would you   would pay for it    depend on how much   VLW. As long as it is  much these services
pay?                 depending on how    the VLW asked for    within our means, we  would cost, but we
much the vaccinator  and whether we could  would pay it     wouldn't pay if we
asked for           afford it                               don't have an
income
Would payment be     Not really. It would  This would depend on  Depends on       This would depend
easier if it was in the  depend on the   the VLW              negotiations with the  on the VLW
form of goods        vaccinator. Doesn't                      VLW
exchange             really matter if its
money or goods
Is there a need for a  Yes we need a     Yes, we very much    Yes, because we are  Yes, because we
trained livestock    livestock worker in  need this type of   a long way from the  could contact them
worker in your suco?  the suco to improve  person to safeguard  town so they need  quickly in an
coordination        our animals         someone close at     emergency
hand to provide
services when they
are required
Is this a suitable job  Yes, especially for  Yes, especially for  Yes, as long as they  Yes, as long as they
for a woman?         vaccinating pigs and  pigs and chickens  feel capable and    had the skills
chickens                                 have the skills
ANNEX 0 Results of the Community Interviews - Pilot Suco



RESULTS OF THE COMMUNITY INTERVIEWS - Non Pilot suco
Name of suco          Ostico              Bemoris               Betano              Lela                 Loedahar
Subdistrict           Vemasse             Los Palos             Manufahi            Maukatar             Liquisa
District              Baucau              Lautem               Manufahi             Covalima            Liquisa
Pilot suco (Y/N)      No                  No                   No                   No                  No
No of respondents     M 9   W 1           M22       W-          M 18    W 14        M 32      W26        M1o       W5
Services/Information  Only information we  Have not received any  There has been    The DAO has          No information or
received              have received has   information from     information and      provided information  campaigns yet.
been from the       MAFF or DAO. There    advice from the DAO  and advice to the   Only vaccination
Pastor, not MAFF.   was some pesticide    since the emergency  suco through direct
Vaccination service  distributed by MAFF  penod.              visits
Level of satisfaction  Not satisfied      Not satisfied because  People were very   People were
with services         because there is not  they have not been  satisfied because the  satisfied
yet clear and       visited by staff and  agrcultural facilitator
complete information  they have not       came and visited us
received any         directly
information
Knowledge of DAO      Livestock only      Know Valeno and      Forestry             Forestry            Livestock
sectors                                   Almedia, but do not   Livestock           Livestock            Fisheres
know which sectors   Agriculture          Agrculture          Forestry (but only
they are from. We'd  Need to add more     Irrgation           the Chefe Aldeia
like them to visit twice  staff           Food Crops          knew for sure
a week
Groups/Andividuals    Most important in   All groups are       The Chefe do Suco    The Chefe do Suco    The Chefe do Suco,
most important in     decision making are  important and should  decides the activities  decides the program  through the
development           Conselho do Katuas,  be consulted in     and passes them on   and passes this on to  Conselho do Suco.
decision making       Chefe do Suco,      decision making,      to the Aldeias who  the Aldeia. There is  They know the
(should be involved   Aldeia, the Church,  particularly Conselho  pass them on to the  no Conselho do    aspirations of the
in an new             OJT through their   do Katuas, Chefe do   community. The      Suco active here.    people. But if it's a
agricultural activity)  various groups.    Suco and Aldeia.     Conselho do suco                         new activity, better
Conselho do Suco is  Conselho do Suco is  here is not yet active                   to go straight to the
(Prompt for           not involved because  like an adviser. They                                        Chefe do Suco and
Conselho do Suco)    they are only        are not in the aldeia,                                         then the farmers
involved in CEP      but could be involved.                                        group.
activities
Best method of        Best through the    Best to do it through  We haven't yet had  Only the Chefe do  The Chefe do Suco
managing financial    Chefe do Suco or the  the Chefe do Suco, or  assistance in the  Suco is trusted by  is most trusted. Or
assistance            existing suco       form a new group to  form of money, so we  the community for   start a new group
structure. Probably  manage funds.        haven't had to store  this sort of role. We  special for the
need to create a new  Should not involve the  any and don't know  have heard about the  activity. The
(Prompt for           team to manage      Conselho do Suco      what would be the   Conselfo do suco     Treasurer Conselho
Conselho do Suco)     money. The          because they are only  best method. We    since long ago, but  do Suco is just for
Conselho do Suco is  advisors and aren't in  would have to    until now, there is not  CEP money
only responsible for  the aldeia.         discuss it in more  one established
CEP, so they                              detail              here.
shouldn't be involved
in a new activity
Need for separate     Don't really know   Yes, women should    There is already a   Women have a         Yes, women should
women's groups                            be involved in making  women's group here.  separate group, but  be involved. They
decisions and        They plant com and   they usually do     already have a
implementing         vegetables.          agricultural activities  separate group
agricultural activities                   together with men   although it is not
active.
Assistance farmers    We need equipment   We need training,    Training, farming    Training, pesticide  Teak seeds,
feel they need       like tractors, training  advice, courses, a  tools, pesticide, more  and sprayers,  technical training so
for farmers groups, a  demonstration      PPL assistance      farming tools, tree  we can grow teak
technical trainer from  garden, and books or                  seedlings such as    better, and look
agriculture, advice  posters about                            teak and Phillipines  after our animals
and information     agricultural topics                       teak                 better, training in
ANNEX D Results of the Community Interviews - non-Pilot Suco



Name of suco         Ostico               Bemoris              Betano              Lela                Loedahar
post-harvest
production for
women
Preferred method of  MAFF should provide  MAFF should provide  The agricultural    So far, the team from  Direct training and
delivery             this through routine  this through field visits  facilitator should give  the DAO have  advice. We are
visits to the suco,  and demonstrations or  advice and training in  provided good  happy to get
demonstrations and  posters              how to manage our   information about    assistance from
books about farming                      farmlands           how to farm         whatever sources
techniques                                                                       are available
Presence of PPL pre  Yes, they showed us  Yes there was, but he  Yes. They gave    Yes, he showed us   Yes, he brought
99 and perception of  how to grow paddy   didn't do anything so  advice to farmers  how to plant green  snake fruit,
usefulness           gogo (dry land rice),  the community did not  and formed a farmers  vegetables and  rambutan and
and we felt they were  feel he was useful  group with a      formed a farmer's    mango trees here
really useful because                    satisfactory outcome  group. The result  and we are still
they made a                                                  was to add value to  getting the benefits
demonstration plot,                                          what they grew       of these. We would
although they did not                                                             like MAFF to
meet all expectations                                                             increase the
number of these
trees here
Level of information  More information in  A little bit more in  It was better in  It was better in    There was more in
available compared   Indonesian times, but  Indonesian times,  Indonesian times    Indonesian times    Indonesian times
to Indonesian times   not much           from the agricultural  compared to now.   than independence.  from agriculture and
and thoughts of      implementation. Now  department. It's better  East Timor is still a  East Timor is just a  PPL, but it is good
quality of service   we only get it through  now because there  new country, so there  new country, so  that you have come
the Pastor. It is too  are practical     aren't yet enough   there are not a lot of  to talk to us about
difficult to compare  demonstrations     PPLs to create      PPL or activities in  farming
quality.            (although this aldeia  activities with   the suco
has not had any direct  farmers. Not enough
visits from MAFF yet)  manpower and
facilities
Vaccination services  Cattle  Nov 02      Buffalo              Cattle* 100% Nov 02  Cattlel100% Nov 02  Cattle 100% Nov 02
provided and          Buffalo  Nov 02     Pigs       May 02    Buffalo 100% Nov 02  Buffalo 100% Nov 02  Pigs 100% Nov02
estimated % of        Pigs    Aug 02     (could not estimate %)  Pigs  100% Nov02  Pigs  100% Nov02
coverage and date    (could not estimate                       Chickens 100% Nov   Chickens 100% Nov
%)                                       *Only those tied up  *Only those tied up
Numbers thought to    None                None                 None                None                None
have died as a result
and time lapse
Brief description of  Initial information  There was no prior  Community heard     We heard about it   We heard about the
process of           about the vaccination  information. The  from Chefe do Suco   from the village    campaign on the
vaccination          campaign came from   vaccinators just    (who heard from      office, via the     radio, and a
MAFF and was        arrived and went from  vaccinator). We were  vaccinators. They  vaccinator came
publicised through  house-to-house.      told to prepare a   came and gave the    here directly to
the church. The                          corral to use for   vaccinations door-to-  count the number of
vaccinators came                         vaccinating the     door because we      animals in every
withpough first                          animals because we  don't yet have a     house. The Chefe
counting the animals,                    didn't have one     place to vaccinate.  aldeia was
and just wwent from                      already. The Chefe  The Chefe Aldeia    responsible for
house-to-house. The                      Aldeia was          was responsible for  organising the
came when they said                      responsible for     organising the       community. Men
they would and had                       organising the      community. People    were more involved.
enough vaccine to                        community. People   did what they were   Women less so but
cover all that wanted                    were willing to     told to do. Men are  they could help.
their animals                            comply. Men and     responsible for      The vaccinators
vaccinated. A lot of                     women have the      catching cattle and  came when they
people did not                           same role, only men  buffalo. Whether the  said they would
participate because                      look after cattle and  vaccinators came on
there was no                             buffalo. Whether the  time depended on
information given                        vaccinators came on  their mode of
ANNEX D Results of the Community Interviews - non-Pilot Suco



Name of suco          Ostico              Bemoris               Betano              Lela                 Loedahar
beforehand, so the                        time depended on    transportation.
community were                           them.
doubtful and not
prepared to have
their animals
vaccinated. Women
should be involved in
vaccination, as long
as they are capable
and interested.
Reasons why some      No information pror  Information was not  Not enough          No reliable
people don't         to the campaign.     clear or the         transportation for the  communication
vaccinate             Because of this,    vaccinators could not  vaccinators and not  method, transport for
people were scared  get to their houses   enough vaccinators.  the vaccinators is
their animals would                       Not clear           unreliable, if the
die if they were                          communication       animals are already
vaccinated                                between the         sick they will die
vaccinator and the   anyway
owners of livestock
Willingness to        More people would   Yes, to prevent       Yes. People agree   We agree with        Yes, we need
vaccinate next time   vaccinate next time if  disease. Most people  with vaccinating.  vaccinations      vaccination
there was good      agree with this       There is no reason to
information provided                      refuse this service.
before hand
Perceived benefits of  Prevent animal     It prevents disease  It prevents animal  It prevents animals   People hope that if
vaccinating           deaths from disease.  which is useful     diseases. Very useful  from getting sick, so  their animal is sick
Very useful because  because animals are  for prevention      it is very important  and gets vaccinated
animals are rarely  sick less often                                               it will get better.
sick if they are                                                                   Vaccination
vaccinated                                                                         reduces illness in
livestock
Perceived link        While it is suspected,  None articulated  Animals die after   Animals die after    Some animals died
between              this is only because                      vaccination if they  vaccination if they  that were already
vaccinations and      of lack of information,                   are already sick. It  are already sick. It  sick, but we know it
animal deaths         not actual confirmed                      depends on their    depends on their     was not because of
deaths                                    condition           condition            the vaccination
Willingness to pay    This would depend   Those prepared to    In order to ensure   The community are    Some people might
for vaccinations in   on whether the      pay will pay, but if it is  our animal's health,  willing to pay in order  but maybe most
future                govemment held      too expensive, it is  we are willing to pay  to improve the health  would not. Better to
discussions /       better to let the     the fee the         of their animals    let the animals die.
socialisation with the  animals die       vaccinators set
community first
Usual response to     We try to get help  We don't usually do  We are forced to rely  We are forced to rely  We try salt and
animal illness       from MAFF            anything. It's better if  on traditional  on traditional      water from boiled
they just die.       medicine (would not  medicine (would not  leaves like papaya
specify type - this  specify type - this  for pigs, then we kill
information is not   information is not  them if they don't
shared within a      shared within a     get better
community)           community)
Knowledge of VLW      Have not heard of   Haven't heard about  Haven't heard about  Haven't heard about  Don't know about
program and          this program         the program          the program - no     the program - no     this. There hasn't
selection of VLWs                                              information          information          been any
information yet
Likelihood of calling  We would call them if  Yes, we would call  If we needed to   Yes, we'd call them if  Yes, we would call
such a person to     there was such a     them if there was a                       we needed to        them
treat a sick animal   person              VLW
ANNEX D Results of the Community Interviews - non-Pilot Suco



Name of suco         Ostico              Bemoris              Betano              Lela                Loedahar
How much might it    This would depend   Don't know how much  Should be voluntary,  The cost would   Don't know how
cost and would you   on the government.  it would cost. We    or depends on the   depend on how      much it would cost,
pay?                 They should set the  would pay if we had  VLW. Whether we    much the VLW       but it would depend
prce. We would pay  any money.          would pay would     asked for. Whether  on how much they
it it wasn't too                        depend on the VLW   we would pay would  asked for and
expensive, i.e.                         and the owner of the  be up to the owner  people's ability to
according to our                        animal              and the VLW         pay
ability
Would payment be     This would depend   This would depend on  This would depend  That would depend  That would depend
easier if it was in the  on negotiations with  negotiations with the  on both parties  on both parties  on the VLW
form of goods        the VLW             VLW
exchange
Is there a need for a  Yes, and we would  Yes, we need one    Yes, a great need   Yes, a great need  Yes, we need this
trained livestock    prefer it if they were                                                          type of person to
worker in your suco?  a person from our                                                               help us look after
own suco                                                                        our animals better
Is this a suitable job  Yes, as long as they  Yes, if they have the  Very suitable. Both  Yery suitable,  Yes
for a woman?         have the skills     expertise            women and men       because women
have a rght to do this  have the rght and
sort of work        responsibility the
same as men
ANNEX D Results of the Community Interviews - non-Pilot Suco



ANNEX D RESULTS OF THE COMMUNITY INTERVIEWS - Non Pilot suco (Continued)
Name of suco          Bobokasi                 Bobometo                 Nipani                   Naimeco
Subdistrict           Pantai Makasar           Oesilo                   Oecussi                  Pantai Makasar
District              Oecussi                  Oecussi                  Oecussi                  Oecussi
Pilot suco (YIN)      No                       No                       No                       No
No of respondents     M 17     W 3             M 19       W5            M 30       W 10          M 33       W1o
Services/lnformation  Vaccination, Re-greening  We were given Candlenut  So far we have received  From forestry, we were
received             the school (forestry),    and mahogany trees as    advice/lectures from the  told not to destroy the
distnbution of buffalo,  well as some training in  agricultural office and corn  forests, not to bum off and
heard about the ban on   how to plant and look after  seeds. Also vaccinations  not to cut down trees that
cutting sandalwood trees,  them. Also vaccination.                         were illegal. They also
burning forests and      There is information on the                       gave trees to the schools
promoting reforestation on  radio but people can't                        for re-greening.
the radio                make use of it. Prefer to                         From Livestock, there was
listen to music.                                  vaccinations
Level of satisfaction  We don't know about     Some of the trees have   People were not satisfied  People are unsatisfied
with services         mahogany trees and       died because of the      with the com that was    with the vaccinations
trambisi, so we wanted   drought but some are still  distributed because it all  because not all the pigs
training in how to grow  alive. Radio is not very  died because of the     were vaccinated and most
them properly and get    useful. We need to be    drought ey want seed that  of them died. They were
seeds from them to plant  shown how to do things  can be stored for up to  satisfied with the forestry
in future. We hear things                         three years so they can  activities but wanted more
on the radio but can't do it.                     replant if it dies.      so they could plant shade
Would prefer to hear                                                       trees for coffeeon unused
music on the radio                                                        land
Knowledge of DAO      Livestock                Livestock and Forestry are  Fisheries             Livestock
sectors               Forestry                the only ones that come   Livestock                Forestry
Irrigation               here. Also know about    Forestry                 Agriculture (DAO)
Fisheres                 Fisheres and Irrigation but  Agriculture (DAO)    They often come here
Food crops. Only livestock  they never come here.
comes here. The others
we know because they are
local
Groups/Individuals    The Chefe do Suco and    Because the role of the  All the community and the  The Chefe do Suco should
most important in     Aldeia should invite people  Chefe do Suco is not clear  organizations here should  be the first point of contact
development           from all groups to discuss  here, it is better to go  meet and discuss the best  because he is trusted to
decision making       a new activity. The      straight to the Chefe do  group to make decisions  decide who should be
(should be involved   Conselho do suco are     Aldeias and the traditional  about a new activity. All  involved. The Conselho do
in developing a new  involved in CEP only.     leaders. They would sit  except for the Conselho  Suco should not be
agricultural activity)  NGOs don't bother with  together with the       do Suco and they are only  involved. So far, they
them but they could be   community to discuss the  involved in CEP.        have been very closed
(Prompt for          involved. We just haven't  best way to implement a                          and are only involved in
Conselho do Suco)    tried                     new activity. The conselho                        CEP activities.
do suco is not yet
cohesive. We haven't
used them for anything but
CEP, but it is possible they
could be used
Best method of        Money should go through  We would have to have a  The Chefe do Suco is the  The Chefe do Suco would
managing financial   the Chefe do Suco to the  full community meeting to  best person. The       be most trusted, and
assistance            Chefe do Aldeias, and    choose a person we all   Conselho do Suco should  following him, the Chefe
then to the community, as  trusted. It is better to  not be involved because  Aldeia and the suco board
long as there was a      choose a new group then  they only function if there  (not explained).
(Prompt for           community discussion     use the conselho do suco.  is assistance from CEP.  The Conselho do Suco
Conselho do Suco)     beforehand              It is not really a problem at  As far as we know, their  should not be involved as
the village level. People  activities are limited to  the community no longer
trust them, it is more the  CEP.                  trust them.
posto level that is not
trusted.
ANNEX D Results of the Community Interviews - non-Pilot Suco



Name of suco         Bobokasi                 Bobometo                Nipani                   Naimeco
Need for separate    Women want groups by     Women would like a      We want a separate group  We (women) are capable
women's groups       themselves. Now they     separate group, but if it  so we can make our own  of having their own group,
have a right to be active in  was agricultural activities,  decisions, but we would  but we would still hope to
leadership roles. Also,  we would need help from  also need help from men  get help from men if we
they could have mixed    men to clear land       for things like making a  needed it.
groups and men only                              fence.
groups
Assistance farmers   We want to rent the 2    We need seeds of all     Training about farming.  We need advice on how to
feel they need        DAO tractors because    sorts. Especially corn   We need more seeds,     look after our livestock
they are cheaper than    seeds because ours are  such as peanuts. Also we  better, also how to look
private ones. We want the  already 3 years old. Also  need advice/lectures  after our forests. So far all
DAO to provide good      need training in        about all aspects of     we have received are
quality, affordable      horticulture and pesticide  agriculture          directives about what not
fertiliser. Training in pest  use.                                        to do, but how do we
reduction, and also                                                       actually look after the
training so that we can do                                                forests? We also need
our own vaccinations                                                      extra seedlings to replant
deforested land
Preferred method of  We want the DAO staff to  It is much better if people  It's better if people come  It's best if the DAO staff
delivery             come here and train us   from the DAO come        straight here so farmers  come directly here. This is
directly, or they could take  directly to the village to  can understand more. This  necessary because many
some of us to the districts  provide training face-to-  is especially important as  people are illiterate.
to train to become PPL, or  face                 most of the community are
the system of 'farmer                            illiterate
contacts' should be re-
established. Radio is not
useful. Needs to be in
Dawan language, but
more importantly, we need
to see things with our own
eyes.
Presence of PPL pre  Yes, he showed us the    Yes, but all he did was  Yes, he divided us into  Yes, he did
99 and perception of  correct spacing for     sleep. He was not useful  groups to plant        demonstrations on
usefulness           planting corn and rice and  to the community.     vegetables. He gave us  correcting spacing for rice
it increased our yields  However some of us went  advice on how to grow   and vegetable planting,
to the neighboring suco  them, including the correct  also how to manage pests
when their PPL was doing  spacing to maximise    and how to make fertiliser.
demonstration (planting in  production, It was very  He also provided the
rows using string), and this  useful for the farmers,  seeds we needed. All this
was useful               because we didn't know  was very useful for the
the correct spacing before  community.
Level of information  There was more in       There was more advice   It's the same. There is still  There was more then than
available compared   Indonesian times because  and information in      advice/lectures and     now - especially from
to Indonesian times   there were more staff at  Indonesian times. The  vaccinations as before  agriculture and the PPL
and thoughts of      the sub-district level so  PPL in the next suco was                       who was directly in the
quality of service    more face-to-face contact.  hardworking and was                          field
We know there are       taken to Sulawesi for
limitations now. Hard to  training. Now although we
compare quality.         have been given seeds,
we have not received
training in how to grow
them properly
Vaccination services  Cattle -50% Nov 02      Cattle  +50%  Oct 02     Cattle -50% Oct 02      Cattle  -50%  Oct 02
provided and         Buffalo 100% Nov 02      Pigs  +50%    June 02    Buffalo* 100% July 02   Buffalo 100%  Oct 02
estimated % of       Pigs   100% May 02                                Pigs -50%   Aug 02      Pigs   -50%   Oct 02
coverage and date                                                     *Vaccinated prior to     Chickens -50% Oct 02
distribution to community
ANNEX D Results of the Community Interviews - non-Pilot Suco



Name of suco         Bobokasi                Bobometo                 Nipani                  Naimeco
Numbers thought to   None                    None                     1 - 2 cows, about 1 - 2  None
have died as a result                                                weeks after the
and time lapse                                                       vaccination
Brief description of  The vaccinator bought a  The vaccinator came and  The vaccinator came and  The vaccinator came
process of           letter to the Suco. The  told the Chefe do Suco,  informed the Chefe to  directly and informed the
vaccination          Chefe do Suco and       who told the Chefe Aldeia  Suco, who in turn informed  Chefe do Suco, who
Aldeias then told the   who then organised the  the Chefe Aldeia. They  informed the Chefe do
community about it. Only 2  community. We were told  were responsible for  Aldeia. They were then
people present heard    to count our animals,   organising the community.  responsible for organising
about it on the radio. The  make a corral, and have  We were told to make a  the community. We were
community did not attempt  all the animals gathered  corral for vaccinations and  told to make a corral in
to get the animals (cattle)  there by a certain date.  to pen all the animals in  one place and make sure
that are free-ranging in the  Not everyone got their  the corral. Women and  all the animals were in it
hills. People lie about the  animals from the hills, but  men work together. If the  when the vaccinator came.
number of animals,      all cooperated to have  man is not available, the  People complied with this,
because while there is no  those already tied up / in  women will do all the tasks  except for catching the
taxation now, they are  stalls vaccinated. Women  associated with        animals in the hills. This
worried that there will be in  are only involved in  vaccination. The    was not done. Only
the future. We made a   vaccinations if their   vaccinators came on time  women who were widows
corral but didn't use it  husbands are away. The  but there are not enough  were fully involved in
because we didn't get the  vaccinators came on time  of them in Oecussi. Also,  vaccinations because they
animals from the hills  but they didn't have    they are only contracted  don't have husbands to do
enough vaccine so they  fro a short time.       it for them. The vaccinator
came back the next day to                       came when he said he
finish                                           would, but there are not
enough vaccinators.
Reasons why some     It is hard to gather the  It is too difficult to get all  Generally, all those  It is too difficult to gather
people don't         animals from the hills.  the animals from the hills.  animals that are already in  the majority of the animals
vaccinate            Easier to let them die.  The vaccinators did not  pens/tied up are       (cattle and pigs) who are
People are not aware    give us enough warning  vaccinated. It is only those  free ranging in the hills
enough of the benefits of  (only a few days - need a  that are in the hills and
vaccination to get together  few weeks).There are also  difficult to catch that are
and get them from the hills  pigs free ranging there.  not.
all at once.            We get together as a
group to catch one of our
animals if we want to sell it
but not so far for
vaccinations
Willingness to       Maybe we will try to get  If we are given more   We want to vaccinate    We will try harder next
vaccinate next time  more animals next time. It  warning, next time we will  more animals next time  vaccination to collect more
is a community          make more effort to get                          animals. Both men and
responsibility. MAFF    our animals down from the                        women think it is important
already do their share  hills and hopefully more                        they are protected from
will be vaccinated next                          illness. We would prefer
time                                             that vaccination occurs in
August so it does not
happen late and animals
die.
Perceived benefits of  It keeps our animals  Animals that are        Vaccination guards      It prevents animals from
vaccinating          healthy                 vaccinated are healthier,  against animals getting  getting sick. In general,
and it prevents them from  sick                  our animals that have
getting sick                                     been vaccinated do not
get sick
Perceived link       None.                   None - if animals die after  1 - 2 cows died 1 - 2  None
between                                      vaccination, it is because  weeks following
vaccinations and                             they were sick anyway    vaccination. The owner
animal deaths                                                        said they were not sick
before hand. The DLO
clarified that it was
possible the animals were
carrying the SE bacteria
ANNEX D Results of the Community Interviews - non-Pilot Suco



Name of suco         Bobokasi                Bobometo                 Nipani                  Naimeco
before they were
vaccinated but had not
developed the symptoms
yet.
Willingness to pay   We are doubtful that    Yes, if we have to, but  In general, we are      Yes, we will pay, but not if
for vaccinations in  people will pay. Even   must be according to our  prepared to pay to have  the service is from the
future               though it is free now,  capacity to pay          our animals vaccinated -  government. If it is from
people are still lazy to get                    as long as it is not too  the government, they
all their animals. It was                       expensive and beyond our  already get paid so why
free in Indonesian times. It                    means. We think it should  should we pay them
would depend on the                             only cost about .50cents  again?
economy of the suco.                            or $1.
Where would we get the
money from?
Usual response to    For pigs we use the water  Sometimes we try to   Most times animals get  Usually we kill and eat
animal illness       from boiled papaya      contact the DLO, but the  sick and quickly die. But if  them if they get sick.
leaves. We don't do     animals usually die before  they are still alive after  Sometimes we call the
anything for other animals,  he gets here. We don't  about 3 days, we try to  DLO or contact someone
Just kill them and eat them  know any traditional  use traditional medicine  in the suco who knows
before they die         medicine. Usually we kill  which we make ourselves  about traditional medicine
them and eat or sell them  or call the DLO.
before they die
Knowledge of VLW     No, maybe the last chefe  No, we haven't heard of  Have not heard about this  Don't know about this
program and          do suco knew about it   this                     program                 program
selection of VLWs
Likelihood of calling  That would depend on  We would call them,     Yes we would so that they  Perhaps, if they can help
such a person to     how much it would cost  butonly if they lived near  could treat the animal  us with sick animals
treat a sick animal                          the suco
How much might it    We don't know. Whether  We don't know how much  It should only cost as   We cannot answer that. If
cost and would you   we would pay would      it might cost. We would  much as the community   a VLW comes here, they
pay?                 depend on ability to pay  pay, but not for another  can afford. If we can afford  will have to discuss with
year or so because we   it, we will pay         the community how much
don't have any money yet                        to charge. We would pay
as long as there is an
agreement between the
two parties. As long as
they are not paid by the
govemment as well
Would payment be     Whether its in money or in  Yes, exchanging goods  If people have money,  If we have money, we
easier if it was in the  kind would ultimately  would be possible, but it  they will pay money. If not,  would pay with money. If
form of goods        depend on the VLW        would depend on the VLW  they will use whatever  not, it might be possible to
exchange                                                              goods they have to      exchange goods, as long
exchange                as the VLW agreed
Is there a need for a  Yes, we need this type of  Yes, but they would have  Yes, we need this sort of  Yes, they can help people
trained livestock    service so our animals  to come from this village.  service to help us with sick  who need to treat sick
worker in your suco?  don't die              There are 9 aldeia to   animals                  animals
cover. Must live here. Not
like the PPL before
Is this a suitable job  Yes, as long as they are  No. The suco is to big for  Yes, as long as there is  Yes, as long as women
for a woman?         trained - even for big  a woman to cover -       training and maximum    are provided with
animals                 especially if she was   support provided         approprate training this
marned. What if she came                         would be a suitable job for
home late?                                      them
ANNEX D Results of the Community Interviews - non-Pilot Suco



ANNEX E Case Studies of Irrigation Schemes Assisted by ARP I and ARP 11
A NOTE OF CAUTION ABOUT THE ACCURACY OF THE IRRIGATION CASE STUDIES
The focus group interviews for developing the irrigation system case studies were largely conducted just after the
works were completed. The drought had prevented planting at the normal time (Dec/Jan) and none of the schemes
had planted yet following completion of the rehabilitation works. Farmers were therefore left to guess how many
people might plant in the coming season following rehabilitation completion, and their estimations may well prove
incorrect and should be closely monitored.
In addition, although a standard format was used during the interviews (attached in Annex B), information received
was often contradictory as farmers grappled with the many and varied constraints to production which may or may
not influence farmer's decisions to plant. It is acknowledged that each individual farmer makes decisions based on
their own personal socio-economic situation, and that the views of a group in an interview situation may obscure the
real reasons farmers decide to plant or not. Aspects which were considered important by some key informants were
not mentioned by farmers themselves. Most had trouble estimating the number of hectares which could potentially be
irrigated and which were actually planted, so the numbers provided should be viewed with caution despite farmer's
best efforts to be accurate.
Although efforts were made to invite as many WUA members to these discussions as possible, communication
limitations meant that the invitation was not always extended as planned and respondents largely comprised WUA
boards. The tendency for the WUA board members to be more progressive may influence their perceptions of what
proportion of the community does and does not have sufficient and affordable access to buffalo use or tractor hire.
Poorer farmers may therefore have been under-represented in these discussions, and may need special attention in
any programs aimed at assisting the provision of inputs essential to increasing rice production other than water.
ANNEX E Irrigation Scheme Case Studies



ANNEX E Case Study, Baedubo Irrigation Scheme, Uatocarabau Subdistrict, Viqueque
Section 1. Results of discussions with key informants
Vicente H Guterres, former technical staff of Irrigation and Public Works, Dili, now head of the WUA section, MAFF
Jose Henrique, former Head of the District Agricultural Office, now staff of GTZ agricultural program
Bernado do Costa Pinto, former village head and person responsible for expansion of irrigation works
Pedro Pinto, also responsible for the irrigation expansion scheme
History of the scheme pre 1999
Initial works on the irrigation scheme commenced under the Portuguese Administration in 1949 under the initiative of
the Liurai (King) and head of the sub-district. Rice planting started in 1957. Initially, five suco were involved in forced
land preparation and rice planting. Following the war in 1959, farmers started replanting in 1960, and this continued
until 1964 when the scheme was expanded to include a sixth village. However the harvest that year was low due to
damage to the irrigation channel and conflict between the farmers. In 1977, farmers again fled to the hills during the
war with the Indonesian occupiers. They came back and started planting rice again around 1982, however this was
also encouraged through the use of coercion (threats of violence and withdrawal of liberty) even though the rice
product was for the farmers' own consumption.
In 1989 the Indonesian Government undertook a survey of the schemes potential and in 1994 expanded the irrigated
area by extending the primary canal. It was estimated that @ 1000 ha could be irrigated under this system, however
the WUA members interviewed admitted to being a little sceptical about this figure. Apparently the required number
of hectares to qualify for extensive irrigation works was 1000. It was therefore in the interests of both the contractor
and the community to exaggerate the potential in order that the works go ahead. However the secondary and tertiary
channels were never completed, so this potential was never realised.
The estimated potential for total irrigated land is therefore difficult to estimate, and key informant accounts (as well as
those of the community) varied greatly. The potential is estimated at 900 at most, while the most land actually planted
in rice at any one time during the history of the scheme is estimated to be @300.
The paddy is owned by approximately 427 households from six surrounding villages (Irabin de Baxio, Afaloicai, Uani
Uma, Irabin Decima, Bahatata and Loi Ulu). These are descendants of the original landholders, and though there
may have been a few internal migrants over the years, these have now all left. Land disputes are rare and are usually
settled within the community. The land irrigated under the 1994 irrigation extension works was distributed by the
traditional owner to people (members of his extended family) who traditionally grow rain fed corn crops on the
hinterland slopes. Some of these people live up to 14 km away from the irrigated paddy.
Planting trends 1994 - 1999
During the Indonesian era, there was a crops extension officer based in Uatocarabau. In 1989, IR64 and 36 was
demonstrated there but was not popular with the farmers. Urea and TSP was also trialed in a demonstration plot.
One farmer said he tried it, but because the soil was already very fertile, his fertilised plot yielded less (because of
over fertilisation) and he never tried it again. Farmers in the scheme have never used fertiliser on a regular basis.
However many have routinely used pesticide (especially in 1998 when there was a major pest problem) which they
purchased from the Farmer's Cooperative (KUD). Buffalo were the main means of land preparation using the renca
system, and these were plentiful and available for use through a 50/50 split of the produce for those not owning
significant herds). There were @ five hand tractors available, but these were used by a wealthy minority.
After the scheme was expanded, the Indonesians paid a contractor (Nindia Karya) to de-silt the intake and primary
channels prior to the main planting season every year. All the farmers had to do was prepare their land and plant.
There was no charge for water use or maintenance costs. The WUA members interviewed were of the opinion that
this was a bad thing as it was the manifestation of a political decision to win the hearts and minds of the community
ANNEX E Irrigation Scheme Case Studies



and make them dependent on the government. During this time, the farmers could sell as much rice as they wanted
to the KUD at a price determined by the government.
There was no formal WUA established during this time. A worker (Waicabu) was chosen by the community and paid
to manage the gates and control the intake. Farmers then managed the secondary and tertiary channels using
traditional methods of water distribution. They used sticks with pieces of string tied round them. If the water was
under the string, it meant your neighbor was taking too much. If it was over the string, it meant you were taking too
much and could be subject to sanctions (supplying a buffalo for a feast) by the sub-district head or the village head,
who had the power to enforce such sanctions and empowered the Waicabu to control the community's use of the
water.
More farmers plant in the April/May than the January/February period, although estimates vary. It was thought that
only 100ha of the 300 were planted in January/February. Part of the reason for this is that half of the land is too
muddy to plant in the wet season, while the other half is too dry to plant in the dry season. In general, 220 families
plant in the April/May, and the other 205 families plant in Jan/March. Planting of one crop only per year per family
has been the tradition as far as anyone could remember. Only those few families (10-15) with land in both areas
could plant twice a year. One of the impediments to rice production was said to be labour shortages. Because the
security situation in the villages was unstable, many young men in particular moved to the district town where they
could achieve anonymity more easily. This reduced the labour available for rive cultivation.
The post-conflict situation, September 1999 to February 2003
Land ownership did not change following independence, however despite an improved security situation, many
people chose to remain in the district town. Their land can be used freely by other family members. In 1999 the intake
was destroyed by flooding along with sections of the channel. It was not repaired until 2002, and as a result, was full
of three years worth of sedimentation. Paddy was produced only in the wet season of 2001/2 on @50ha of land.
Planting in the subsequent season was disrupted as irrigation rehabilitation under ARP started in May 2001 and
finished in June 2002. As far as the farmers were concerned, this work was not beneficial, as it only included the BD1
- IV section, and did not include the BDIV - VII section, which was full of mud up to 2 meters deep. They considered
the work involved in clearing it manually to be beyond their capacity. The WUA took the initiative to submit a proposal
to GTZ (German bi-lateral program) for assistance to rent the excavator which is administered by the local pastor.
(The excavator was intended to be handed over by the UN to the DAO, but because it was thought that they were not
yet ready to manage it's use effectively, it was handed over to the Church who rents it out for a fee). The cost of 28
days excavation work was $5000. GTZ paid half this cost, and the farmers are expected to pay the rest following
harvest. The excavation work was completed on January 24, 2003.
The farmers are now preparing some of the land to plant this March/April. They only anticipate planting @70ha from
what they estimate to be 380ha which could be irrigated. Following recent flooding, an estimated @ 100 of the 380ha
has been covered in sand and mud and cannot be used to grow rice. The remaining 200 ha is considered too muddy
to plant at this time of year.
Section 2. Results of the discussion with the WUA
Respondents
The interview was due to coincide with a meeting of the WUA with MAFF to distribute maintenance equipment for the
scheme. The meeting time and date had not been communicated to the WUA however and the distribution was
postponed. The discussion went ahead but only the 5 members of the WUA board were present. The former village
head and an aldeia head were also present. None of the respondents were women.
ANNEX E Irngation Scheme Case Studies



Results of the discussion
Due to the fact that the scheme had only been completed in time for the 2002/3 planting season, the discussion
focused on this and plans for the 2003 April May planting seasons. In the present Feb/Mar planting season, the WUA
estimated that they would only plant @70ha. In the coming April/May 2003, they estimate only 280ha will be planted
due to the sedimentation covering 1 00ha of paddy land. Factors which are supporting plans to plant include the
assistance from GTZ with the excavator as well as assistance with seed and pesticide. GTZ will provide seeds for
this and the April/May planting season. The farmers do not wish to use fertiliser, even if it is available, as they believe
their land is fertile enough already. They have enough buffalo to prepare the land in both seasons, and there are @4
hand tractors available for those who can afford to use them.
The factors which are hampering increasing the number of hectares planted were proritised by the WUA and the
results are presented in the following table in order of priority:
Problems affecting both January and May plantings
Problem and score             What can be done to address the problem          Who should be responsible?
Flooding (causes damage to    1. Make a retaining wall to divert the floodwaters from the  MAFF
intake and washes away January  intake
rce before harvest)           2. Try planting a rice variety that matures before the  The WUA
(7)                           floodwaters come
Intake gets silted up (5)     1. Need an excavator (depending on the amount of  1. The farmers, through
sediment)                                        collecting money
2. The gate monitor needs to be reinstated       2. The WUA
3. Straighten the river with a bulidozer         3. 80% payment from
NGO/MAFF
The nver course shifts (5)     Need an excavator to guide the water into the intake  WUA board with conthbutions
from members
Traditional to plant rce only in  Make a demonstration plot to demonstrate the benefits of  WUA board with contributions
April/May (3)                 a second planting in January (2004)              from members (the head of the
WUA wants to try on his own
______________________________                             ~~~~~~~~~~~land)
The threat of pests (3)        Need to make pesticides available again          GTZ will provide initial
assistance, after that it is up to
the WUA
Water disthbution is not yet even  Need to make a roster of water use for each section of  Farmers with the help of the
(2)                           the scheme                                       WUA board
It is traditional to plant rice at this  Need to make a roster for planting both rice and com  Farmers who wish to plant rce
time of year (1)                                                                and com, with the help of the
WUA board
Sections 1 - 3 of the scheme are  1. Re-route the small stream from section 2 back into the  1. Needs a substantial amount
too muddy to plant in the wet  rver                                             of money
season (0)'                   2. Fix the leakages in the irhgation channel      2. Farmers, with financial
assistance from an NGO
*The problem of flooding in Sections 1 - 3 of the scheme, whilst receiving a low score, still need attention as this land could potentiall be
planted in both the wet and the dry seasons
The issue of flooding, which was in turn related to silting of the intake and shifting of the river course was clearly seen
as the biggest impediment to utilising the irrigation system optimally. The coincidence of future damage to the system
and a slow response could easily destroy farmer's faith in the governmenUcommunity joint responsibility embodied in
the Operation and Maintenance guidelines. Neither price nor the capacity to sell was mentioned as a disincentive to
plant. This will need to be closely monitored after the first few harvests to find out farmer's perceptions when they try
to sell their first surpluses from this scheme since 1998.
Clearly, the issue of flooding in both seasons is an issue in Sections BD1 - 3, as well as the hardness of the ground
in Jan/Feb in sections BD5 - 7, with neither considered suitable to be planted twice. The farmers believe tractors
could help overcome this problem as they can work harder land better than buffalo. The issue of pests creating a
ANNEX E Irngation Scheme Case Studies



disincentive to plant should be ameliorated by the availability of pesticides (and likely training in its effective use)
provided by GTZ. The WUA is still in its infancy, and by it's own admission, was suffering a 'leadership crisis'. They
do not feel they can force the community to plant rice, as has been the practice during both the Portuguese and the
Indonesian eras, and their legitimacy as a controlling body is not yet accepted by the community.
Comparison of Estimates from the feasibility study
The feasibility study estimated that 335ha could be planted in both the wet and dry seasons, and that there could be
a third planting of other crops on 140ha.
Section 3 The WUA
No formal WUAs were established under the Indonesian or Portuguese administrations. However farmers had
traditional arrangements which were policed by the Waicabo, who was given authority by the Sub-district head and
the village leader (see above section).
The WUA in Baedubo (Borala) was established in March 2002, with 407 male members and 20 female members and
a board of five office holders. Although women are active in planting, weeding and harvesting rice, they are rarely
involved in irrigation activities. The board claimed that women were invited to the first meeting, however it transpired
that only the household head (normally a man) was invited to represent each household. The 20 female members
are therefore all widows, and according to the head of the WUA, they were 'forced' to accept them as they didn't
have husbands to represent them. The board felt confident that the interests of women in the area of irrigation are
well represented by their husbands.
The WUA board are still in the process of forming the sub-groups according to the 7 sections of the irrigation scheme
(which are able to be used). To date they have been active in developing the proposal for assistance from GTZ with
the excavator, but little else. They have developed a concept for primary irrigation channel maintenance (cleaning)
which allocates 5 meters of channel for every 2500m2 of land. Farmers would be responsible for cleaning their own
section of secondary canal. They have not yet informed the farmers of this plan. They also have a plan to control the
intake themselves.
The biggest challenge the board faces is in encouraging the farmers to plant rice in the absence of force. They feel
they have no authority over the farmers but have been given an enormous organisational responsibility. The
maintenance of the system requires considerable person hours, and while they are willing to try to get farmers to
clean minimal sedimentation manually, they are concerned that major sedimentation will again require the use of the
excavator and they haven't yet paid for the most recent use. The board are worried that only a few motivated farmers
will end up doing all of the work and this may prove to be a task beyond their capacity.
The leader of the WUA is relatively young and believes he does not have the right or the authority to influence older
farmers. Despite this conviction, he is prepared to try planting IR52 on his own land in January 2004 to demonstrate
that this faster maturing rice might be harvested before flooding occurs in May to damage the crop. He is also keen to
try planting legumes on the paddy land as a third crop by way of a demonstration to other farmers. He had
experience of planting soy beans during a demonstration conducted by the Indonesians, and believes this could be
successful too.
Section 4 Knowledge of the ASCS
None of the farmers interviewed had heard of the ASC. They knew that people had come with trucks to buy copra
and candle nut, but they didn't know where they were from. They said they were paying 8cents per kilo for copra.
After the function and services of the ASC were explained, the farmers felt that if the ASC could supply pesticide for
them to buy this would be a useful service to replace the KUD.
ANNEX E Irrigation Scheme Case Studies



ANNEX E Case Study, Uaibati Irrigation Scheme, Uatocarabau Subdistrict, Viqueque
Section 1. Results of discussions with key informants
Duarte Pinto, Elderly farmer and resident of Uaibati
Lino Fernandes, owner of paddy land and resident of Uaibati
Armindo Martins, Owner of paddy land
Abilio da Crux, farmer
History of the scheme pre 1999
Approximately 30ha of irrigated land was opened in 1950 under the authority of the Sub-district head (Adelino
Tinoko) and the King (Afonso Fernandes). The irrigation system was traditional, with no permanent structures. About
55 farmers participated in this work over a three month period. This paddy was planted with one crop per year until
the disturbance of the war in 1976 during which the farmers abandoned their land and fled to the hills. In 1979 they
returned to their land and recommenced planting rice. They continued only to plant once a year until 2001. During
this time the land under the scheme was expanded to 40ha.
There are 52 families from two suco with ownership rights to the paddy in the Uaibati scheme. The majority come
from Uani Umo and the remainder from Irabin Bawah. In Portuguese times the farmers lived in what is known as old
Uatu Carbau which was about 16km from the paddy land. In Indonesian times, the military moved these farmers to
what is known as new Uatu Carbao, which is much closer to the paddy land. In Portuguese times, land disputes often
occurred, but these were normally settled by the community, although sometimes requiring the intervention of the
administration. In Indonesian times, these disputes continued, and the Indonesian administration was not able to
settle them as the community did not believe in their authority. Some of these disputes are as yet unresolved but are
said to be minor.
Planting trends 1979 - 2001
Fertiliser trials were conducted at the scheme by the Indonesians (TSP, Urea, KCL) for two years, but the results
were not convincing, and much of the paddy died so farmers are no longer keen to use it to improve production.
Pesticides were also trialed and farmers are happy to use them as the area is badly affected by pests.
Farmers only plant rice in April/May (the wet season in the south). Whilst the total potential paddy area was between
34 - 50ha, the most that was ever cultivated in one season was 15 - 30ha depending on the amount of water
available. Buffalo (renca) is most commonly used for land preparation, and some farmers rent tractors. Most of the
rice produced was used for home consumption, with only a small amount being sold to the KUD at a price
determined by the government. The main limiting factor to expanding the paddy was the limitation of the water source
when the spring feeding the river dries up. Other factors included the scarcity of buffalo which had to be hired under a
system of paying half the rice crop to the buffalo owners. Tractors were also prohibitively expensive and there were
not enough of them to go round.
The post-conflict situation, September 1999 to February 2003
Land ownership did not change following independence, with the same 52 families retaining ownership of the 34ha of
paddy. Planting continued until 2001 depending on the amount of water available in the system. Some of the paddy
was not irrigated and those farmers relied on rain to plant their crops.
Rehabilitation of the scheme started on 14 January 2002 and finished in early June, however the gate for the intake
was only supplied in March 2003. The intake was provided with a functioning gate and 436 meters of the canal were
constructed/repaired. Farmers could not plant in the rainy season of 2002 (April/May) because the repairs were not
finished in time.
ANNEX E Irrigation Scheme Case Studies



Section 2. Results of the discussion with the WUA
Respondents
Approximately 10 members and representatives of the board were present during the discussions.
The Uaibati scheme has two distinct sections which are controlled overall by the WUA Uaibati Furak. Two further
branches have been established to represent the different sections:- WUA Loro-matan and WUA Haburas. In total
there are 52 members, with only 3 of them women. The women are widows who do not have husbands or older male
children to represent them.
Results of the discussion
Since Portuguese times rice has only been planted once a year in the rainy season (April/May). In the dry season,
there has never been enough water to plant. Farmers hope to be able to plant twice now that the channel is in good
condition, but this is dependent on the amount of rainfall and the presence of a 'normal' season (as opposed to the
situation of drought they are facing now).
Because the rains were late in coming, farmers have not been motivated to prepare the land for planting. Now that
the rains have started, they plan to start land preparation in the next few weeks in time for an April/May planting.
Factors which are supporting planting include:
- most farmers have buffalo, and though some don't, they are able to rent them for payment of half their crop
- there are three hand tractors which can be rented
- there is paddy land and sufficient labour for planting.
The factors which are hampering increasing the number of hectares planted were prioritised by the WUA and the
results are presented in the following table in order of priority:
Problems affecting both January and May plantings
Problem and score             What can be done to address the problem  Who should be responsible?
Not enough water              1. Make a roster for distnbuting water  Farmers and WUA board
(4)                           2. Make an agreement with the farmers who use
the water from the upstream intake
Price of tractor rental is expensive  Make an agreement with the NGO who rents the  Farmers and WUA board
(3)                           tractors to do so on a payment in kind (nce)
basis
Crops are affected by pests (2)  1. Contact an NGO to provide pesticide  Farmers and WUA board
2. Make traditional pesticides themselves
Not enough rice seeds available (1)  1. Save remainder of seeds for the coming  Farmers and WUA board
planting season
2. Make a proposal to the ASCs
Not enough buffalo for ploughing  Animals can be rented to other farmers  Farmers
(OY                          according to individual agreements
*Although buffalo are most commonly used, the fact that they got a low score as a problem is an indicator of farmer's
shifting preferences for tractors.
Comparison of Estimates from the feasibility study
The feasibility study estimated that 60ha could be planted in the wet and 50ha in the dry season.
Section 3 The WUA
No formal WUAs were established under the Indonesian or Portuguese administrations. However farmers organised
themselves into two groups because there were often conflicts over water distribution (given that water is scarce in
this scheme). They gave the authority for water distribution to the 'Waicabu', who was responsible for determining the
roster and distributing the water.
ANNEX E Irngation Scheme case Studies



Because the scheme was small, there was never any assistance provided in keeping the channels clear by the
Indonesian government. Because the water has not been available until recently (due to the drought) the WUA has
not yet been active in developing a water roster. They feel that a WUA is a reasonable way to manage their water
resources as long as it is within their capacity to do so. They estimate that most operation and maintenance tasks are
within their capacity, however repairs to the gate and intake may not be in the future (depending on their severity).
As this system is spring fed, it is particularly reliant on adequate rainfall. Planting in the scheme this wet season
should be closely monitored to see whether the potential for 50ha in the wet season is realistic, and again in the dry
season of 2003 to see whether any planting is possible. If so, a demonstration may be appropriate to encourage
further uptake.
Section 4 Knowledge of the ASCS
The farmers interviewed had heard of the term "ASC" but didn't know what it was. After explanation, they felt it could
be a possible source of pesticide provision.
ANNEX E Irrgation Scheme Case Studies



ANNEX E Case Study, Futudu II Community Scheme Irrigation Scheme, Ossu Subdistrict, Viqueque
Section 1. Results of discussions with key informants and farmers
Felipi Da Silva, former neighbourhood leader in Bua Nurak
Virgilio Panao, former head of the farmers group
Luis da Silva, Secretary of Bia Nurak village
Manuel Afonso, Head of the hamlet
Approximately 40 farmers participated in the discussions
History of the scheme pre 1999
The Futudu scheme commenced in 1955 under the initiative of Dom Fransisco (King) and irrigated 24ha of land. This
was later expanded to 52ha. Water for the scheme came from Loihuno and Builua springs which fed the Futudu river.
Water was plentiful and the paddy was cultivated once a year up until the war in 1975 when farmers fled to the hills.
Planting recommenced in 1980 up until 1985, when the Loihunu spring filled up with dirt and dried up. Builua spring
was still functioning, but there was not enough water for all the paddy. The situation worsened in 1992 when the
Indonesian government constructed a pipeline from Builua spring to Viqueque to provide clean water for the town's
consumption. Since then, water in the river in the dry season is minimal, and in the wet season (April - May), they
can only plant if the rains are sufficient to supplement the irrigation, and normally on only @24ha.
67 families from two villages have ownership rights to the land in Futudu: 42 families from Uabubo, and 25 from
Loihuno. Most of the families live close to the paddy. There is an ongoing dispute over land ownership between
siblings that until now has not been resolved, however it is considered an internal family matter and is not the
responsibility of village authorities.
There is no formal WUA managing the scheme, however farmers are organised informally and have a 'larmer
contact" group, some members of which was sent to Java to study rice growing and fertiliser application in particular.
Water distribution was done traditionally by agreeing the amounts according to need.
Planting trends 1985 - 1999
In the rainy season, the potential that could be planted was 52ha, although actual planting usually only occurred on
26ha due to water shortage. Most farmers use buffalo to prepare the land. There was a tractor demonstration once
but they have never been used regularly. The Indonesian army also demonstrated the use of ploughs. Farmers
generally used their crop for home consumption because they did not grow enough to sell and there was no market
for any surplus (no buyers coming to the village).
The Indonesian introduced IR-64 to the farmers in the scheme. They felt it had good yields as long as you used
modern inputs, but the yields were not as good using traditional methods. They have tried fertilisers like TSP, Urea
and KCL and there was also once a demonstration of pesticide. Despite the demonstrations, fertiliser was not used
regularly.
The post-conflict situation, September 1999 to February 2003
Land ownership did not change following independence, with the same 67 families retaining ownership of the 52ha of
paddy. Work commenced on the rehabilitation of the scheme on 28 October 2002 and was completed on 6
December. It involved repairing 315 meters of canal. Around this time however the large retaining wall built by the
Indonesians to dam the water and guide it into the intake collapsed. This meant they have not able to use the
irrigation system since it was rehabilitated. They tried to overcome the problem by building a new wall using large
wire baskets and rocks (beronjong) but this to was knocked down in heavy rains. They do not know how they can
overcome this problem, but want assistance to try and build a bigger, stronger wall. Failing this, they will try to
construct a simple bamboo and leaf structure after the worst of the rains are over.
ANNEX E Irrgation Scheme Case Studies



Because of the situation, they do not hold high hopes for planting in this system in the near future, although this will
depend on the intensity of the rain in the coming months. Due to water shortages outlined above, it is never possible
to plant in the dry season.
The situation of the collapse of the retaining wall has been reported to MAFF, however the cost of the work required
are excessively high compared to repairs to other priority schemes, and may not be cost effective to go ahead with
given the water situation and the likelihood that only one crop per year can be irrigated.
Comparison of Estimates from the feasibility study
The feasibility study estimated that the scheme comprised lOOha which potentially could be planted.
Section 2 Knowledge of the ASCS
The farmers interviewed at first said they had not heard of the ASC, and nor had anyone been to their village buying
copra or candlenut. After the explanation, one person present said he had heard about it on the radio and could
relate which ASC was buying which type of produce.
ANNEX E Irrgation Scheme Case Studies



ANNEX E Case Study, Bilimau Irrigation Scheme, Kailako Sub-District, Bobonaro
Section 1. Results of the discussions with key informants:
Alfredo, the DIO from Maliana
Guilherme da Costa, resettled in Bilimo in 1982, and subsequently an ETADEP field worker until the mid 1990s.
Giliman, executive director of ETADEP
Norburto, site manager for the ETADEP base at Raimate
History of the scheme
Prior to 1982 there were relatively few hectares of irrigated land close to the Marobo River. In 1982 the Indonesian
Military shifted 700 families to the area. These families had previously been imprisoned on Atauro island as political
prisoners. The majority originated from the Districts of Viqueque, Los Palos and Baucau. They were mostly relatives
of clandestine fighters living in the hillsides, or suspected anti-Indonesian activists. The paddy allocated to them was
'owned' by families from the 6 villages nearby who had ancestral connections to that particular land. It was largely
'sleeping land' at the time, unused for crop cultivation but likely used as grazing land.
The 700 families were housed in housing estates made up of small houses built in rows, each with a small garden.
Each family was issued with one hoe each by the Military, but were left to their own devices to borrow rice and other
staple seeds from the local population. Every morning and night they had to report to the local village-based military
representative (Hansip). Working in groups, they opened up the 250 - 350 hectares of land and extended the simple
network of irrigation channels that make up the Bilimau system.
1982 - 1987
After the internal migrants were relocated to Bilimau, Catholic Relief Services (CRS) and the local NGO ETADEP
started a program of assistance to introduce improved farming methods. This included the provision of 26 tractors to
assist with land preparation, which was an appropriate response as the settlers had no buffalo or cows with which to
prepare the land. The tractors were provided free of charge for the first year, after which farmers had to pay for fuel.
A system was established which involved collection of money to maintain the tractors, however this was not sufficient
to replace them when their condition worsened by 1987. During this time, ETADEP also provided training and
equipment for ploughing. Approximately 60 pairs of buffalo were trained over 1984 - 86. Apparently they were used
for two to three years, then people let the animals go and went back to the renca system. Although no formal
evaluation was done, the reasons that ploughing was discontinued were that there was little, measurable
improvement in yield compared to tractors or renca, and there is a scarcity of fodder to feed the buffalo all year
round. Ploughing buffalo need to be kept in stalls and hand fed using a cut and carry system so they remain
obedient. This represented too much work for families, even though ETADEP supplemented this activity with training
and seedlings for accasia trees and king grass for supplemental fodder. Ploughing is apparently more suited to the
southern rice growing areas where a second, significant rainfall results in greater availability of fodder.
In 1986, all the political prisoners were set free, and with few exceptions, all returned home. The paddy land was
redistributed to the original owners, and in the order of 700-800 families were issued with certificates. As stated
previously, these families came from five neighbouring villages outside Purugua suco (where the paddy is situated) -
including one which is situated in a neighbouring sub-district (Atabai). Some of those owning paddy land therefore
live far from the actual location, in some cases several kilometres away. It is estimated that between 250 - 400 of
these are farming this land now. Others are still in refugee camps in West Timor, or have moved to Maliana, Dili or
ANNEX E Irrigation Scheme Case Studies



elsewhere (although this has not been confirmed). If other families want to use their land, they can do so by informing
the traditional leaders, on the understanding that it will be given back to the owner should they return.
Planting trends (1982-87)
During this time, @250 - 350 ha were planted in rice every wet season. No fertiliser or pesticide was used. Farmers
believe the sedimentation carried by the churned-up river in the wet season provides enough fertiliser. In the dry
season, only around 50 - 70 ha were planted, and these were on the area closest to the river. The simple irrigation
system did not allow all 350 to be irrigated. They prepared the land using tractors rather than animals. Some corn
was also planted in the paddy area, but not by the majority.
1987 - 1999
In 1987, ETADEP sold all the tractors because they considered the maintenance was becoming too expensive. They
purchased 4 more large tractors and 1 hand tractor, and this is still the current size of their fleet. In order to
supplement the traction requirements, ETADEP distributed @ 300 buffalo and 300 cows (these figures were
disputed, it may have only been 100). They were provided on a revolving basis (distributing offspring to other
families), although many families did not necessarily breed their cows or give up the calf as required. Apparently,
there was enough animals available to plant most of the 250 - 350ha during the wet season, but in the dry season,
only the 50 - 70 ha near the river were planted. Whilst there was not enough water to irrigate the whole area, more
than 70 ha could be irrigated (approximately 100 - 150ha). Reasons for not planting a second crop on the @ 30-70
additional ha were that:
a) The cattle / buffalo cannot be used in the dry season to prepare land because their body weight falls in the
dry period due to lack of fodder. This is exacerbated by the practice of burning off the forest before the rain
to make hunting wild pigs and deer easier. There was only enough tractors to plant 50 - 70 ha of paddy
b) Many families felt their subsistence needs were met (by other staple crops such as corn and cassava) and
are not interested in investing the extra effort required for a second crop. This is particularly true for the
families living a long way from the paddy land (for reasons explained in point c and d below). The price paid
for paddy under the Indonesian regime was also not attractive enough to warrant this extra work.
c) The combined impact of the dry season and the practice of burning off the hillsides forces cattle/buffalo onto
the paddy in search of feed, which means crops have to be constantly tended. Although there is a system of
sanctions for crop damage, people would rather have their animals killed and eaten or pay the fine, rather
than lock them up and provide them with scarce fodder every day. The fact that only the minority plant rice
means that the majority are indifferent to their livestock's grazing habits, and the community do not protect
the paddy as a whole.
d) Because of the smaller crop area, there are a greater number of birds which descend on the ripening rice.
This also requires daily vigilance to reduce crop loss. While people are keen to do this once a year as a
community, they are not keen to invest this much time for a second year crop.
e) There is a belief that under a low/no input system of rice growing, rice production is only satisfactory in the
rainy season because the river is churned up and full of silt. The silt content is what fertilizes the crop.
Farmers are reluctant to invest in chemical fertiliser in the dry season because they feel they would have to
use it in the wet season as well. (Whether this was also connected to the low market price for rice was not
confirmed).
On the whole, during this period rice production was steady. One of the supporting factors (confirmed by the WUA)
was the presence of a strong sub-district head, and an active irrigation extension officer. There was also an
excavator/bulldozer which could be used to de-silt the intake as required. The irrigation extension officer helped to
coordinate their needs. That particular sub-district head has since passed away and his loss is felt by the rice-
growing community.
ANNEX E Irrigation Scheme Case Studies



The post conflict period, September 1999 to February 2003
Rice planting was disrupted directly after the violence, and has continued to be hampered, among other reasons,
because of the electoral process and three seasons of below average rainfall (actual rainfall was not confirmed). In
addition, an unconfirmed number of cattle and buffalo were destroyed by the departing Indonesian military, and many
have not been recovered from the hills. In 2001, only 16 - 20 ha were planted in the dry season with disappointing
yields. In the wet season of 2001/02, there was limited planting because construction/rehabilitation of the intake was
underway. This was completed around June 2002 in time for the dry season planting. Only 8 families planted at this
time.
According to ETADEP, Morobo river's current in the wet season becomes extremely strong as it winds down around
the mountain. The retaining wall of bamboo, leaves and stones which guides the river into the intake gets washed
away easily. In Indonesian times, an attempt was made to construct a more permanent structure using large wire
baskets filled with stones (beronjong). This too got quickly washed away. For this reason, the wet season planting is
done later than usual by the majority, when the current is less damaging. In the dry season, the river changes course
completely, and the guiding wall needs to be extended by @500 meters to meet the river. The community felt that the
contractors undertaking the reconstruction work should also build a permanent guiding wall which they would not
have to reconstruct each planting season. However this was not part of the design of the scheme, and was
considered too expensive (and not economically viable). The refusal of the contractor to comply with the community's
wishes caused conflict. When the scheme was handed over, publicly, the community accepted it, but privately, they
rejected it. According to the current ETADEP field staff (based in Raimate), the subsequent refusal to plant in the dry
season of 2002 stems from this unmet expectation. ETADEP believe the community are still hopeful that the World
Bank (work on the scheme is associated with the World Bank) will build the required permanent structure.
Section 2. Results of the discussion with WUA members
Respondents
There were approximately 26 male and 2 female members of the WUA representing five suco. Only 16 of those
present had land that could be irrigated in the dry season. The head of the WUA was in Dili at the time of the
discussion. At least one Chefe do Suco was present and 3 Chefe do Aldeia.
Results of the discussion
(Most of the history of the scheme and the conflict surrounding the non-construction of a permanent intake structure
was not known at the time of the interview. Interestingly, it was not raised by the community - nor was the fact that
local youths had deliberately damaged the intake as they were not employed by the contractor. The damage was
subsequently fixed by the community).
During Indonesian times, there was no formal WUA formed, but people collaborated to operate the scheme with the
help of the sub-district authorities. A WUA was established in 2002. Respondents were vague about the exact month,
but thought it may have been April. Initial training was provided. So far, the group has established sub-groups and
started to clean the irrigation ditches. The WUA leader has prepared a cropping calendar, but as far as the members
were aware, it has not been written down. Because the group has only been established for a short while, they don't
feel they can really discuss progress, as they have not attempted water distribution yet. However they do not foresee
any problems with water distribution. They felt that a WUA is the best way for them to manage their water resources,
and mentioned that before the sub-district head did it for them, but now, with the WUA, they could do it themselves
(this point was made by the village head.)
Last dry season (August 2002)
The last time the paddy was used optimally was in 1998. Small areas have been planted near the river since 1999,
the largest was 27ha in the 2001 wet season with assistance from ETADEP. The following discussion focused on the
ANNEX E Irrgation Scheme Case Studies



past dry season rather than the current wet season. The respondents were those present with paddy that could be
planted twice. Only 16 (2 women) of those present indicated they owned some of the 50 - 70 ha that was routinely
planted twice). These people agreed that planting a second crop in the dry season was a situation they desired.
The factors identified as hampering dry season planting (and to some extent wet season planting) were as follows:
- "Free-ranging cattle and buffalo will enter the planted paddy. In Indonesian times, they were kept far from the
paddy. One alternative is to tie up all the animals for a year until a fence has been constructed to keep them out of
the paddy.
- Not enough tractors. Before there were 26, now there are only five - and two of these are not working. "People
always come from the District and tell us to plant more, but how can we if there aren't enough tractors?"
- Price of tractors too high (including fuel costs). If there were more tractors, hiring them would be cheaper.
- The condition of cattle and buffalo in the dry season is poor, so they cannot be used for renca
- Water is not going into the irrigation channel, but there is enough in the river
- Seeds are old, (and many have been eaten in the dry season because of the drought). Need more and better seed
to plant".
The factors identified as supporting dry season planting were as follows:
- 'We can overcome the animal problems ourselves
- There is enough water now to irrigate in the dry season
- There are five tractors available in the area
- There is credit available for farming inputs from ETADEP and World Vision
- There is credit available from the new bank in Maliana. Every farmer can borrow between $100 -300 and can use
this money to rent tractors from ETADEP".
The group ranked the problems in order of priority as follows:
Equal 1st: Free ranging livestock, Not enough tractors, Not enough/low quality seed available (3)
Second: Fuel costs/tractor rental expensive (1)
Third: Cattle and Buffalo not able to work in dry season (0) (After the introduction of tractors, many farmers are less
interested in using buffalo and cattle for land preparation and see tractors as the solution).
The price (of rice) was not mentioned as a constraining factor. While people felt the price was low, they said they
would sell at that price if they needed money, otherwise the second crop would meet their consumption needs not
met by the initial crop.
Current wet season
The community had just started to clean the irrigation ditches in Late January. The group felt that they could
overcome the problem of reconstructing the entrance to the intake themselves. They did not mention that the
excavator was still available for lease from ETADEP, and as of early February, have not requested to use it. Nor
have they requested the tractors be ready for them in April (the excavator is still based in Raimate). ETADEP
currently rents 4 tractors at @$40 per ha to farmers in the area (two are currently not operational), but they believe
there is only enough tractor power and surviving draft animals to prepare @ 100 ha only in the Bilimau system, so this
may be all that is planted this wet season. They are not concerned about the lateness of planting, as they consider it
normal that the cleaning of irrigation ditches would only occur in January in preparation for an April planting. Indeed,
they routinely use their tractors in other areas from Jan-Mar until the river has dropped sufficiently in Bilimau.
ETADEP also have a credit scheme for the purchase of hand tractors. These are sold to groups at a cost of $2100,
delivered to the village ready to use (including fuel). Groups have five planting season to pay them back. So far, they
have sold 15 units in the area - two in Blimau. None of the groups have paid them back in the required time, so the
ANNEX E Irrigation Scheme Case Studies



loan period had to be extended. It is expected that all repayments will be made as the yield improves. Another 10
units have been requested, and ETADEP are having trouble meeting demand.
Comparison of Estimates from the Feasibility Study
The feasibility study estimated that 350 hectares could be irrigated in both the wet and dry seasons.
Follow up action! recommended further study
It is possible that the farmers are having problems adjusting to the post-conflict situation and will need more time and
support for the WUAs before they can organise their planting for themselves. A follow-up study should be carried out
in May to estimate the total area cropped this wet season. If it is less than the total area, the constraints will need to
be assessed at that time. This may give a good indication of the availability of cattle/buffalo for land preparation. The
2003 dry season planting should then be measured against this as the benchmark for productivity increase providing
the 2003 wet season crop is harvested in time for a dry season planting.
Section 3 Knowledge of the ASCs
The group had heard of the ASC in Maliana but did not know any members. They had not had any dealings with the
ASC or used their services. They hoped the ASC would buy their rice when they start to produce a surplus.
ANNEX E Irrigation Scheme Case Studies



ANNEX E Case Study, Halicou Irrigation Scheme, Cailako Subdistrict, Bobonaro
Section 1. Results of discussions with key informants
Lucio Dinis Marques, rice farmer in the Halicou scheme since 1979
Domingos Barros, former member of the Indonesian Armed Forces and current head of the WUA
Bernado, local transmigrant who was relocated by the TNI to Halicou in 1984
History of the scheme pre 1999
In 1963, the Portuguese sub-district Administrator organised farmers from Ai-Asa, Hauba, Bobonaro and Ritabou
sucos to open up an irrigation system in Ritabou suco. Hundreds of families were involved, and using traditional
irrigation systems (earthen canals), they opened up approximately 145 hectares of paddy. In 1965, the farmers from
Ai-Asa and Bobonaro suco were forced to return to their own suco because the irrigation system was not successful
and they could not grow rice there. However some farmers remained there. In 1975 when the Indonesian army
invaded and farmers fled to the hills and did not return to plant rice until around 1989. Only around 45-50 hectares
were planted in rice in the wet season by approximately 46 families who had been resettled in the area as local
transmigrants suspected by the Indonesian Military of anti-Indonesian activity.
In 1995, the governor of Maliana, Joao Tavars visited Halicou with the agricultural and land departments to
redistribute land to local farmers who still lived around the Halicou area. These farmers were given 1 hectare per
family with ownership rights for around 30 years (although these were not recognised with a formal certificate).
Planting trends 1989 - 1999
Farmers were provided with improved rice seed (IR 32 and 64) as well as pesticide, and they were provided with a
tractor from the agricultural department to assist with land preparation. Between 1991 - 1999 there were three hand
tractors available which came from Maliana. Farmers were able to rent these by paying part of their harvest to the
owners. In 1992-93 the agricultural department (the extension officer from Maliana) made a demonstration plot to
demonstrate the use of modern inputs. The demonstration had reasonable results. Farmers were provided with
assistance in the form of chemical fertiliser, but they rejected this because they believed their land was already very
fertile and did not require fertiliser. Farmers on this scheme in general do not use chemical or organic fertiliser. They
used the produce from the rice to meet their own consumption needs and only sold a small portion to relatives from
Maliana, Hauba and other areas close by. They rarely sold to the KUD.
During this time, there was no formal WUA formed, but farmers relied on traditional methods of water distribution.
There was a farmer especially chosen to ensure all areas were irrigated. Every location (branch) of the scheme had a
leader who was responsible for distributing water on their part of the scheme.
The post-conflict situation, September 1999 to February 2003
There are currently 62 families who have ownership rights to the paddy in Halicou. Of these, 26 are believed to still
be in West Timor in refugee camps, and 7 have moved to Zumalai, 12 to Hauba and 6 to Dili seeking business
opportunities. Apart from the refugees, those living away from the scheme are expected to return to plant at least
one crop in the wet season. In addition to these, farmers from the sub-district Atabai currently have user rights to the
land unused by the refugees. They are not required to pay a portion of the harvest to use this land, but are expected
to return it to the owners if and when they return. There are no problems with this system as long as the proper
authorities have been notified.
The irrigation works began in January 2002 and were completed in June 2002. The only paddy that was utilised since
1999 was 5 hectares which were planted in corn in June/July 2002. Farmer estimates of how much land can be
irrigated since the rehabilitation works were very sketchy, with some estimating that up to 450 hectares could be
irrigated, though not all this land was cleared yet to enable planting (some being covered in trees). Until now
ANNEX E Irrigation Scheme Case Studies



(February 2003) none of this land had been planted because farmers were still constructing secondary canals to join
up to the new intake (which had been repositioned) and since January, they had completed 2000 meters. Most of the
sedimentation in the primary canal has also been cleared away. The farmers planned to plant 444 hectares in the dry
season with assistance from 10 hand tractors from Ainaro and 1 large tractor from a local business which they hoped
to rent by paying in harvested paddy. (NB this was a hypothetical estimation assuming the water in the system would
be sufficient. It is contradicted below by the estimates of the WUA members).
Section 2. Results of the discussion with the WUA
Respondents
Approximately 26 members and representatives of the WUA board were present during the discussions. Only two of
those present were women.
Results of the discussion
The total amount of paddy the group thought they could plant this wet season (delayed due to the drought) was 100 -
250 hectares - providing the large tractor in the area did not break down and stay out of action for a prolonged
period. In addition, it was generally believed that the intake was not well located and would be subjected to
unacceptable levels of erosion and sedimentation, especially if there are heavy rains in the weeks to come.
Factors which are supporting planting include:
- there is an irrigation system with sufficient water
- there are tractors available as well as cows and buffalo
- there is a farmer's group / WUA.
The factors which are hampering increasing the number of hectares planted were prioritised by the WUA and the
results are presented in the following table in order of priority:
Problems affecting both January and May plantings
Problem and score               What can be done to address the problem    Who should be
responsible?
The intake is threatened by erosion  Make a permanent wall (beronjong) to protect the  MAFF
(9)                             intake
The river tnbutary fills with   1. Provide drainage to restrain the flooding in the river  MAFF
sedimentation (8)               tributary so it does not ruin the irrigation canal
2. Widen the river
The intake gate is not functioning (6)  1. Clean the existing sedimentation so it does not  Farmers and WUA board
damage the intake gate
No money / credit (to rent tractors) (6)  ?                                 Farmers themselves
depending on their harvest
Not yet any secondary canals (4)  Make them ourselves so that all available land can be  Farmers and MAFF
irrigated
Not enough rice seeds (4)       Try to find good quality seed in Maliana. Ask for  Farmers
information from crops in Maliana as well as the ASC
Not enough pesticide (4)        Look for assistance in provision of pesticide  MAFF
Too much sedimentation (2)      Clean the sedimentation                     Farmers and MAFF
The interview team inspected the irrigation system. The following are their observations of the situation in Halicou:
1. The threat of erosion hampering irrigation effort is high - especially near the intake. However most of the
sedimentation can be cleared by the WUA as long as their coordination is effective.
2. The intake gate location was not in accordance with the farmer's wishes and they are concerned it will be affected
by landslides. They have already prepared a beronjong, but it was swept away by the river following heavy rains.
ANNEX E Irrigation Scheme Case Studies



3. The tributary river is too narrow and following heavy rains, dumps mud and stones into the irrigation canal. The
course of the river is already threatened by the left hand foot of the mountain which will cause a landslide in heavy
rains.
4. Farmers complained that the contractor did not listen to their advice about placement of the intake so that the
threat of erosion is now unacceptable high. The farmers felt they knew best about the behaviour of the river and the
climate. They also complained that the irrigation works required a lot of funding compared to the works done on the
Nunura bridge in Indonesian times. They had expected the contractors to cement 500 meters of canal with the
available funds, but the contractors said earthen banks were sufficient and this was consistent with their contract.
Comparison of Estimates from the feasibility study
The feasibility study estimated that 345ha could be planted in the wet and dry season.
Section 3 The WUA
No formal WUAs were established under the Indonesian or Portuguese administrations. However farmers distributed
the water according to a traditional system of appointing a Waicabo (see above).
The section on questions about the WUA was not completed by the interviewers as heavy rain had started to fall and
they had to get back to the main road before flooding occurred and they were stranded in the suco. The interviewers
observed however that there appeared to be problems within the WUA, including a lack of experience in managing a
group and distributing water, so that they needed more time to trial their management system. The WUA consultants
will need to monitor this group closely to ensure that with the itinerant nature of the rice growing population, WUA
functions and responsibilities are carried out. The current planting season should be monitored as an indicator of
their capacity to manage the scheme and the WUA consultants should provided appropriate support in the
subsequent season.
Section 4 Knowledge of the ASCS
The farmers interviewed had heard of the term "ASC" but didn't know what it was. None of the group were members
and they had not used the services of the ASC since it was established. After explanation, they felt that the ASC
could assist them by providing improved rice seed varieties.
ANNEX E Irrigation Scheme Case Studies



ANNEX E Results of limited discussions with members of the Naktua, Tono and Oemathitu
irrigation schemes, Oecussi District
Respondents
A group meeting was held with representatives and board members of the three WUAs. Approximately 50 farmers
were present, and six of these were women. The results of the discussion are presented in the table in Annex F. The
following comments relate to the discussion on the group's experience to date with the WUAs.
Results of discussions on the WUAs
There were no formal WUAs here in Indonesian times, however a person was appointed to distribute water (on a
voluntary basis). They were selected following community discussions. This system did not function very well as
some farmers missed out on water. There were no sanctions in place for taking too much water.
Since our WUAs were founded (in September 2002) they have not really done anything yet. We received the tools for
maintenance works, but we have not had any office built in which to store them, so they are kept at individual
farmer's houses. We have had training in water allocation, but have not tried it yet because the rains were late this
year and rehabilitation of our systems were only finished in January. It is better if the whole community manages their
water resources. Before there was only one person appointed, now there are many people involved (through the
WUA) and we can share the responsibility. We do not foresee any problem motivating farmers to clean and maintain
the irrigation canals. We have always done it ourselves. However there is a problem with maintaining the intake. We
can't do it ourselves. We have to use an excavator. At the moment, we use the one from Korea (the Korean Peace
Keeping Force). We have to gather money to use it, but it is expensive now. Sometimes we clear out the canals, and
then they flood again and have to be excavated a second time. It costs us more than our harvest is worth.
The main problem we are facing as a group is that our members live a long way away and it is difficult for us to get
information to them about meetings etc. Also, if we are required to provide reports or information to the DIO, it is a
long way to the district town and transportation is difficult.
Women are involved in all aspects of rice production. Men tend to be more involved in the heavier work associated
with maintaining the irrigation canals. Women are represented by their husbands in the WUAs. As they are active in
all aspects of rice production, it is possible that more should be members of the WUAs and attend the meetings.
Main constraint to production
The three schemes have been planting here since 1999. The land was not all planted in the 2000 season because
many tractors, cows and buffalo were stolen and taken to West Timor. Before the irrigation works started, we were
planting all the available land. Our main production problem now is the cost of inputs such as fertiliser. The price has
increased to a level where we can no longer afford it. Tractor hire is also expensive. We want the DIO to provide the
two tractors they have at a price which is below that of the private owners. We use buffalo to supplement tractor use,
and for those with small landholdings, they use hoes if there is no other option. We have heard about the ASC in
Malaina. We want them to bring their trucks here after harvest time to but our rice. At the moment, we just use it to
exchange for other goods. We also want the ASC to provide us with affordable, good quality fertiliser which we would
pay for after harvest. At the moment, we don't have the money to buy it.
ANNEX E Irrgation Scheme Case Studies



ANNEX F TABLE OF IRRIGATION SCHEME POTENTIAL AND ACTUAL UTILISATION
Name of scheme      Halicou              Bilimau             Baedubu             Uaibati              Naktuka             Tono                Oemathitu
No of households    62                   239-400             450                 52                   223                 324                 244
Rehabilitation works  June 2002          June 2002           Sept 2002           June 2002            Dec 2002            Jan 2003            Jan 2003
completed:
No of ha irrigated
post rehabilitation
according to
feasibility study:
Wet season          345 hectares         350                 335                 60                   170                 260                 170
Dry season          345                  350                 335                 50                   120                 260                 80
Third season         -                                       140                                                                            .
No of ha irrigated
according to
farmers
Wet season          450                  228 - 300           380                 0                    145                 Did not know ha     Did not know ha
Tetumnanu Anak
Oemolo Naik
Oemolo Anak
Dry season          444                  70 (need to construct  380 (May/June is their  50 (depending on  45              All except Tono     Tetumnanu Naik
secondary channels)  major cropping/wet  water availability)                     Petun depending on  Oemolo Anak
season)                                                      water availability  (depending on water
availability)
Traditionally planted  Yes, but don't know  Yes, but only on  No. Planting is done  No                Yes, but only on 45ha  Yes, but according to  No, planting is done
two crops per year?  how many hectares   @50-70ha           in both seasons but                                           water availability  in both seasons but
not on the same land                                                             generally not on the
same land
No of ha planted
post rehabilitation
Dry season 2002     5ha com              8 families planted  50                  0                    45                  All available       All available
Wet season 2002V03  0* as of Feb 2003    0                   0                   0                    0                   0                   0
Planned planting
Wet season 2002/03   100 - 250 as long as  Just started cleaning  70 (GTZ assisted in  0              145 (just started to  All (just started to  All (ust started to
the big tractor does  irrigation channels.  hinng excavator to                   prepare land because  prepare land      prepare land
not break down      Plan to plant all (but  clear sediment from                  rains late)         because rains late)  because rains late)
maybe only enough   rest of prmary
tractors/buffalo for  channel at beginning
1 00ha)             February)
Dry season 2003     444 (but maybe only  70 (unless secondary  280               34                   45                  All available       All available
capacity to plant 100  channels are
ha)                 completed
ANNEX F Summary Table of Irrigation Scheme Case Studies



Reason for delay     Farmers had to      The farmers were not  None of this land is  While the         According to famners,  Land preparation  There appears to be
construct secondary  happy with the      ever cropped twice -  rehabilitation works  there is only enough  was delayed awaiting  some confusion over
canals and are still  irrigation works   rather 220 families  were finished in June,  water to irrgate 45ha  the completion of the  how many ha can be
clearing sediment    completed and       plant in May/June and  the intake gate has  in the dry season.  rehabilitation works.  irrigated in the dry
from the primary     refused to plant in the  205 in Jan/Mar on  only just been fixed                  It is not clear whether  season. The areas
canal. They expect   2002 dry season.    different areas of the  (eardy March).                        a dry season crop   irigated from a
to be finished in time  Planting has started  scheme. @200ha are  This system is spring                will be viable as the  single source were
to start land        late for those who  too muddy to cultivate  fed and because of                    wet season harvest  rotated according to
preparation in March.  can crop twice   in Jan/Mar and       the drought, there                        will be delayed.    the direction of the
Only 62 households   (70ha), but is on time  farmers fear the crops  was not enough                    There is not enough  king. Now farmers
have rights to this  according to those  will be destroyed by  water for a Jan/Mar                     water in the dry    are free to change
land, and 26 of these  who can't. The   flooding in May before  planting. They have                    season for the Tono  the rotation, they fear
are still in West   sediment has mostly  the harvest. Another  started preparing the                   Petun area to be    there will not be
Timor, leaving a     been cleared away,  100 ha are covered in  land since the rains                   irrigated.          enough water to go
relatively small labour  and they will be ready  sediment following the  have started.                                     round in either
force for the total  to start planting in  previous floods and                                                             season for all the
paddy area.          March.              cannot be cultivated.                                                             areas, and have not
Intake is problematic                    The rest of the silted                                                            yet tried to irrgate
because of erosion/  Availability of tractors  up canal has only just                                                      the whole area at
sedimentation threat  a major concem     been cleared with                                                                 once.
assistance from GTZ.
3 most important     - Threat of floods  - Not enough tractors  - Flooding (damages  - Not enough water to  N/A (but informally  N/A (but informally  N/A (but informally
factors hampering    damaging intake     - Not enough rice   intake and crops)    till the land        mentioned tractor,   mentioned tractor,  mentioned tractor,
rice production      - River tributary fills  seed/quality poor  - Intake fills with  - Tractor hire is  fertiliser and pesticide  fertiliser and  fertiliser and
with sedimentation   - Free ranging      sedimentation        expensive           costs as major       pesticide costs as  pesticide costs as
- Construction of the  animals enter paddy  -The river course  - Pest infestation (no  constraining factors)  major constraining  major constraining
intake unsatisfactory  (in dry season)   shifts               pesticide available)                     factors)            factors)
Use of inputs pre-   No fertiliser used  No fertiliser used   No fertiliser used.  No fertiliser used.  Both fertiliser and  Both fertiliser and  Both fertiliser and
1999                 Used tractors mostly  Used tractors mostly  Pesticide used.   Pesticide used.     pesticide used by    pesticide used by   pesticide used by
and some buffalo    and some buffalo     Used buffalo mostly  Used buffalo mostly  majority.           majority.           majority.
and limited tractors.  and limited tractors  Used tractors mostly  Used tractors mostly  Used tractors mostly
and some buffalo.   and some buffalo.    and some buffalo.
Not interested in    Not interested in   Cannot access        Cannot access       Hoes used on smaller  Hoes used on       Hoes used on
using fertiliser -  using fertiliser -   pesticide now        pesticide now       areas.               smaller areas.      smaller areas.
believe the land is  believe the land is
sufficiently fertile  sufficiently fertile  Not interested in  Not interested in   Fertiliser and      Fertiliser and      Fertiliser and
using fertiliser -   using fertiliser -   pesticide from West  pesticide from West  pesticide from West
believe the land is  believe the land is  Timor now too       Timor now too       Timor now too
sufficiently fertile  sufficiently fertile  expensive         expensive           expensive
Marketing of         Sell to local       Mostly for          Sold as much surplus  Mostly for home     Sold surplus to      Sold surplus to     Sold surplus to
surplus:             marketrelatives from  consumption        as they had to KUD  consumption but any  market in            market in           market in
Indonesian times     Maliana                                                      surplus sold to KUD  Kefamenanu, NTT      Kefamenanu, NTT     Kefamenanu, NTT
Post 1999            Maybe sell to ASC   Maybe sell to ASC    Don't know          Don't know           Hope Maliana ASC     Hope Maliana        Hope Maliana
can buy surplus      ASC can buy         ASC can buy
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __surplus  surplus
ANNEX F Summary Table of Irrigation Scheme Case Studies



Annex xx
Main Results of the Social Appraisal
East Timor: Third Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
1. Introduction
The Social Appraisal (SA) took place in February 2003 immediately following the Mid Term Review (MTR)
of ARP II. During the MTR, many recommendations for action were made based on a self-evaluation of the
quality of impact of activities on the farming community. These recommendations will be implemented
between February - December, and beyond this in selected components extended into ARP l1l. Outcomes
will need to be reviewed at the end of Phase II to further incorporate lessons learnt into ARP l1l. This SA
complements the social assessment study for ARP II, seeking to gain first-hand insights from the farmers
themselves concerning their relationship to agricultural services provided.
The main theme of the SA was to examine, in the context of existing ARP II components, how best MAFF
can identify and then meet the needs of the farming community, while at the same time contributing to
creating a culture of empowerment in which demands for services are articulated by farmers. The
methodology included a number of qualitative tools, including focus group discussions with a sample of
groups from a mixture of upland, coastal and lowland suco from the north and south (269 men and 125
women), development of detailed case studies of light to medium damaged irrigation schemes rehabilitated
under ARP I and 11, and interviews with key service providers.
This Annex summarises the results of the SA, and the complete report can be found in the project files (see
Annex xx)
2. Key Findings
The most appropriate village-based institutions which ARP Ill should focus on
The results of the SA support the current ARP II approach to flexibility in established suco-based groups for
NRM activity planning and implementation - assessing requirements for groupings on a suco by suco basis,
incorporating strong, traditional leadership support only where it is found to exist, while assisting new
community groups to increase self-reliance through increased decision making and funds management.
Where Implementation Teams had been established in pilot suco, the community were largely content with
their performance and nominated them as the most effective grouping to channel new agricultural activities
and funds through.
Non-pilot communities with no experience of managing external existence (except for CEP) were wary of
the involvement of the Conselho do Suco as a possible organization to plan and implement agricultural
activities. This seemed to largely be attributed to the fact that they are perceived to be integrally connected
to CEP and do not have a broader role in the community. Rather the non-pilot groups identified the Chefe
do Suco and the Chefe do Aldeia as the most trusted mechanism for receiving/administering grant funds.
How far this burden should fall to them however needs to be assessed in light of their existing administrative
roles and the desirability of establishing broad-based community groups responsible for their own
democratic decision-making. The Conselho do Katuas / Traditional leaders were also mention as being
important to decision making. Normally very active in making decisions surrounding land tenure, traditional
law and natural resource management ceremonies etc, they tend not to concern themselves with
'development' or modern governance issues, although they should be involved an advisory role to ensure
their support for activities.
ARP III Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003



A robust tradition of collective action in formally established, non-clan based 'farmers' groups appears to be
absent from Timorese farming communities and is perhaps a reflection of low input farming and the
relatively recent entry of most communities into the money economy. Where groups did or do exist, they
tend to be dependent on external support to provide them with a reason to identify as a group. This is
supported by the fact that the majority of the non-pilot suco thought that developing a new group to discuss
and implement a hypothetical new agricultural development and manage subsequent funding would be most
appropriate, and this is consistent with the ARP 11 approach.
More importantly, the Office of Administration and Local Government and Development (OALGD) is
undertaking a three month study of local governance issues and will make recommendations regarding an
appropriate structure and institutions from suco to District level. The suco structure that eventuates will need
to be acknowledged and examined by MAFF to determine whether ARP Ill NRM activities should be
planned and implemented by the new suco institutions. If they are thought to be appropriate, it will be
important that parallel structures are not established in competition, and that MAFF assists in overall
capacity building of the newly emerging suco structures. MAFF, in it's important role on the Technical and
Political Committees (during the drafting of the Autonomy Law) should consider the need for suco level
representation to assist in implementation of their broader programs, and their capacity building and support
should be a priority under ARP 111.
However if the new suco structures are not sufficiently well defined to be utilised as a vehicle for
implementing ARP Ill NRM activities, the existing method of establishing new groups trialed under ARP 11
appears to be appropriate. The identification of new groups and their members should be done in close
collaboration with the Chefe do Suco, Aldeia and Traditional Leaders. This should be done in a flexible
manner across suco, taking into account the existence and success of any farmer or other community
groupings that may form the basis for new NRM groups. What will be important is that all interested
community members are provided with quality information about the scope of the ARP NRM activities, and
are able to self-nominate if they are interested in participating. Suco government and traditional leaders
should be encouraged to motivate the poorest to become active members to minimise elite capture, rather
than nominate the most progressive/active farmers only (as may have been the case in ARP 11). The
establishment of equal quotas of men's, women's and mixed groups should be a priority for ARP III to
ensure women are given the chance to participate fully in these activities. This is likely to be well supported
by the community and has been demonstrated in ARP 11 and AETRDP Phase I as an effective way to
increase women's direct participation.
The difficulty of sustaining purpose-specific groups will be common to any institution in which the NRM
activity is located, i.e. they may only be sustained as long as the activity is funded. ARP Ill should
encourage groups to develop mechanisms for generating and collecting revenue from existing seed fund
activities (tree crops and fisheries) as a way of promoting continued funding and implementation of new
NRM activities. Plans for the maximum distribution of any profits/benefits arising from funded activities to the
entire suco population should be included as a pre-requisite for receiving funding to ensure benefits are
maximised.
The Autonomy Law will also likely address the issue of funds disbursement mechanisms, and ARP Ill
should consider these in developing a new grant agreement. Communities appear to embrace the idea of
the right to information, while the holders of money are keen to avoid suspicion of misappropriation. In the
interests of promoting self reliance, communities should be encouraged to develop their own plans for
ensuring transparency, following the broad principles developed under ARP 11. These should be endorsed
by group members as a prerequisite to receiving funding. Whilst some form of public display is likely to
remain appropriate, it will only serve it's intended function if communities are assisted in developing more
user-friendly formats for disposable public display, and this should be addressed in the remainder of ARP 11
ARP III Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                    2



and ARP 111. What is preferable however is that regular community meetings are held at which this
information is presented verbally for discussion and comment to all interested parties.
Best options for creating demand for services and effective service delivery.
The mostly keenly felt loss since independence was the services of the extension officers (PPLs). Their
most valued contributions to farmers were the introduction of new varieties to the suco and the
establishment of demonstration plots to introduce new technologies. There is a feeling that 'modern' farming
practices are the answer to production problems, as well as inputs such as improved seed, fertiliser and
pesticides, however farmers feel they have decreased access to these, as well as their face-to-face delivery.
In the absence of an effective and broad-based extension services, trained facilitators represent one of the
best ways to assist in creating farmer demand for services as well as bridging the communication gap
between the community and the DAO technical staff. It is extremely critical however that they receive
appropriate training and support to undertake their roles. Attempts to train MAFF staff in participatory
methodologies have largely been unsuccessful as they see their role as technical specialists and do not
have the time for extended participatory planning sessions. A desirable outcome from implementation of
ARP Ill would be to have the DAOs expand their permanent staffing levels to include ARP 11 facilitators who
would be permanently employed to create a community/technical staff interface. They could expand the
number of suco undertaking NRM activities supported by MAFF beyond ARP 111, as well as assist in creating
demand for other services provided through the district offices.
If this is not within MAFF's means, an alternative is to utilise the resources available at the sub-district level
to increase MAFF'S capacity for outreach. The OALGD is in the process of recruiting 60 Community
Development Officers to be based at the sub-district level. Their role is to stimulate development at the suco
level, and they will be provided with training to this end. As the vast majority will be based in rural areas,
their role of facilitating agricultural planning could be maximised by MAFF through provision of
supplementary training in NRM participatory planning and management of activities. A pilot training program
to equip the Community Development Officers with the required skills could then become part of ARP 111.
The sub-district officers and the District Development Offices should also be part of this process in
recognition of the important role of agriculture to the East Timorese economy.
Many local NGOs are now being supported by international NGOs such as Oxfam and Catholic Relief
Services, and organizations such as CARITAS are actively trying to establish stable, local NGOs through an
intensive process of capacity building. The extent to which effective NGOs are represented at the District
level should be assessed under ARP Ill and contracts for facilitation services considered on a per-district
basis (as an alternative to direct hiring of facilitators), with DAO staff providing technical inputs as required.
The form of the NGO contracts would need to be carefully negotiated to ensure that MAFF was satisfied
with the intended outcome, and that the NGOs were able to provide these services to an agreed level of
quality. NGOs would be encouraged to seek funding from other sources to maintain their relationship with
the NRM pilot suco and continue providing support to these and new suco beyond ARP Ill in partnership
with MAFF.
Under the remainder of ARP 11 and 111, facilitator training (whether contracted facilitators, Community
Development Officers, NGO facilitators, MAFF contracted facilitators) needs to be improved to develop an
effective, participatory planning methodology that takes into account a broader range of resource
management issues, including livestock management, improved cropping practices and integrated/natural
pest management etc. Activities should be based firmly on priority problems farming communities are
experiencing and MAFF should be encouraged to respond to these problems, once articulated, rather than
developing supply-driven programs.
ARP III Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                      3



issues surrounding the optimal use of lightlmedium damaged irrigation schemes assisted under
ARP land!)
Each irrigation scheme rehabilitated has a set of conditions, traditions and socio-political relations peculiar
to the way it functions. The reasons given for sub-optimal utilisation were complex and varied and were
often contradictory and confusing - particularly as farmers were largely being asked to estimate their future
plans for planting in an uncertain environment. An examination of pre-1999 arrangements for rice growing
was revealing both for the extent to which rice growing was subsidised and supported, and the uneven
adoption of inputs such as fertiliser and pesticides. Baedubu, one of the largest and most complex schemes,
was kept operational by the Indonesian government free of charge (de-silting the primary canal every year)
while Bilimau had assistance from an NGO and the local sub-district head to excavate the intake each year.
Neither of the two schemes in Viqueque or Maliana used fertiliser, and actively rejected it, believing their soil
was sufficiently fertile (perhaps because the majority is cropped only once a year). By contrast, the three
Oecussi schemes were largely responsible for the maintenance of their own schemes and were using
fertiliser and pesticide on a regular basis, with second cropping more widespread. Marketing patterns varied
as well. In Viqueque, all surplus produced was sold to the Farmer's Cooperative (KUD), in Oecussi, it was
sold in the market at Kefamenanu (West Timor), and in Bobonaro, it appeared to be mostly used for
household consumption, with some surplus sold to family members in Maliana. Planting a second crop on
the same land was not widespread, but was most common in Oecussi.
The respective levels of dependency appear to be reflected in the post-conflict production patterns, where
the three Oecussi schemes seem to have recovered quickest to pre-1999 production levels (at least in
terms of number of hectares planted), with planting experiencing minimal disruption. Those with major
government and NGO support on the other hand came to an almost complete standstill and were much
slower to overcome production problems (whether this is coincidentally an effect of the extent of the level of
damage they suffered is not known). The advent of the drought leading up to the 2002/2003 wet season has
further complicated the emerging pattern of usage, with farmers only now starting to prepare their land in
time for a March planting. This may mean the 2003 dry season planting will have to be delayed until August,
and the implications of the late wet season planting will need to be closely monitored before conclusions are
drawn regarding optimal usage patterns.
As actual capacity has not yet been tested post-rehabilitation in a 'normal' dry season, it is likely going to be
difficult to get farmers who are unaccustomed to planting a second crop to invest time and resources if they
are not convinced of sufficient water availability. Water aside, there are many other constraining factors
which farmers raised that compound their difficulties. These include: threat of flooding which causes
damage to intakes, including silting, damages crops and shifts the course of the river from the intake; lack of
water; longstanding division of water according to tradition; unsuitability of some areas for planting in both
seasons; unsatisfactory systems of water distribution; lack of / high cost of tractors; lack of buffalo or buffalo
unable to work in the dry season; lack of / poor quality rice seed; unavailability of other inputs and credit;
market uncertainty; difficulty in coordinating the community when only a minority plant in the dry season
and; a tradition of planting corn and subsistence tendencies. The interaction of price, assured markets, rce
as a preferred staple, the capacity to adequately store surplus for long periods, the reversion to corn as a
reliable staple post-1999, and the uncertainty surrounding the operation and maintenance of their irrigation
schemes is complex, and will take some time before a balance is struck between perceived benefits and
returns on labour investment.
Despite the myriad problems facing rice growers, the WUA board members in particular seemed committed
to the idea of WUAs as an appropriate vehicle for management of their water resources. All were well aware
of the burden of self reliance that had been placed upon them and the enormity of the responsibility. They
felt it was too early to comment on their capacity as they had not had a chance to test their Associations
during a planting season. Close monitoring will be required to ensure the WUAs are appropriate for the task
of managing their water resources equitably. This may include strengthening the supporting role of the
ARP Ill Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                    4



Chefe do Suco or sub-district head if the authority of the WUAs is not sufficient to organise voluntary
operation and maintenance works and ensure compliance with distribution quotas.
Problems relating to major repair work and measures such as river straightening and intake protection were
felt to be the responsibility of the government, as was assistance with marketing crops. The policy for
Operation and Maintenance should be reviewed and approved as quickly as possible to ensure that
sufficient budget is available for the government to honour its commitment. If any of the schemes suffer
significant damage in the next few planting seasons without a speedy response from the government, the
community may quickly become disillusioned with the concept of 'joint' responsibility while they are still
struggling to re-establish their economies.
Women were under-represented as members of WUAs, and while their importance to the production of rice
is acknowledged by men, the tradition of men representing the household in irrigation matters is strong.
Women are considered to be equally represented if their husbands are members, even though they may
never attend meetings or participate in decision making discussions. WUAs should be encouraged to
progressively include more interested women as members to maximise organisational capacity and skills
within the Associations. As women were not specifically invited to attend initial meetings to establish the
WUAs, a subsequent round of meetings to ascertain their desired level of involvement should be conducted
as part of ongoing support to WUA strengthening.
All schemes rehabilitated had not yet had a wet season since works were completed in which to measure
the total area cropped under theirpeak usage. This should at least indicate the availability of sufficient
ploughing capacity and inputs to be used as a benchmark for dry season planting, as well as the level of
willingness to plant rice in the post 1999 climate. The total number of hectares that can actually be irrigated
and are actually planted then needs to be accurately documented by MAFF to determine whether farmers
are maximising usage of the land and irrigation resources. Whilst the use of accurate GIS measurement is
preferable, unless it can be applied immediately following March/April planting, MAFF needs to develop an
accurate system of measurement which the WUAs can apply at the very least as a form of self-monitoring.
Are vaccination campaigns expectations being met by MAFF?
Farmer expectations that their animals will not get sick if they are vaccinated are largely being met through
the current vaccination campaigns. Where animals were reported to have died following vaccinations, it was
specifically stated that this was because they were sick already, and farmers seemed to understand that
vaccinations will not cure sick animals. What is promising is that all suco interviewed said they would
continue to have their animals vaccinated, and that they expected to increase the numbers vaccinated
during the next campaign - especially those animals currently free ranging.
The main reasons given why not all animals may be vaccinated in the suco were related to lack of clear
information or a meeting prior to the campaigns, and more importantly, the difficulty associated with gather
the,(free-ranging) animals from the hills. Subsequent campaigns should focus on targeting free-ranging
herds as farmers become more accustom to the annual event. This may require information about the timing
of the vaccinations reaching the suco at least one month in advance to enable the community to organise
holding pens and hold a coordinated cattle/pig drive. A majority of groups interviewed indicated that
vaccination was a service they would be prepared to consider paying a nominal amount for to continue
receiving the perceived benefits. The introduction of a fee for service at this point may be premature,
however the concept should be introduced gradually as part of future vaccination campaigns to maximise
cost recovery and ensure MAFF can continue to protect valuable economic and social assets.
The likelihood of VLWs being sustained by the community
In general, farmer's are somewhat fatalistic about animal illness, believing that once sick, it is better to kill
and eat the animal rather than attempt to save it with their limited knowledge and resources. The difficulty
ARP IIl Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                    5



people are experience in converting their animals to cash is possibly acting as a disincentive to treat them,
although the need to have significant buffer stocks of pigs in particular for ceremonial obligations appears to
be quite strong, and should provide motivation enough to invest in treatment for sick animals.
Although the first batch of VLWs have been selected, they have not been trained and equipped yet. As
such, it is difficult to judge how well they will be accepted and utilised by the farming community The VLW
program was not well known. Once it was explained to the groups, the majority indicated that they would
likely call a VLW to treat a sick animal, however this would depended on the cost and their ability to pay at
the time. All of the groups were very supportive of the idea of a VLW - the closer to the suco the better, and
all but one thought it was an appropriate role for a woman. Information dissemination will need to be
addressed in ARP 11 and 111, preferably through the next vaccination campaign where paid vaccinators could
provide information to those suco with a VLW trained and operating in their sub-district. The tendency to
select paid vaccinators to be trained as VLWs will need to be closely monitored to see if the combination of
free service provision (vaccinations) with a paid service (all other treatments) in the one provider acts as a
disincentive to service utilisation. The perception that the VLWs are government employees being paid a
wage will need to countered if they are expected to operate as private service providers. The subsequent
round of VLW selection should take this into account. In addition, the dependence on paid vaccinators may
be limiting the opportunity for women to take up these opportunities. Future VLW recruitment processes
should encourage a gender balance across districts to maximise women's participation in paid employment
opportunities and to ensure a focus on pigs and chickens as women's preferred livestock is maintained.
The most effective means of communicating information on sustainable farming productivity
There is an expressed desire to learn about 'new' and 'modern' farming methods, however these need to
build on the traditional practices that have been developed by Timorese farmers over centuries of low/no
input farming to ensure they are appropriate to local conditions. The challenge for MAFF is to develop such
information through interactive trials and demonstrations which result in proven technological innovations
suitable for East Timorese farming systems. The overwhelmingly preferred method of delivery is through
direct, practical demonstration, which enhances the adoption of new varieties and techniques for largely
illiterate farming populations. While it is acknowledge that MAFF faces problems with a shortage of human
resources to support this face-to-face delivery of technical training, direct extension as a means of effective
communication should not be left behind in the rush to develop alternative, less labour intensive solutions
which rely on radio and print media.
All MAFF divisions need to work more closely with farmers to develop and trial effective technologies to
increase agricultural sustainability and environmental management. Developing quality information of real
benefit to farmers is a pre-requisite for it's effective dissemination. Information Services need to focus more
on training DAO staff in effective training and information delivery which are accompanied by practical trial
and demonstration where relevant. Whilst radio and printed material have a role to play in disseminating
broad-based messages, they are no substitute for the delivery of practical information which farmers can
use. Obviously, the emphasis will need to be on quality rather than quantity as there are simply not enough
staff to go round, but this strategy may be more productive than a scatter-gun approach to disseminating
agricultural information of dubious relevance and little practical benefit. Farmer field days held jointly with
neighbouring villages which capitalise on pre-arranged activities (ie vaccination campaigns, WUA key
maintenance activities, ASC member meetings, market days etc) are vehicles which are currently
underused as opportunities for face-to-face communication of information and should become cornerstones
of MAFFs information strategy in ARP 111. In an effort to increase MAFF's capacity to provide face-to-face
information, the possibility of accessing other training/information providers such as NGOs and donor
programs should be explored to expand the options for face-to-face delivery of quality information. The use
of school teachers at the primary and secondary level also represents an under utilised medium for
promoting sustainable farming practices to the next generation.
ARP IIl Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                    6



What is the level of awareness of ASC services and are their unmet demands?
The level of awareness of the ASCs appears to be low, however any efforts at greater promotion should be
commensurate with the ASC's capacity to purchase / provide inputs for a larger number of farmers. Farmers
that had not heard of the ASCs (or had not had any dealings with them) had difficulty in conceptualising
what sort of services they might be able to provide for them. In Viqueque, as discussions were with rice
farmers, they were interested in their ASC expanding to provide rice-related inputs. Pesticide was
specifically mentioned, as this use to be provided by the KUDs at the sub-district level and was no longer
available for purchase. Oecussi farmers by contrast had heard of the ASCs and were keen for the Maliana
ASC to establish trading links to purchase their rice and provide subsidised or guaranteed quality fertiliser in
exchange for a portion of the harvest (if the rice cannot be sold). Further discussions with farmers need to
take place to determine other needs that the ASCs could accommodate by diversifying services no longer
available to farmers. The development of a further two ASCs under ARP II and IlIl should initiate broader
discussions with farmers about the types of services required and the best mechanisms to provide and pay
for them.
Social Safeguards
The activities likely to be continued from ARP II into ARP IlIl are small scale in nature, and with regard to
component 1 NRM activities, rely on a process of community discussion and decision making to decide on
the nature, location and beneficiaries of activities in a largely democratic manner. The revised operational
manual to guide their development should take into account the World Bank's social safeguard
requirements. The proposed works to rehabilitate a major irrigation scheme to be implemented under ARP
IlIl have been deferred. As such Operational Procedures 4.12 (Involuntary re-settlement), 4.20 (Indigenous
People, 11.03 (Cultural Property) and 7.60 (Projects in Disputed Areas) are not likely to apply to ARP 1ll.
Conclusion
In recognition that Timor Leste is an emerging country with social institutions and MAFF service delivery
mechanisms still in their early development phases, the ARP II Social Assessment recommended that
"assessment of 'social appropriateness' should become an integral, continuous part of the program, and one
that impacts on the way the program is implemented. The idea is to make certain that the assumptions
concerning appropriateness of inputs and effect of the outputs, were actually correct, and suggest changes
if they were not." This recommendation is supported. The MTR process has obviously been an appropriate
vehicle for the assessment of social (and other) appropriateness of the design and implementation of ARP
interventions. The recommendations from the MTR in January/February, if accepted and implemented, will
go some way in refining the inputs to maximise the benefits. These in turn will need to be monitored,
evaluated and incorporated into the implementation plans for ARP 1I1.
ARP iII Draft Social Appraisal Report, March 2003                                    7



