E798 v.3
November 15, 2003
Timor-Leste
Third Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (ARP 111)
Policy Guidelines for the Negotiations over the Use and
Development of Land for ARP Ill
Background
The Third Agriculture Rehabilitation Project aims to strengthen the capacity of the Ministry oi
Agnculture, Forestry and Fisheries (MAFF) to assist rural communities in increasing their production and
income in a sustainable way. The project was designed as a consolidation phasc, wvith an emphasis on
sustainabilit- of activitics, impact of achievements, and quality of outputs. The period of implementation
is January 1. 2004 -- December 30, 2007. The project contains the following Components
(Component I - Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management. will support
MAFF's main assistance program to upland and coastal communitics. It will promote improvcd self-
reliance and natural resources management to strengthen communities' resilicnce and make them less
vulnerable lo external shocks (such as periodic droughts and chronic food insecurity). It targets an
estioimated 50 villages in seven districts -- Dili, Lautem, Liquica, Manufahi, Covalima. Baucau, and
(ecussi
Component -2 Irrigation Rehabilitation and Management, will support MAFF's main assistance
program to farmers in lowland irrigated areas. The component will target about 4,000 rural families in all
13 districts. Activities include about 3,000 hectares of community rehabilitation of small irrigation
schemes and 150 km of rural access roads, and the rehabilitation of the Caraulun irrigation scheme in
Manufahi district.
Component 3 - Services to Farmers, would help institutionalize three basic MAFF scrv ices to fanners
lnlormation. Animal Health, and Agri-Business support. Sub-Components are as follows
*   Sub-Component 3.1. Information to Farmers, will increase MAFF's capacity to provide
information to farmers and enhance links with intemational agriculture research, pilot district
information networks and establish an agro-meteorological network.
*   Sub-Componient 3.2. Sustainable Animal Health Services, wvill target the estimated -567.000
rural people living in households which own livestock, providing vaccination and vetcrmar
services and establishing a network of Village Livestock Workers.
*   Sub-Component 3.3. Support to Agri-businesses, will strengthen MAFF's advisor) services to
rural producer organizations and assist farmers in grain production. priority nichie markets and
canidlenut and coconut oil production.
*   Componienit 4 - Program Management, will help MAFF to maniage the pro1cct, continue to
develop key national policies, and strengthcn the Ministry's managcrial and technical capacit,
(vncin the nalure ol this project, which involves community based planninig and implementation of small
3catc activities and rehabilitation of a large irrigation schcme (Caralaun). no advcrse impacts arc expected
ais a result of land use, However, some Project components may require land. The prcsent ARP Ill PolicN
(uidelincs have been prepared to guiide the preparation and implemienlitationi of Project com1ponienits
rcquinng land TIhese Policv Guidclincs are applicable for Lhc implementation of ARP Ill only and. b) no
mcans. shall it be considered national policy for all cases of land acquisition by the Statc Its obiccti c Is
Is No( 2003 Version                 p   ' li i                   , 1



to cnsurc that teIC usc or acquisition of land for Project-related activities does not icsult in loss of'
economic opportunity. It will be thc goal of thc Projcct to mninimisc anv economic andi physical
displaccment of pcople.
1hcsc guidelinies iniclude provisions for:
I  Voluntary donation of land, or land provided against compensation paid by community membcrs.
for Small Group Activities under Component I (Participatory Development and Natural Resource
Management) and community-owned irrigation schemes under Sub-Component 2. 1 (Communitv-
based Irrigation and Roads Rchabilitation); and
2   Involuntary acquisition of land for the rehabilitation of the major irrigationi schemlie under Sub-
Component 2.2 (Rehabilitation of the Caraulun irrigation schemc)
Tliesc Policy Guidelines are divided into two main parts. Part I includes provisions for (i) cnsurilg that
all participating communities under Project components I and 2.1 (option I above) arc made aware of
their rights relating to the provision of land as voluntary donation or as community based compensation.
(it) venfN that voluntary donations or communiity based arrangements for compenisatioii arc indeed
voluntar, and appropriate; (iii) verify that the donor is the legitimate owner/user of the land/assets (iv)
erify that the donor is fully informed of the nature of the project activity and the implications of donating
the property: and (v) provide an appropriate avenue for grievances.
l'art 11 includes provisions for land acquisition against compensation paid by the Government of i''mor-
Leste should any land acquisitiol by the State by required under the Project componenit 2.2
Key Definitions
Involuntarx Land Acquisition refers to the taking of land by govemment for public purpose against
compensation where the landowner must surrender their land involuitarily and has only the right to
negotiate and appeal the amount of compensation proposed. This includcs land or assets for which the
eo\wncr cn-jovs uncontested customary rights.
Land refers to agricultural and non-agricultural land and any structures thereon whether temporarn or
permanent and which is required for the Project.
Voluntary Land conitribution refers to a process by which an individual or communal owncr agrees to
provide land or property for project-related activities without compensation, or with community'-provided
compensation Voluntary contribution is an act of informed consent, made with the prior knowledge of'
other options available and their consequences, including the right not to donate nor transfer the land 11
must be obtained without undue coercion or duress.
Organizational Arrangements
(hcrall responsibility for the implementation of these Policy Guidelines lies with MAFF  MAFF ^xill
c nstire that the Policy Guidelines are appropriately disseminated and that project stalf have thc recluired
skills and receive appropriate training. The UJnit is responsible for proper monitoring of the Pohcy
(itiidclines and will incorporatc nceessary changes to the guidclincs and procedures hased oiu
icconinienidationis from moniitoring exercises anid wvith the World Banik prior agrecment
I ' No,, 2003 \Version



I'rojcc: tacilitators wnd tcchnicians xvill be trained and tasked to ensure that requireimienits and procedurcs
ol tic Policv Guidclines will be followed as prescribed.
PART 1: Voluntary Donation of Land
PART l.A: Project Component 1. Participatory Development and Natural Resource Management.
Guiding Principle
Where land is required for implementation of Participatory Development anid Natural Resource
Management activities, it must be provided voluntarily in accordance with the process specified belowx
No person wvill be involuntarily displaced by activities financed by Small Group Grants. Under no
circumstance will the Government of Timor-Leste acquire land for the purpose of implementing
activities funded by Small Group Grants, or be required to provide compensation to communitv members
ior land ulilised bv the community for the purpose of Component I activities. The Small Group Grants
can not be used for the purpose of providing compensation in cash or in-kind. These principles and the
following process are embodied in the Operational Manual for Component I
KeI' Additional Definitions
C ommunity Facilitator refers to project-contracted facilitators who have been contracted for the purpose
of assisting Small Groups to develop activities under the Project for financing by a Small Group Grant. It
ma\ also include MAFF field staff and field staff of the District Administration office following reviec\
at mid-tenm.
Small Groups refers to the groups based at the hamlet level (typically along kinship lines) forrmed to plan
and manage Natural Resource Management activities using Small Group Grant support under Component
I
Villauc Iimpelientationi Teamn refers to a team made up of elected representatives of the Small Groups
with overall responsibility for village-level management and monitoring of Small Group Grants.
1. Securing of Landfor Smalt Group Grant Activities
l.and mav be secured for use by community groups through:
a) Voluntary Land Contributions without Compensation: Individuals or comimiunity groups
ma! ccct to voluntaniv contribute individual or communal land without compensation for use bY the
Small (iroups for the Small Group activities:
b) Voluntary Land Contributions with Community-generated Conipensation: Where land
owners or communitv groups require payment of compensation to provide land for use by the Small
( iroLup lor Small Group activities, this compensation must be agreed between them and the .Small Group
meimibers (Smiall Group Grant funds caninot be used to pay for compensation in cash or in-khid nor omill
compensation be provided by the Government of Timor-Leste).
2. (Consultation, Infornmation Disclosure and Planning Proce.v
I ' No\ 2(003 Version



I'hc consultation. infomiationi disclosurc and planning process for Voluntar\ Land Contributions wvith and
without community-geiierated compensation will be as folloxvs:
a) At Lhe initial broad-based community meetings conducted as part of Lhe Education and
Infonnation Campaign, the Community Facilitators will inform the participating \illages
about the principles relating to the voluntary nature of land donations. the option fol
contributions of land with compensation resourced by tihe Small Group, the procedures ol'
Part I of the Policv Guidelines, and a brief descnrption of the grievance procedurcs and
mechanism. The fact that the Small Group Grants are not to be used to provide
comiipensation. whether in cash or in-kind, will be emphasised
b) As part of the proposal development process (defined in full in the Operational Manual for
Component 1), Community Facilitators and members of the Village Implementation Team
will facilitate a meeting with each Small Group to assist in the development of proposals
This will include determining the most appropriate location for the activity. The prnciples of
Part I of the Policy Guidelines will be reiterated by the Conmiunfity Facilitators prior to
commencement of Small Group discussions relating to the proposed activit
c   Proposed Small Group Activities, with the need for voluntary provision of land with or
without compensation, will need to include the following information in the Activity Plan
(proposal) which is submitted to the District Managcment Team:
I  For any voluntary contributions of individual land, a consent fonn wvhich includes the
name of the land donor/s, and details of the contribution (type. size, location, specified
period of use etc. as appropriate). This should be signed (or thumb-printed) by the land
donor/s (including the male and femalc heads of the household involved), the Leader of
the Small Group, the Chief of the Village and Chief of the Hamlet and the Leader of the
Council of Elders (or nominee). A sample consent form is inclided as Attachment A.
2   For land contributions against compensation, a consent fonn which includes the namc of
the land donor/s. details of the contribution (type, size, location, specified period of use
etc. as appropriate), and details of the agreed compensation arrangements. This should be
signed by the land donor/s  (including the niale and female household heads). a
nominated representative of the group providing the compensation, (e.g. the Leader of the
Small Group), the Chief of the Village, Chief of the Hamlet and the Leader of the
Cowicil of Elders (or nominee). A samnple consent form is included as Attacluncilt B.
Where the land donated is communal land, these forms can be signed on behalf of the
Small Group by the elected leader.
d) For Sniall Group Activities wherc land is donated or provided against compensation tile
District ImplemicintaLion Team will, during its appraisal of proposed activrities (i) verify with
the land donor/s that the donation is indeed made on a voluntarilv basis, that the donor/s is/are
the legitimatc owncr/user of'such lands, and that the land donor/s is/are f'ully inforned of the
n.tture ol' the activity and the implications of donating the property. (ii) assess that the land
donor does not stiffer a substantial loss affecting his/her economic viability as a result of' thc
arrangement Where there is substantial loss the activity cannot be approved as proposed (the
amount donated should usually not exceed 10%0 of his/hier lanid or assets witlout an
appropriate compensation), and (iii) assess that the compcnsation arrangements are
appropriate. 'rhe compensation should be roughly equivalent to traditional compensation
ailTanigenilents. Where demands are excessin e compensation inappropriate and the land donor
I ' Now 2003 (Veision -i



and the conmiunity cannot agree, the Commiluiity Facilitators will cncouragc altcrnaltic sites
or arrangements. The activity will not be approved tbr funding by a Small (iroup Grant until
suitable alternative sites tre idcntificd and land has becn voluntanlv made available tlirough
thc process described above. If no suitabic land is made available tirough the Voluntarx Land
C'oiitiibutioii  process  the  actlivity  would   not    be   fiurtlier  processed
c) In all cases of voluntary land contributionis, the Recipient shall furnishi copies of all tie dulh
signed consent forms to the Directoratc of Land and Propcrty of the Ministrv of Justice. Ior
reference and records purposes.
3. Complaints and Grievances
Thc Community Facilitators will be rcsponsible for ensuring that Small Group discussions during
proposal development -- in particular relating to voluntary donation of land - are transparent and
conducted in a fair manner. During proposal development, the following process for complaints and
grievances will be reiterated to commtnities and followed:
a   T'he District Imiiplenientation Team will invite and address any grievances during the verification
and appraisal process. If a suitable solution is not found, the District Implementation 'I'eam
cannot verify the consent forms and the proposal will not be submitted for assessment. The issue
will then go back to the community for discussion. The Small Groups and the Village
Implementation Team may request the assistance of the Suco and Aldeia Leaders and anv
relevant traditional leaders to mediate in the compensation process. The mediation process will bc
implemenited according to traditional methods of mediation/conflict resolutioni. The resolutionl
will then be documented on the relevant consent forms and verified following step 2 d above. If
no resolution is forthcoming, the district office of the Dircctorate of Land and Property may be
invited by the Recipient to assist in the mediation process. Until a resolution is arrived at, the
Small Group Activity plan will not be submitted for approval.
b   At their discretion, the National Management Team may eclect, as part of the overall proposal
assessment process, to re-confitrm any consent forms as required through a verification dialogue
process as defined above.
c   After a proposal has been completed and verified, the land donor/s as well as other members ol'
the community may raise any concems they may have with the District Implementation 'I'cam.
National Management Team, Suco and Aldeia Leaders, relevant traditional leaders or othe-
appropriate authoritics withini 30 days after the verification mecting. The resolution will then be
documented and the proposal and consent form changed, if needed, and verified by the Distnct
Implementation Team. If no resolution is forthcoming, the activilt plan will not be approved
4. Monitoring
DI)urinig activitv implementation, monitoring will be conducted by the Community Facilitators, the District
ImplementatLoil Team and the National Management Team. This will be integrated iinto the overall
monitoring of Small Group Grant activilties. Facilitators will be principally responsiblc for identifying
xi\ adversc outcomiles as a result of land donation. Where disputes occur- cither because in'ormed consent
has becn withdrawn or compensation agreements have been reneged on, any further Small (Group
(irant disbursement to the affected Small Group activitv will be postponed until such time as the dispute
bas becn rcsolved. If ncessarv, the Small Group can choosc to relocate the activitv which WoUld rcquirc
ihc rc-ncgotiationi ol' a consent lorm and vcrification as outlined abovc.
I >' No,, 2003 Ver sioin



Indicators xrl incluide
- thc number of Small Group Grant activities which have involved land donation:
- thc number of Small Group Grain activities whichi have involvcd provision of land against
compensation: and
- the number of grievances recorded, including those successfully mediated, and those unresolved
I-: Nov 2003 \Versioni



AFTTACHMENT A: Sample consent form
AGREEMENT TO APPROVE THE USE OF LAND FOR THE PURPOSE OF SMALL GROUP, SMALL
GROUP GRANT ACTIVITY IMPLEMENTATION
Date: _
I/We,                __male household head   ____         __female household head,
OR Small Group Leader    ___     __                           _-
Residentls of            ___Sub-district                 Suro_         __,_ AWeia,
dedare that I/We/the group is voluntarily donating the use of (specify land, assetts, location, size, type etc)
For the purpose of: (specify activity)
For the duration of (specify commencement date and duration)
Of My/Our own free will, I/We are waiving My/Our right to compensation of any kind for the specified
duration of the activity.
Signed:
Male household head -.     __             Female household head__    ___
ILeader of Small Group  ___   ________ Suco Chief__________       _
Aldeta Chief
l eadet   of   the    Council   of   Elders   (or    designate)
I R Ntop 2003 \Vcrsion



ATTACHMENT B: Sample consent form
AGREEMENT TO APPROVE THE USE OF LAND FOR THE PURPOSE OF SMALL GROUP SMALL
GROUP GRANT ACTIVITY IMPLEMENTATION FOR COMPENSATION
Dat:_
I/Wee,    _ __     _    male household head                   female household head,
OR Small Group Leader         ___                                  _     _       _
Resident/s of      _          Sub-district           _Suco_          ___     Akdeia,
dedare that I/Wetthe group are consenting to the use of (specify land, assets, location. type etc)
For the purpose of: (specify actvfty)
For the duration of: (specify commencement date and duration)
For the folbwing agreed compensation arrangements (NB, use the back of fonn if needed)
Signed:
Male household head    ___                Female household head
L.eader of Small Group  ___   ___        Suco Chief  _____        _-
Aldera Ghiel
lIeader of the Council of Elders (or designate)__ _ ___-  ..
I  Now 2003 VersionX



PART I.B: Project Component 2.1 Community Irrigation and Roads Rlehabilitation
(;uiding Principle
Component 2 focuses on the rehabilitation of existing roads and irrigation works proposed and
done by communities and is, therefore. not expected to involve land acquisition or resettlemeilt
'I'hc specific requirements for Community Schemes (under Activitv 2.1). not rqguirinom
Involuntary Land Acquisition. arc set out below. These principles and the following process are
embodied in the Operational Manual for Community-based irrigation rehabilitation.
Key Additional Definitions
Commumtty Contractor refers to the nominated manager of the communily contract for
infrastructire rehabilitatiorn and the community liaison point with MAFF
Water User Association (WUA) refcrs to a collection of rice farmers sharing a common irrigation
scheme who are responsible for the management and miinor maintenianice of that scheme.
1. Securing of Land or Other Assets for Communitj Contracts
For rehabilitation of community irrigation and roads land may be secured ror use by comnmiunit"
groups through.
a) Voluntary Land Contributions without Compensation: hidividuals or communitl
groups may elect to voluntarily contribute individual or communal land or assets without
compcnsation:
b) Voluntary Land Contributions with Community-generated Compensation:
Where individuals or community groups are not willing to donate land and require compensation
for providing land, thev will be eligible to be provided with compensation in an amount and form
agreed to and provided by the participating community or Water User Association.  lie
communitv contract funds can not be used for the purpose of providing conipensationv whether in
cash or in-kind, nor will the Government of Timor-Leste providc compensation
2. Consultation and Information Disclosure Process
[lhe consultation, information disclosure and planning process for Voluntary Land Contributions
with or w ithout community-generated compensation for community activities wvill be as follows
a ) The principles relating to the voluntary nature of land or property donations as a lonm
of community contribution to the rehabilitation works, as well as the option lor
contributions against community compensation will be disclosed by District
Irrigation Officers. This will be done during the process of soliciting/preliminar)
checks of proposals (see Operational Manual for Conuinunitv Irrigationi/Road
Rehabilitation). The fact that the infrastructure contract funds are not to be used to
provide cash or in-kind compensation will bc emphasised.
hI   Once Lhc preliminary sciecLion of schemes to be lunded by the project has been
conduicted by the Central Irrigation Team, the District Irrigation Officers will facilitate a
niceting with all potentially affected landholders to assist in the dcvelopment oi agremnents
1i' Now 20(03 Version9



to maiataini the completed "vorks (all benet'iciaries) and, if needed, ilie preparation of consent
lormis The principles of these Policy Guidelines as they relate to Activity 2.1 wvill be
rcitcrated bv the District irrigation Officer as a preface to discussing commimilitv
conitributionis and location of the reilabilitationi works. 'h'lic District Irnigatioll Officer \IlI
assist in facilitating discussions, but will not make amn decisions on behalfof the communitv
c) Proposed Community Schemes, wvith volwitary donations of land or provision oF land
Withi community-generated compensation, will need to include the following inl'ormation In
the proposal:
I. For voluntary contributions of individual land or property. a consent form which includes
the name of the land donor/s, and details of the contribution (type, size, location.
specified period ol' use, etc. as appropriate to the type of donation). This should be
signed by the land donor/s (including the male and female household heads). tie
Community Contractor (or community represcntative), and witncssed by the Chief' of
the Village and Chief of the Hamlet and the Leader of the Council of Elders (or
nominee). A sample consent fonm is included as Attacluhent C
For land or property contributions with communitv-gencrated compensation. a consent
fomi which includes the name of the land donor/s, details of the contribution (type.
size. location, etc. as appropriate to the type of donation) and details of the
compensation arrangcments agreed. This should be signed by the land donor/s
(incliuding the male and female household heads), a nominated representative of the
community group providing the compensation, (e.g. the appointed Commurnitv
Contractor), and witnessed by the Chief of the Village, Chiel'of the Hamlet and the
Leader of the Council of Elders (or nominee). A sample consent form wvhich can be
modified for each individual requiremcnt is included as Attachment D.
d) For Conununity Schemes where land is donated or provided wvith commnunit) -
generated compensation, the Central Irrigation Team will, during its appraisal of
proposed activities, as the case may be: (i) verify with the land donor/s that the
donation is indeed made on a voluntarily basis, that the land donor/s is/arc thc
legitimate owner/user of such lands, and that the donor/s is/are l'ully informed ol' thc
nature ol' the work-s and the implications of donating the land; (ii) assess that the land
donor does not suffer a substantial loss affecting his/her economiiic viability as a result
of the arrangemcnt. Where there is substantial loss the works cannot be approved as
proposed (thc amount donated should usually not cxceed 10% of' his/her land oi
assets without an appropriate compensation); and (iii) assess that the compeisation
arrangements are appropriatc. The compensation should bc roughly equivalent to
traditional  compensation  arrangements.  Where   demands   are  excessive.
compensation inappropriatc and the conmunwity canunot agree. the Comnuunit\
Contractors   vill    encourage    alternative  sites   or    arrangements
c I In all cases of voluntary land contributions, the Recipient shall furinish copics of all
the duiy signed consent forms to the Directorate of Land and Propert\ ol' the Ministr\
ol'Juslice. for reference and records pturposcs.
I No'    ( 2003) Version                                                          I 0



3. (Complaints and Grievances
Fhc District Irrigation Officers will be responsible for ensuring that discussions durinig Lhc
loninulationi of agreements relating to voluntary donationi of land and community-genlerated
compensation are transparent and conducted in a fair manner. Once proposals arc submitted.
including thc relevant forms agreeing to consent for voluntary donation and /or compensation thle
follo%vwing process for complaints and grievances is in elTect and reiterated to comiuiitiilities:
a) Any grievances should be invited ind addressed during the verification and appraisal
process. If a suitable solutioni is not found, the Central irrigation Team canuiot verify the
consent forms and the proposal will not be accepted for funding. The issue will then go back
to the community for discussion. The village may ask the assistance of the Suco and Aldeia
Leaders and any relevant traditional leaders to mediate in the compensation process. The
mediation process will be implemcnted according to traditional methods of mediation/coniflict
resolution. The resolution will then be documented on the relevant consent forms and verified
following step 2.d above. If nlo resolution is forthcoming, the district office of thle Directorate
of Land and Property may be invited by the Recipient to assist in the mediation process. Until
a resolution is arrived at, the work proposal will not be submitted for approv'al.
b) Aller a proposal has been completed and verified, the land donor/s as well as other
members of the community may raise any concems they may have with the District
Irrigation Officers. Suco and Aldeia Leaders, relevant traditional leaders or other
appropriate authorities within 30 days after the verification meeting. The resolution will
then be documented and the proposal and consent fomn changed, if needed. and verified
by the Central Irrigation Team. If no resolution is forthcoming, the proposal will not be
approved.
4. Monitoring
)uring activity implementation, monitoring will be conducted by the Central Irrigation Team and
the District Irrigation Officers. This will be integrated into the overall monitoring of communit\
rehabilitation works. District Irrigation Officers will be principally responsible for identifying an)
adversc outcomes as a result of land donation. Where disputes occur. either becausc informed
consent has been withdrawn or compensation agreements have been reneged on. any' furher
disbursement will be postponed until such time as the dispute has been resolved. If necessary. the
\illagc can choose to re-negotiate a consent formi and verification will bc required as outlined
abo e
indicators will include:
* die number of community contracts which have involved land donation.
- the number of community contracts which have involved provision of land against
compensation:
and
tlhe number of grievances recorded, including those successfully mediated, and thosc
unresolved.
I ' Nov 2003 Version                                                            II



ATTACHMENT C: Sample consent form
AGREEMENT TO APPROVE THE USE OF LAND OR OTHER ASSETS FOR THE PURPOSE OF
COMMUNITY CONTRACTS FOR INFRUSTRUCTURE REHABILITATION
Date.:     _  _   __  _   _
I/We,__ __         ___male household head                     -female household head,
OR Community contractor__  _.....__
Resident/sof       A_ _Subistrict                       Suo     _  _   _    ,Adeia,
dedare that l/We/the group is voluntarily donating the use of (specify land, assetts, location, size, type etc)
For the purpose of: (specify activity)
For the duration of: (specify commencement date and duration)
Of My/Our own free will, I/We are waiving My/Our right to compensation of any kind for the specified
duration of the activity.
Signed:
Male household head__         __          Female household head___
Community Contractor-, __ _           Suco Chif    _
Aldeia Chief .. 
I eader of the Council of Elders (or designate)_- - _  ___
1- No ' 2003 VersionI



ATTACHMENT D: Sample consent form
AGREEMENT TO APPROVE THE USE OF LAND OR OTHER ASSETS FOR THE PURPOSE OF
INFRUSTRUCTURE REHABILITATION FOR COMPENSATION
Date:
I/We, _   _    .        male household head               female household head,
OR Community Contractor_                         __                      __
Resident/s of ___            Sub-district_              Suco_          _  , Akdeia,
dedare that INWe/the group are consenting to the use of (specify land, assets, location. type etc)
For the purpose of: (specify activity)
For the duration of: (specify commencement date and duration)
For the following agreed compensation arrangements (NB, use back of form if needed):
Signed:
Male household head               __       Female household head__.__
Community Contract___     __     _  Suco Chief___
Aldeia Chief
L eader ot the Council of Elders (or designate).__ . -____._
I >' Now' 2003 Version                                                                  '



PART I: Involuntary Land Acquisition
Land or other assets relating to the rehabilitation of roads and cxistiig hacd wvorks. priinIar\.
secondar\ or tertiary canals and land or othel- assets relating to thc expansion of existing poimarn.
secondarv or tertiary canals, or the creation of new canals and otlier irrigtation-related facilities if
flotiind to be requircd dunng field investigations, and which would require involuntary land acquisition
hv thc Govcmnment of Timor-Leste. may be secured through the provisions of thcsc Polic\
Guidelines
lliesc provisions relate to Componenit 2.2 Rehabilitationi of the Caraulu1n Irrigation Scheme. ald \vill
bc included in the tender documcnts for the supervision of the Caraulun Rehabilitation Contract.
rhe\ do not relate to Component I Participatory Development and Natural Resource Management.
nor to Component 2.1 Cominiunity-Based Irrigation and Roads Rehabilitation.
For tcrtiary canals under Component 2.2 that arc proposed and implemented by communities the
provisionis in Part l.B of these Policy Guidelines apply as they will thus be provided for unider a
Communitf Contract arrangement.
Key Additional Definitions
Compensation refers to payment in cash or in kind of the replacement cost of thc acquired land
Displaced Person refers to persons who are affected by the involuntary taking of land resulting in (i)
relocation or loss of shelter. (ii) loss of assets or access to assets, or (iii) loss of income sources or
mcans of livelihood. whether or not the affected persons must move to another location.
Replacement Cost refers to the principle of valuation used to determine appropriate compensation for
lost land or other assets. . For agricultural land, it is the pre-project or pre-displaccment, whichever is
higher. market value of land of equal productive potential or use located in the vicinity of the affected
lanud. plus the cost of preparing the land to levels similar to those of the affected land. plus the cost of
an! registration and transfer taxes. For houses and other structures, it is the market cost of the
matenals to build replacement structure, plus the cost of any registration and transfer taxes. In
detemi-niniig the replacement cost, depreciation of the asset and the value of salvage materials are not
taken into account. nor is the value of benefits to be derived from the project.
Section 1. General Policy. The objective is to ensure that persons displaced cithier physicall) or
cconomically by the Project maintain their livelihood. It shall be the goal of the Recipient to minimize
the physical and economic displacement of persons as a result of the impliementationi of the project.
pro% ided. however, when the involuntary acquisition of land is required, the Recipienit shall utilize
available land administcred by the Recipient and which the com-munity is not using. Only as a last
rcsort shall the Recipient acquire land through involuntary acquisition following the below provisions
I     I'hei-c shall be no involunitary lanid acquisition of land anid other- assets and resettlemenit of
people, unlcss absolutcly necessary. In particular, acquisition of sitcs of spiritual or cultural
significance shall be avoidcd.
I .'  It such involuntary land acquisition is absolutely necessary then it shall be minmiinzed to the
grcatest extent possible.
I    Plans for involuntary acquisition of land and other assets and provision of rehabilitation
mcasures will be car-ried out in consultationi withi the Displaced Personis. to enIsuL-c iniiiimal
disturbancc.
I -I  Thc Displaccd Pcrsons will participate throughout the varotis stagcs of the planning and(
uiplelietationi of the Rcscttlement Plans. For these purposes and prior to the prepaiation of
the Resettlement Plans, the Displaccd Persons, will be informed of the provisions ol these
Polic (iuldelines and their entitleinents at public mncetings held by the Rccipicnt
I i No\ 2003 Version                                                                      I i



Seci ion 2. Resettlenient Instr-unent
I    A deteniminationl shall be inade by the Recip eent whiether thiere are arny Displaced Persons
22if there are nio Displaced Personis, the Recipeient sliall provide a wvritten tAztenient to this
effect to the Trustee.
23lIFthiere are Displaced Personis. a Resettlemnent Plan, or ani Abbreviated Resettlemenclt Planl.
will be prepared by the Recipient in accordance with the Provisionis of thecse PolicY
Guidelinies anid the World Bank policy on lnvoluntaTy Resettlemcent. OP/B.P 4 12
Section 3. Entitlemients Policy
The calculation of compensation payable to Displaced Personls shall be based on principles of
sustaniiable development and ensure, in accordanice with these Policy Guidelines, the miainteniance of
the physical and economic livelihood of Displaced Persons. For purposes of' determnining possible
cligibilitx to compensation, the project activities will be announced to potentially Displaced Persons
anid ai cenisus vvill be coniducted. Thie date of the cenisus wvill be the cut-off-date for eligibilit\
Section 4. Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
4 1    Imiplemientationi of the Resettlement Plan, or Abbreviated Resettlemnent Plan as the case rnai
be. shall be subject to monitoring and evaluation by MLAFF, with the assistance of the
Directorate of Land and Property as appropriate, for the purpose of verifyinig that'
4 I 1  The uifomiationi required in the Resettlemient Plan has beeni satisfactorily provided
4 1 2  T'he Provision of compensation, resettlement and other rehabilitation entitlement ha-s been
carried out in accordance wvith the provisions of these Policy, Guidelines and the respective
Resettlement Plan.
I 1 3,  [he funids for imlplemienting these Policy Giuideljines hiave beeni provided in the necessar'\
amounts and in a timely manner and have been used in accordance wvithi the Resettlement
Plan as designed and approved.
4 1 4  linformation relevant to the resolution of grievances and complaints in accordanice m~th
Section 5 of these Policy Guidelines has been provided to Displaced Persons
42     At thie request of the Trustee, onie or m-iore indepenidenit agenicies acceptable to thle T1rustec
shall be retainied from time to time by MAFF. in accordance with terms of referenicc approved
b\ the T1r-usteec, to monitor- anid evaluate the implenmentationi of the Rescttlemient Plans.
An\ furthecr im-plemientation reports shall be furniished by, MAFF to the I rustee uponi it,,
req uCSt
RNo\ 20t3) Ver-sifon 



Section 5. (omplaints and Crievances
i I    MAFF shall alppoint a Gricvancc Officer who shall receive complaints and gnevances related
to any aspect of the application of these Policy Guidelincs. Thle Grievancc Officer shall bc
the Head of the MAFF Division of Forestry. or a person designated bv MAFF as thc
(Gricvanice Officecr
i2 5   MAFF shall iifomi the Displaced Persons of the rght to bring complaints, tIhe process foI
making a complaint, the identity of the Grievanice Officer and how to contact thcn
i' 3   The Grievance Officer shall receive grievances in the first instaico A rcport of WIN
complaints or grievances received and any action taken to addrcss that grievance shall be
forwarded by the Grievancc Officer to MAFF.
s 4    Displaced Persons shall have standing to enforce any aspect of these Policy Guidelines that is
to their benefit in relevant dispute resolution mechanism or a competent court. Thc Recipicnt
accepts the paymncit of all administrative and legal costs for complaints or grievance upield
b\ such court.
Section 6. Acknowledgements
e I    These Policy Guidelincs do not replace any rights that Displaced Persons have tinder the law s
applicable in Timor-Leste or other requirements under the laws that mIust be observcd in thc
implementation of the Project.
'      Final verification of rights in land and buildings in Timor-Leste may not be presently possiblc
by the Recipient and compensation may be based on an assessment of likcly rights
Section 7. Institutional Arrangements
7 1 It is recognized that the Directorate of Land Property is the govenmment officc legallx
responisible for land and property issues in Timor-Leste. As such., it shall have formal
participation in all involuntary land acquisition processes for the Project. in coordination with
the Ministry of Agriculture. Forcstry and Fisheries.
7 2 All decisions related to involuntary land acquisition for this Project shall be jointly approved
bv the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries.
7 2 An\ funds required for compcnsation in this regard shall be the rcsponsibilit\r of tile Ministrx
of Agriculture, Forcstry anid Fisheries, unless otherwisc agreed.
I N0   Ol)(O' V\ersiol                                                               I



PRO(EDIURES FOR TIIE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE POLICY CUIDELINES, IPART II
The procedures sct forth bclow shall be utilized by the Rccipicnt in ilic niplementation of-
thiesc Pohc% Guidclines, of which these procedures are an initegral part.
I  Resettlement Instrument. If there are Displaced Persons, an Abbreviated Resettlemilet Plan
\\ill be prepared by MAFF in accordance -with the: provisions of thicsc Policy Guidelinles. and
will consist of the following:
1 1.2  The numnbers, names anid addresses of Displaced Personis
I .1.3  The loss suffered by each person and / or household as detemiilied on the basis of
the following criteria:
I .1.3.1 Thc number, type, and area of the houses and structures lost.
1.1.3.2 The number and type of any other fixed assets lost.
I.1 3 3 The number and area of the all the residential land lost
1. .3.4 The number, category and area of agricultural or grazing land lost.
I 1 3.5 The quantity and types of crops and trees lost.
I .13.6 A description of and value of lost business.
1.1.3.7 Identification of sites of spiritual and cultural significance and a description
of that significance (if appropriate; if not, a statement of the reason why this
is not appropriate).
I 1 4  Detailed compensation, rehabilitation anud relocation arranigements for cacih
Displaced Person as determined in accordance with the cntitlemilent policy in
Section 3 above, including:
1.1.4.1 Any cash arnounts payable.
I .1.4.2 The location, area, value, and description of any replacement land.
I 1.4.3 Evidence of the informed agreement by the Displaced Person
1. 1 ..4 In the case of partial loss, a percentage figure for the portion of total
productive assets lost.
I I 5  The intended sources of funding for the vanous Abbreviated Resettiement Plan
activitics, including compensation and rehabilitation measures will be clearly
specified in cost tables.
I 6    A detailed inplementation schedule in accordance with Sectioll 3 below\
1  7  In the case that the total number of Displaced Persons affected bv the Proicct
cxceeds 200, a full Resettlement Plan will be prepared, including a detailed socio-
economic survey of all Displaced Persons describing their age. sex. ethnicit\.
education, occupation, sources of income, and total houschold inconic shall bc
prepared by MAFF (see World Banik Policy on Involuntary Rcscttlement. OP/BI'
4.12 for further guidance).
2.     Entitlements. The calculation of compensation payable to Displaced Persons shall he based
on thc `l1lowing principles, including with respect to:
I.and oi- premises wholly affected.
I    1louses. structurcs and fixcd assets, cash compensation shall bc at full rcplaccincill
cost of the structures, without deduction for depreciation. An\ salvagc matcrnals
remaining become the property of the Rccipient after the Full payment and ma\ hc
I " \\ 200)' Versio(n1                                                                I



disposed in any manner it deems appropriate in accordance with existing govcrnimlei
rules and rcgulations.
2' '   Residenitial. agricultural or grazing lanud, includinlg premises. a choice shall be gi e
to Displaced Pcrsons of replacement land or cash, wvhere
2 2 I  Replacement land shall be acceptable to the Displaced Person and shall take into
account sizc. productive capacity, financial value, be located as close as possible
to the land that was lost and be othernvise satisfactorv to the Displaced Person
C'ash compensationi shall be at full replacement cost. without deductioni foi
depreciation. Any salvage matefials remaining becomc the property otf the
Recipient after the full payment and may be disposed in any manner it decilms
appropnate in accordance with existing government rules and regulationis
2 2.   (Crops and trecs: Cash compensation  shall be given for standing crops. fniii.
industrial tress anid productivc trees at replacemenlt cost
2 .2 4 Sites of spintual or cultural significance: the Recipient shall negotiatc appropriatc
compensation to Displaced Persons for interference wvith or destruction of suci
sitcs
Land or premiiises partially affected:
.3 I   If the portion of the land to be lost represents 20% or less of the total productive area
of the landholding, and the remaining land is still a viable economic holding, a choicc
on the lorm of compensation must be given to the Displaced Person betvecil
replaceimient lanid (of equal productive value and acceptable to the Displaced Personl)
arnd cash compensation for the lost land, at full replacement cost
2     If more than 20% of the productive area of a parcel of land is acquired aid tlie
rcmaining holding is not viable, then, with the consent of the Displaced Person. the
entire landholding shall be acquired. A choice on the formn of compensation shall bc
given to the Displaced Pcrson between replacement lanid (of equal productive *aluc
and acceptable to the Displaced Person) and cash compensation at full replacemeilt
cost as described in the section 3.1 abovc conceming land whol]k affected
4   Land or premises temporanrly taken (or unable to be used due to works under the Proe1cci
shall be compensated for:
4 1    Loss of incomile, including the cost of altemative premises.
4.2    Damage to productive assets. standing crops. infrastnicture and shall inclUdc ihc cost
of soil and habitat restoration.
' Othcr entitlements.
5 I    AlloNarices sufficient to cover the cost of transfer anid subsistence until the Displaccd
Persons are reestablished in their new location.
; '    Such other financial and physical resourccs for resettlemeint and rehabilitationn
available as mav' be reasonablv required by the Displaced Persons.
I Nov 200(3 Version                                                                   Is



Section 3. I mplenientation Schedule
TIhc following tiineframes shall apply unless othervise agreed bctwenci the I'ristcc and
the Recipicnt. provided, however, no suclh agreemelit to w-aive the timeframes shall adversel\. aftfeci
the riuhts or intcrests of Displaced Persons under these Policy Guidelines]
I     Ihe inventory shall be completed at least four months prior to the comiimeniccmienit
of work
'2    TIhe Abbreviated Resettlement Plan shall be submitted to the  I rustc for its
approval.
3    Compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation activitics Nvill only commenice atter-
the Trustee has accepted the Abbreviated Resettlement Plan
.4    The compenisation. resettlement and rehabilitationl activities, if an\ \\ill b.
completcd at least one month prior to the commencement of work
< 5    The provision of such further information as required by the Trustee in Sectioi
I 4 shall be sub ject to such timeframes as may be specified by the Trustce
I > Nov 2003w Version                                                                 I



