E-798 V. I
August 2003
Democratic Republic of Timor-Lest
THIRD AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Draft Environmental Analysis
A. Introduction
ARP IIl was designed primarily as a continuation and consolidation phase of ARP I. Therefore no new
activities that could have potential environmental impacts are anticipated.
The project will finance four major components: Participatory Development and Natural Resources
Management, Irrigation Rehabilitation and Development, Services to Farmers, and Program Management.
Project components with potential for environmental impacts are mainly found in the Participatory
Development and NRM and Irrigation components. As such, these components form the focus of the
environmental analysis. Other activities - information to farmers, re-establishment of an agro-
meteorological network, sustainable animal health services, agri-business support, policy development
and training - are not expected to have significant environmental impacts.
During pre-appraisal, IDA reviewed lessons learned with'environmental procedures adopted during ARP
11 to determine the degree of impact and assist MAFF in revising the procedures according to past
experience. This environmental review took place on June 4-18, 2003, and involved field visits to the
districts of Lautem, Manufahi Bobonaro, and Baucau. Discussions were also held with MAFF staff and
officials from the Division of Environment.
This Annex outlines the environmental safeguards of the overall project, based on lessons of experience
from ARP 11. The Annex will also serve as a guideline to ensure that the relevant Operational Policies are
followed should any negative environmental impacts occur.
The environmental review concluded that the project would not entail any major significant, complex or
irreversible environmental impacts. NQ works would be undertaken that could affect protected or
vulnerable ecosystems. The project has therefore been classified as Environmental Category B.
The project is expected to result in environmental benefits from improved natural resources management.
MAFF will follow the environmental mitigation measures recommended in this anralysis and monitor their
compliance by including them into operational manuals for the respective components and in the terms of
reference of engineering supervision consultants (for the major irrigation works in Caraulun).
B. InstItullonal Context
Timor-Leste's environmental review procedures were formulated recently and are generally consistent
with the World Bank and European Commission criteria. These procedures will form the framework for
the project's approach to environmental management. Even though ARP Ill activities are expected to
have no major adverse effects, MAFF will institute screening and reviewing procedures to ensure that any
emerging problems are discussed and corrected in a timely manner.
There have been recent improvements in the institutional framework of the Division of Environment. A
new environmental regulation similar to the Indonesian Environmental Management Act No. 23/1997 has
been drafted and is expected to be approved by the Secretary of State for Development and Environment
RLE COP9Y



at the end of 2003. Several Indonesian laws and regulations are still applicable, including Regulation on
Analysis of Environmental Impacts No 27 of 1999; Regulation on Hazardous and Toxic Waste
Management No 85 of 1999; and Regulation Concerning the Control of Water Pollution No 20 of 1990.
In ARP II, MAFF undertook the initial environmental screening of village projects (under Component I)
and irrigation schemes. The screening criteria was derived from that followed by the Community
Empowerment Project and originally from Indonesian environmental screening criteria, adapted to the
environmental context of Timor-Leste. Similar criteria will be included in the Operational Manuals for
the two components.
MAFF, in close collaboration with the Division of Environment, will be responsible for supervising the
implementation of environmental management and monitoring procedures. The biannual project progress
reports will include a summary of any environmental issues encountered and proposed measures. MAFF
will provide a copy of the progress reports to the Division of Environment. As part of the final project
evaluation, a summary of the monitoring and environmental measures, as well as impact will be included
in the project Implementation Completion Report.
C. Environnwtal Aspects
Component 1: Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management
This component was designed as a continuation of a similar component under ARP II. The environmental
analysis focused on the revised positive list of village projects, as well as actual projects under
implementation in ARP II pilot villages. The review concluded that due to their small scale, the
environmental impact of village projects in the short-term is not expected to be significant. The project
will target a' total of 50 villages in 7 districts, or approximately 10,000 rural households (8 percent of
Timor-Leste's rural families).
Activities promoted under this component are expected in general to have positive environmental effects.
They include: (a) reforestation and rehabilitation of denuded communal areas within participating
villages; (b) rehabilitation of selected catchment areas, thus enhancing the quality and quantity of water
supply for domestic and agricultural use; (c) community management of natural forest areas; (d)
mangrove rehabilitation, potentially improving productivity of fisheries resources; (e) community
management of coastal fisheries and marine resources; (f) community nurseries to propagate fruit and
forest tree species; (g) agro-forestry activities to promote aternative systems to shifting cultivation; and
(h) soil and water conservation structures in individual farms. By encouraging better natural resources
management, the component should also help decrease local vulnerability to climatic events such as
droughts and floods.
The main environmental issue envisaged during project implementation (based on the experience of ARP
11) is the disposal of large numbers of polybags (plastic bags used for seedlings). The recommended
environmental mitigation measure is proper disposal of the polybags by farmers. MAFF should also
encourage farmers to reuse the polybags or use local recyclable materials like bamboo tubes. In the
facilitator training sessions, MAFF will incorporate training on the reuse and proper disposal of polybags,
as well as the use of biodegradable substitutes.
Small freshwater fishponds in upland areas require minor excavation works by communities.
Observations in the field indicate that this generally takes place in land with little alternative use.
However, MAFF should ensure that the ponds are constructed at minimum distances from waterways and
that farmers use only local feeds (e.g. corn scraps).  Aquaculture proposals involving mangrove
conversion (e.g. shrimp) or relying on wild broodstock (e.g. grouper mariculture) would not be supported.
2



ARP 11 adopted an environmental and social check-list to screen potential proposals. However, there is a
need to simplify the form so that district staff and facilitators can use it-as a practical environmental
management guideline (or more likely as a best practice). The table below will complement the updated
version of the former form used by ARP 11. This updated form will be included in the Operational
Manual for Component I and training materials for field facilitators.
3



Table 1: Best Practices for Environmental Management for the
Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management Component
Planht;tinnis               -   Locate plantations on unfbrested sites or land already converted (excluding
any land that has been converted in anticipation of the activities).
- Avoid planting on steep slopes as it will encourage erosion
Processing                  -   Should be carried out by small-scale landholders, and local communities
under community forest management
-   Include non-timber forest products
- Harvest in areas outside critical fbrests or related critical natural habitats
-   Prepare a replanting plan to maintain the ecological functions and biological
diversity of the ar-.a.
Forest restoration and      -   Take actions to improve biodiversity and ecosystem functions
plantation development
-   Establish plantations in non-forest lands that do not contain critical natural
habitats
- Avoid conversions or degradation of natural habitats
-   Ensure cooperation between MAFF and local NGOs (if applicable) in forest
restoration and plantation' development
Seedlings production        -   Reuse polybags
(including silos)           -   Ensure proper plastic waste disposal (how??) and avoid burning them.
-   Explore altemative, biodegradable substitutes to polybags.
- Encourage farmers to adopt a schedule for silo maintenance (including
cleaning the silos to avoid insect breeding)
-   Select plant varieties/seeds that require lowest agro-chemical inputs to achieve
high yields
-   If farmers use fertilizers and pesticides, encourage their safe and sustainable
use (in accordance with World Bank Operational Procedures on Pest
Management)
-   Select plant varieties with minimal level of pest and disease vulnerability
Aquaculture                 -   Use locally available materials for fish feeds.
-   Locate fishponds away or at a substantial distance from waterways
- Drain ponds after harvest to avoid vector-borne diseases (e.g. malaria)
- Encourage only extensive, sustainable aquaculture methods (e.g. carp in
upland areas, seaweed mariculture in coastal areas); reject proposals for
brackishwater aquaculture which promote mangrove conversion (e.g. shrimp),
or dependence on natural broodstock (e.g. grouper).
Although Component I will not finance pesticides and fertilizers, it is possible that farmers may adopt
new farming practices that may require them. If this occurs, the application of these agrochemicals would
follow the World Bank's Operational Policy 4.09, which excludes all Class I toxic pesticides (see list in
Table 2), as well as the United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor Regulation on the
Importation and Use of Agriculture Chemicals in East Timor," which is in line with the Food and
Agriculture Organization International Code of Conduct on Distribution and Use of Pesticides, the
Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants, and the Rotterdam Convention on the Prior
Informed Consent Procedure for Certain Hazardous Chemicals and Pesticides in International Trade. As
4



an additional mitigation measure, MAFF staff would provide training for these farmers in the selection
and safe use of appropriate agrochemicals.
Table 2: World Health Orgianizatlon List of Toxic Pesticides (Class 1 and lb)
E Vrn't/h'/ ' HazarrmY PUDIesticides'............. Hieglil.4zh ylortn Pe. tiokles  Higlhh HazaY1rdos Pcvit.SidR/t
I( 'IX.3' I (a/)  ____________  Clss / (hi              C'Ias /h i t'/nl t/d
Aldicarh IS( )                 Acroleun (C)                    Paris green (C)
Brodifacoum (ISO)              Allyl alcohol (C)               Penthachlorophenol (ISO)
Bromadiolone (ISO)             Azinphos-ethyl (ISO)            Pindone (ISO)
Bromethalin (ISO)              Azinphos-methyl (ISO)           Pirimiphos-ethyl (ISO)
Calcium cynide (C)             Blasticidin-S                   Propaphos
Captafol (ISO)                 Butocarboxim (ISO)              Propetamphos (ISO)
Chlorethoxyfos (ISO)           Butoxycarboxim (ISO)            Sodium arsenite (C)
Chlormephos (ISO)              Cadusafos (ISO)                 Sodium cyanide (C)
Chlorophacinone (ISO)          Caliut    '    (C)              Mr-hnT- (C)
Difenacoum (ISO)               Carbofhran (ISO)                Tefluthrin
Difethialone (ISO)             Chlorfenvinphos (ISO)           Thallium sulfate (C)
Diphacinone (ISO)              3Chloro-1, 2-propanediol (C)    Thiofanox (ISO)
Disulfoton (ISO)               Coumaphos (ISO)                 Thiometon (ISO)
EPN                            Coumatetralyl (ISO)             Triazophos (ISO)
Ethoprophos (ISO)              Zeta-cypermethrin (ISO)         Vamidothion (ISO)
Flocoumafen                    Demeton-S-methyl (ISO)          Warfirin (ISO)
Fonofos (ISO)                  Dichlorvos (ISO)  *             Zinc Phosphide (C)
Hexachlorobenzene (ISO)         Dicrotophos (ISO)
Mercuric chloride (ISO)        Dinoterb (ISO)
Mevinphos (ISO)                DNOC (ISO)
Parathion (ISO)                 Edifenphos (ISO)
Parathion-methyl (ISO)          Ethiofencarb (ISO)
Phenylmercury acetate (ISO)    Famphur
Phorate (ISO)                  Fenaniphos (ISO)
Phosphamidon                   Flucythrinate (ISO)
Sodium fluoroacetate (C)       Fluoroacetanide (C)
Sulfotep (ISO)                 Formetanate (ISO)
Tebupirimfbs (ISO)             Furathiocarb
Terbukos (ISO)                 Heptenophos (ISO)
Isazofos (ISO)
Isofenphos (ISO)
Isoxathion (ISO)
Lead arsenate (C)
Mecarban (ISO)
Mercuric oxide (ISO)
Methamidophos (ISO)
Methadath ion (ISO)
Methiocarb (ISO)
Methomyl (ISO)
Monocrotophos (ISO)
Nicotine (ISO)
Omethoate (ISO)
Oxamyl (ISO)
Oxydemeton-methyl (ISO)



Component 2: Irrigation Rehabilitation and Development
Community Irrigation and Roads Rehabilitation
This activity will include the rehabilitation of community based irrigation schemes serving 3,000 ha of
irrigable land. This represents about 29 percent of the small irrigation schemes in need of rehabilitation in
Timor-Leste. None of these works will have significant. complex or irreversible adverse environmental
effects, since they will be carried out only in pre-existing schemes. The activity will therefore not
endanger protected or vulnerable areas or habitats. Potential impacts should be short-term, localized and
readily prevented or mitigated by good engineering design and construction practices, reinforced by
adequate supervision by MAFF staff of target communities.
An estimated total of 150 km of agriculture access roads will be rehabilitated and maintained through
community participation. This 'ctivity is not exp"ted to prodil|e significant negative environmental
impacts as it involves the rehabilitation of existing unpaved roads, without any lengthening or
enlargement of alignment. Local communities will undertake the work using hand tools and local
materials.
The main anticipated environmental impacts will be soil erosion and possible land slides in hilly areas.
During the design and construction phases, MAFF will adopt the following mitigation measures: (a)
encourage communities to plant bush grass or build retaining walls in slopes and suitable places along the
road side to prevent soil erosion; (b) on sections 'ith high filing and deep cutting, encourage
communities to cover slopes with stone walls and plant with grass; (c) in sections along the river,
encourage communities to properly dispose of earth and stone to avoid blocking rivers, adversely
impacting water quality; and (d) encourage temporary canals and culverts to provide adequate drainage.
After rehabilitation, MAFF should encourage communities to maintain road surfaces, drains and
shoulders by periodically clearing drains to ensure water flow. Regular maintenance would help reduce
environmental impacts caused by continuing deterioration of road conditions.
Rehabilitation of Major Irrigation Schemes
The only major irrigation scheme proposed for rehabilitation is Carulun, in the district of Manufahi. This
scheme serves a potential irrigable area of 1,030 ha, or about 27 percent of the area covered by large
damaged irrigation schemes in Timor-Leste.
Rehabilitation of Caraulun is unlikely to create any major adverse environmental impacts. No new
construction/structure of significant size would be built. The major rehabilitation work is the construction
of a new free intake at the existing intake site, with water drawn from the existing river bed level A new
channel would be constructed through the existing masonry sedimentation basin and canal. The existing
canals will also be rehabilitated.
Operation of the irrigation scheme is not expected to result in significant negative environmental impacts
as it would bring back water into previously irrigated areas. Since irrigation water is generally diverted
from river flows during and immediately after the rainy.season, the rehabilitation of the scheme would not
affect ground water supply but may reduce slightly the amount of runoff water that goes to the sea.
During ARP 11, MAFF commissioned a comprehensive feasibility study for major-damaged irrigation
schemes which included an environmental analysis (see SMEC 2003. Feasibility Study Report of Seical
Up, Maliana I, Uatolari and Carulun Irrigation Schemes, Annex 6). The study indicated only relatively
minor potential impacts. There are no protected areas or cultural sites within the scheme area. Negative
6



impacts could potentially come from: (a) erosion and scouring of river banks; (b) indiscriminate dumping
of excavated sediment deposits and other materials from the canals, drains, and structures during
construction and maintenance; and (c) environmental damage caused by contractors during construction
activities. The recommended mitigation measures to address these potential impacts include: (a) gravel
management to maintain the river course during low and medium flows; (b) community-based catchment
management to reduce the loss of vegetation on the slopes; (c) management of construction works during
construction including disposal of sewage, disposal of spoil from canal desilting, and appropriate location
of construction camp; (d) protection of flora and fauna; and (e) addressing health issues such as potential
for increased mosquito breeding grounds in temporary ponds. MAFF would convene a workshop to train
and sensitize irrigation workers in best environmental practices, so they could orient the communities in
this regard.
The identified list of potential environmental impacts from construction of major damaged schemes is
included in Table 3 below, along with the rcc)mmendcdi mitigatkon mica*eurcr  -,--',T. MAFF
will ensure that these measures are incorporated into the scope of works for the contractors as well as the
terms of reference for the engineering supervisors. Relevant mitigation measures will also be integrated in
WUA and staff training materials.
Rehabilitation of Carulun is expected to also have positive environmental impacts through: (a) cleaning of
the main canals, drains and removal of deposited debris and other unwanted materials; (b) repair and
improvement of canals and drainage channel banks; (c),removal of areas of stagnant and standing water
through cleaning of drainage canals and drainage systerns; and (d) improvement of water management by
providing better access to control structures and to gates, improvement of outlets to farms and the re-
establishment of Water User Associations.
Component 3: Services to Farmers
This component is not expected to have any significant environmental impacts. The project would
support better information to farmers which should help encourage sustainable agriculture and natural
resource management practices. The project would also support the restablishment of a network of agro-
meteorological units and rain gauges. The automatic units would be installed in pre-existing sites. The
rain gauges may require the construction of minor fences (about 9 m2) to protect them against the
elements and vandalism, but this should not entail any major environmental impact. The agro-
meteorological network would be an important source of information to help MAFF and other
government agencies identify vulnerable areas to droughts and floods and consequently develop
appropriate policy responses.
The Support to Agri-Business component would support the establishment of small village coconut and
candlenut oil mills and rice seed producers. The feasibility study carried out prior to investment would
determine environmentally suitable ways to dispose of the potential processing waste. Extension support
to rice seed producers is likely to entail distribution (by MAFF) of small quantities of pesticides and
fertilizers. If so, the procedures described for Component I (including compliance with Operational
Directive 4.09 on Pest Management would apply. The Sustainable Animal Health Services sub-
component would focus on vaccination and animal health and is not expected to have any significant
environmental impacts. Syringes used for vaccination are extensively re-used, so their disposal is not
seen as problematic.
Component 4: Program Management
This component would not have any significant adverse impacts on the environment. One of the policy
studies proposed by MAFF would cover community-based natural resource management which is
7



expctrcd to improve the overall policy framework for environmental management in forest and coastal
areas of Timor-Leste.
The overall potential environmental impacts of the project and remedies proposed are summarized in
Table 4 below.
8



Table 3. Potential Environmental Impacts and Recommended Preventive and Mitigation Measures for Major Damaged Irrigation Schemes
P7ot_ent7,ia mpacts Is;ue  ------------Prevenstion Measure                                                                             Recammended Mlitigation1Measure
PotentW Primary Impacts              -    River training with rcvetments and gabion walls                -    Protective pabion walls
- River bank erosion caused by floods
- General river bank erosion                      -    Plant suitable grasses (e.g. vetiver. lemon grass)            -     Plant suitable grasses (e.g. vetiver and lemon grass)
- River bed gouging and scouring                  -    Place boulders from site is scoured or gouges sites           -     Place boulders from site in scoured or gouLges sites,
- Where construction works cut into bank above    -    Vegetate with quick growing cuttings. if necessary held in place by  -  Where site is in danger of immediatc and significant erosion, spray
water line                                          wire mesh. Protec t om livestock by palisades. Augment cuttings     with binding mixture, preferably biodegradable and containing seeds
with seeds of a desired species.                                    (e.g. Hydro-seed or Hydro-mulch). If this is not appropriate, use
vigorous grass species and place palm leaves or other vegetation and
stake in place at close intervals.
- Sediment run-off from bank eroson.              -    Plant banks with grasses and where sediment run-off is steep.  -    Plant bankks with grassea and where sediment run-off is steep,
augment with sediment traps of stone or well staked branches.       augment with sediment traps of stone or well staked branches.
- Landslips and slides                            -    Vegetate slopes. Etnsure construction work will not create or worsen  -  Minimise damage and excavate material from scheme sites whTer
these occurrences. Where potential slips likely to occur, install   neceasary. Build gabion walls if further slides or slips may occur
barriers to reduce impact of weirs, heacdworks and canals.
- Reduced groundwater flows                       -    Estimate groundwater intake from surface and rcecharge flows and  .-  Immediately adjust scheme intakes above known groundwater
adjust scheme intake so mainTtain balance each planting season (i.e.  intakes.
three simes a year).
- Intrusion of saline water into groundwater systems  -  Estimate flow ofgtoundwaser required to prevent saliink irtfusion  -  Immediately adjust scheme intakes above known groundwater
and adjust seheme intakes above known groundwater intakes,          intakes.
-Degradation of downstream habitats through lack  -  Ensure appropriate controls are in place to regulate flows.    -    Increase flow.
of water.
- Impacts on coastal environments e.g. maagroves.  -   Ensure appropriate controls are in place to ensure sufficient flow.  -  Increase flow.
estuaries and salt flats through reduced stream
flows and lack of' flushing.
- Reduced water availability downstream furT           Ensure appropriate controls are in place so ensure sufricient flow  -  Increase flow
domestic and subsistence use
- Water logging arising from poor irrigation      -    Develop guidelines (rules of thumb) for water volume applications.  -  Inform water users of problem and request appropriate action
managemenst                                         Educate water users regarding overuse.
- Impacts of floods on villages and garden areas  -    Assess 10.20, and SO year flood event patterns and include protective  -  Build protective gabiont to protect critical areas and/or levee banks.
mneasures such as gabions.                                          Following floods, investigate alternative sites
- Equity Issues                                   -    Ensure thser is agreement between all parsies as to the equity of use  -  Ensurcethere is agreement between all parties asto the equitv ofause
-                                        ~~~~~~~    ~    ~~~~~~~~for ea   shmee"rea' orposed scheme.
-   -   -   -   - -   - -   -   -   -  - -   - -   -   -   -   - -   - -   -   - 9



Table 3 Cont'd. Potential Environmental Impacts and Recommended Preventive/Mitigation Measures for Major Damaged Irrigation Scbemes
Potential ImpTa-s Issue                                                 Prevention Meassure                                         Reaomrmnended Mitigartion Measure
Po4endat Secondary lrm
- Increased pressure on land availability       -   Introduce planning measures and IntegratedCatchment Managcment  -  Liaise with community throughout. Introduce planning regulations.
Consult with community and invite ptrticipation in decision-making.
Introduce concept of community partnership management
- Impacts on downstream users                   -   Ensuwe detailed design includes all planned water flows, highest level  -  Take immediate remedial action at WUA level to reach agreements
usage and local and downstream usage (including duing droughts).  between the scheme community and downstream communities on the
most appropriate action, and formalize agreement.
- Vegetation clearing and degradation as a result of  -  Assess existent and potential degradation. Consuh with community  -  Restrict clearing slash and burt unil area has recovered.
land access issues                                and invite participabon in decision-making reprding a preventative  -  Revegetate. where possible with local species. Restrict number of
approach. Restrict slash and burn practices. Introduce community   goats or control by fencing. Introduce planning measures and
partnership management.                                           regulations.
- Salinization. degradation and general 'souring' of  -  Idemify substarta and water/groundwater height to assess water  -  Test and take appropriate action.
irrigated land through high groundwater levels.  logging and salinization potential. Conduct yearly water level and
water and soil quality checks.
- Nutrient leaching                              -  Estimate waste flow/ nutrient loss. Implement community management  -  Reduce number of crops and/or amount of water applied. Work with
plan. Conduct community awareness and training programs            WUAa.
- Concentrated toxic leachates from bedrock in   -  Analyze bedrock at design stage.                _               -  lfgroundwater is reduced over a long period, begin testing on a six
reduced groundwater.                                                                                                 monthly basis, in particular for sulphu/arsenic
- Eutrophication                                 -  Ensure tbere will be sufficient flow to reduce eutrofication potential.  -  Establish specific causes of problem and mitigate, in partnership with
Build community awareness on nutrient build-up, especially from use  community/WUAs.
offertilzers.
Potendol Terdrwy Impacr
- Slope erosion arising from increased pressure for  -  Institute Intengrated Catchment Management principles and  -   Institute Integrated Catchments Management principles and
land and consequential vegetation clearing.       revegetation programs.                                             revegetation programs
- Loss of habitat ( from loss of vegetation).    -  Institute Integrated Catchments Management and revegetation    -   Institute Integrated Catchments Management principles and
programs                                                           revegetation programs.
- Evapotranspiration/water cyck and long-term    -  Instigate community education programs. Incorporate in policy and  -  Instigate community education programs. Incorporate in policy and
climatic impacts arising from reduction of        regulations.                                                      regulations.
vegetation
- Uncertairny of land tenure/ownaship on scheme  -  Land tenure specialist to identify type of land ownership in each  -  Ifregulation/policy issued, request arbitration from appropriate
arising from changes in land use.                 scheme district, any relevant colonial or contemporary legislation and  authority. If not initiate a community agreement process.
make recommendations to the appropnate government body to ensure
the sustairnabilify of he scheme within the social /larid tenure context.
I0



Table 4: Summary of Project Potential Environmental Impacts and Remedies
Project Component         Po-.!itial F&vironmental Impact  Projeci Remedial Action
Participatory Development  Impact is not significant due to  Community proposals will be screened against criteria to
and Natural Resources      small-scale nature of activities.  evaluatc their environrmental soundness.
Management                                               Bcst practics for environmental management will be also
included in the Operational Manual.
Any indirect application of fertilizer and pesticides will be in
accordance to World Bank Operational Policy 4.09.
Rehabilitation of existing
irrigation schemes:
- Community scale       Impacts are local and temporary.  Community rehabilitation activities will be screened against the
same environmental criteria as Component I.
No irrigation activities will be supported inside protected areas.
- Caraulun Scheme       Summary description of potential  Recommended environmental mitigation measures will be
impacts and mitigation measures  incorporated into construction tender documents and terms ot
for major damaged   irrigation  reference for construction supervision
schemecs shown on table 3     Applicable mitigation measures will be incorporated into
training materials for Water User Associations and MAFF
Rehabilitation  of farm-to-  Rehabilitation  would   be  MAFF will provide advice on environmental best practices to
market access roads.       undertaken only on existing roads  local communitics involved in road rehabilitation.
and would not enlarge or lengthe  No road rehabilitation activities will be supported inside
protected areas.
Impacts would be loca    and  MAFF to convene workshop to train irrigation staff in best
temporary.                    environmental practices for road rehabilitation.
All projcct components     Ensure adequate public disclosure  MAFF will ensure adequate public disclosure of Project
of key project documents.     activities, and availability of relcvant documents (including the
Project Environmental Analysis) in publicly accessible
locations. PAD  including environmental analysis and the
Integrated Safeguard Data Sheet will be available at the World
Bank Public Information Center.



REp&ULcA DmocATICA DZ TIORLKOT
MMITotO Di AB3R0CULTU3A, FLORITAB Z PUSCAD
No. 3i1/GM/VIII/03
18 August 2003
Mr. Xian Zhu
Country Director for Timor-Leste
The World Bank
Dear Sir:
As part of the requirements of the WB-IDA for the appraisal of the proposed Third
Agriculture Rehabilitation Project (ARP III), we are hereby submitting the attached document,
entitled "Draft Environmental Analysis". This Ministry hereby agrees that the same could be
made available publicly.
With our best regards.
Very truly yours,
i Llstanislau Aleixo da Silva
Minister



