Page  1
 
 
Draft Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS) 
 
 Section I – Basic Information 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated:  September 23, 2003
 
Country: 
Timor-Leste 
Project:
 Third Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
 
Project ID:
 P079320 
TL:
 Sofia U. Bettencourt 
 
Total project cost (by component): 
 
Component 1: Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management (US$1.3 million) 
Component 2:  Irrigation Rehabilitation and Management  (US$3.5 million) 
Component 3:  Services to Farmers (US$4.2 million) 
Component 4:  Program Management (US$2.4 million)
 
Appraisal Date
: September 01, 2003 
RVP Approval:
 November 26, 2003 
 
Grant amount($M):   
US$3 million (TFET) 
 
 
Other financing amounts by source: 
EUROPEAN COMMISSION 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE 
 
(US$M) 
6.9 equivalent (€ 6.854 million) 
1.5         
 
Managing Unit
: EASRD 
 
 
 
 
 
Sector:
 General agriculture, fishing and forestry (10%);  
Irrigation and drainage (30%); General information and  
communication (15%); Animal production (20%);  
Agriculture marketing and trade (5%); General public  
sector administration (20%) 
 
 
Lending Instruments:
 Specific Investment Loan 
 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency recovery?
1
 
 
Yes? 
\01
 No? [ ] 
 
Environmental Category:   
 B 
 
Safeguard Classification: 
S2 
 
A.2. Project Objectives 
 
The proposed Third Agriculture Rehabilitation Project  (ARP III) aims to 
strengthen the capacity of the Ministry 
of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries and its development partners  to assist rural communities in increasing 
their production and income in a sustainable way.  
 
The project was designed as the consolidation phase for the Agriculture Rehabilitation Program, focusing on 
sustainability of activities, impact of achievements and quality of outputs.  Key project outcomes will be 
measured through the following major impact indicators: 
 
\01\02
All major project activities integrated into MAFF programs and funded by the Government by the end of the 
project 
\01\02
Average rice yields in rehabilitated irrigated areas increasing from 1.5 to 2.0 metric tons per hectare per crop 
by the end of the project (EOP);  cropping intensities in Caraulun increasing to 160% by EOP.
 
\01\02
70 percent of farmer beneficiaries satisfied with the services rendered.
 
Page  2
 
 
The sustainability and integration of project activities into MAFF will be assessed through the FY08 budget 
allocation. MAFF is conducting a crop yield survey which would serve as a baseline to determine the impact of 
rehabilitated irrigation schemes. MAFF will also design a farmer servicing survey to measure a satisfaction index 
for services provided.    
 
Timor-Leste’s agriculture goals are to (a) 
attain food security and improve self-sufficiency; and (b) to generate 
rural employment and increase income, through farming system diversification and agro-industrial development. 
The project would contribute to these goals by strengthening MAFF’s main programs of assistance to rural 
communities, while delivering essential services in the areas of agriculture information, animal health, and agri-
business support. Together with other donor-funded projects, ARP III would also help MAFF develop key 
agriculture and natural resource policies needed to clarify the roles of the government, rural communities and 
civil society in the sustainable management of the sector. 
A.3. Project Description 
 
The project would include four major components: 
Gfi
Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management (US$1.3 million) 
Gfi
Irrigation Rehabilitation and Management  (US$3.5 million) 
Gfi
Services to Farmers (US$4.2 million) 
Gfi
Program Management (US$2.4 million) 
 
The first component would be funded fully by the Trust Fund for East Timor (TFET).  The remaining 
components would be co-financed by the European Commission (EC) and TFET, with TFET covering the bulk of 
the first year’s activities, and EC years 2 to 3.  
 
Component 1 – Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management,
 will support MAFF’s main 
assistance program to upland and coastal communities. It will promote improved self-reliance and natural 
resource management to strengthen communities’ resilience and make them less vulnerable to external shocks 
(such as periodic droughts and chronic food insecurity). It targets an estimated 50 villages in seven districts
1
 – 
Dili, Lautem, Liquiça, Manufahi, Covalima, Baucau, and Oecussi, or approximately 10,000 rural households. 
About 30 percent of direct beneficiaries would be women.   
The project will finance small village grants, services, training, workshops and cross visits, vehicles, office 
equipment, and incremental operating costs in support of the following activities: 
\01\02
Continuing technical and facilitation support to 30 pilot villages initiated during ARP II 
Expansion to about 20 new villages, including provision of small village grants. 
 
Component 2 – Irrigation Rehabilitation and Management
, will support MAFF’s main assistance program to 
farmers in lowland irrigated areas, based on procedures developed during ARP I and II. The component would 
target about 4,000 rural families in all 13 districts. About 20 percent of members of Water User Associations 
(WUAs) are expected to be women. 
The project will finance civil works, construction supervision, services, training, cross visits, farming inputs, 
office equipment, vehicles, and incremental operating costs in support of: 
\01\02
Community rehabilitation of small irrigation schemes and rural access roads; 
\01\02
Rehabilitation of the Caraulun irrigation scheme in Manufahi district; 
\01\02
Support to Water User Associations (WUAs) and capacity building for MAFF staff;  
\01\02
Survey and mapping of irrigation schemes. 
 
Component 3 – Services to Farmers
, will help institutionalize three basic MAFF services to farmers: Information, 
Animal Health, and Agri-Business support.  
                                                
 
1
 
Similar programs are being implemented by UNDP/UNOPs, AusAID and Portugal in the remaining six districts
. 
Page  3
 
 
 
 
Sub-Component 3.1.  Information to Farmers
, will increase MAFF’s capacity to provide information to farmers 
(targeting most of the 450,000 people with radio access), and foster two-way communication with rural areas. 
The project would fund technical assistance, information materials and programs, equipment, small works, 
training and cross visits, translation services, and incremental operating costs in support of:  
 
\01\02
Information programming, including face-to-face communication and mass media.  
\01\02
Support to MAFF’s Liaison Secretariat with the Consultative Group of International Agricultural Research 
(CGIAR) and other international centers of expertise. 
\01\02
Pilot community-based information networks at the district level. 
\01\02
Rehabilitation of a network of automated agro-meteorological stations and rain gauges.  
Sub-Component 3.2.  Sustainable Animal Health Services, 
will target the estimated 567,000 rural people living in 
households which own livestock, a major determinant of rural incomes.  The project would finance technical 
assistance, vaccines and veterinary supplies, equipment,  vaccination campaigns, vehicles, training and cross 
visits, and incremental operating costs for:  
\01\02
National vaccination campaigns 
\01\02
Replacement of cold chain equipment. 
\01\02
Training and regulatory support to a network of private Village Livestock Workers (VLWs). 
\01\02
Capacity building for livestock staff. 
 
Sub-Component 3.3.  Support to Agri-businesses
, will strengthen MAFF’s advisory services to rural producer 
organizations, as well as help promote key niche markets targeting some 1,200-1,500 seed growers (mostly rice 
and maize), and about 210 farming families involved in niche market commodities (such as candlenut and 
coconut oil production). The project would finance technical assistance, small works, agriculture and office 
equipment, farm inputs, training, and incremental operating costs for: 
 
\01\02
Support to seed producers.   
\01\02
Support to priority niche market commodities.  
\01\02
Strengthening of agri-business support services in MAFF.   
Component 4 – Program Management,
 will help MAFF to manage the project, continue to develop key national 
policies, and strengthen the Ministry’s managerial and technical capacity. 
Sub-Component 4.1. Policy and Strategy Development
, will fund high-level advisors and consultative workshops 
to help MAFF develop about priority sectoral and institutional policies and strategies. 
 
Sub-Component 4.2. Project Management and Capacity Building,
 will provide technical assistance, office, 
computer equipment and furnishings, workshops, training, study tours, and incremental operating costs in support 
of the following activities: 
\01\02
Priority equipment and furnishings for District and Regional Agricultural Offices and MAFF; 
\01\02
Priority management and technical training for MAFF staff; and 
 
A.4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard analysis: 
 
The majority of project activities will be implemented in all 13 districts. Component 1 activities will only be 
implemented in seven districts. The most important physical characteristics are related to soil stability/erosion: 
mountainous terrain, high slopes, unstable soil formations, and high erosion potential.  However, activities in 
these areas will involve improved natural resource management and mitigation measures to reduce environmental 
degradation rather than increased agricultural productivity. The activities are not located in or in close proximity 
to any disputed areas. 
 
 
 
Page  4
 
 
B. Check Environmental Category
                             
A [
 
], B 
\01
, , C [ ], FI [ ]
 
 
Comments: 
The project is not expected to have significant, complex or irreversible adverse environmental 
impacts. All irrigation rehabilitation will be carried out on pre-existing schemes, and no works will be undertaken 
that could affect protected or vulnerable ecosystems. Community sub-projects under Component 1 would be 
screened for their potential environmental and social impacts, and both these as well as the rehabilitation of 
community irrigation and roads rehabilitation (which will take place in pre-existing schemes) will follow best 
practice criteria, included in the Operational Manuals. 
 
C. 
Safeguard 
Policies 
Triggered 
   Yes 
 No 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 4.01) 
 
\01
  
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 
4.04) 
   
\01
  
[ 
] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
) 
   
\01
  
[ 
] 
Cultural Property (draft OP 4.11 - 
OPN 11.03
-)  
[ 
] 
  
\01
 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12) 
 
 
\01
  
[ 
] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
) 
   [ 
] 
 
 
\01
 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36) 
    
\01
  
[ 
] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 
4.37) 
   [ 
] 
 
 
\01
 
   
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
   [ 
] 
 
 
\01
 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.50)              
\01
                         [ ]
 
 
Section II – Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management 
 
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues
. 
 
A.1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe 
any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts. 
 
The project triggers the following safeguard policies: (a) Environmental Assessment), (b) Natural Habitats; (c) 
Forests; (d) Pest Management; (e) International Waterways; and (f) Involuntary Resettlement. Potential 
environmental impacts will be short-term, localized and readily prevented or mitigated by good engineering 
design and construction practices as laid out on the prevention and mitigation measures, reinforced by adequate 
supervision in the field. In the unlikely event that land is acquired by the government, it will be located around an 
existing irrigation scheme, will be minor in nature, and will not result in relocation. 
 
Natural Habitats 
This policy will apply to the project.  All community-based irrigation and farm-to-market access roads will be 
located outside protected areas as defined in Regulation 2000/19 on Protected Areas (one of the criteria used in 
their selection).  However, the Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management component 
(Component 1), may be carried out in and around natural habitat areas.  The component is expected to strengthen 
natural habitat management by introducing improved methods of watershed management and replanting. The 
negative list for activities under Component one excludes any activity which may impact adversely on 
important/protected natural habitats, including at altitudes above 2000 meters, in mangrove areas, wetlands and 
coral reefs (unless for rehabilitation purposes). 
 
Forests 
This policy will apply to the project.  Component 1 will include activities on community-based forest 
management, such as reforestation of community-owned forest land, and sustainable utilization of non-timber 
forest products in natural forests within village boundaries (e.g. bamboo or honey marketing).  It will not involve 
harvesting timber in natural forests.   Communal plantations established under the project will not be ready for 
harvest for 10-15 
y
ears.  The O
p
erational Manual for the com
p
onent will include 
p
rovisions that re
q
uire 
                                                
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas
 
Page  5
 
 
replanting of future trees harvested in any community forestry areas supported under the project, and require 
conservation plans for areas reforested to mitigate environmental degradation. 
 
Pest Management
 
This policy may be triggered in limited occasions.  Under the on-farm demonstrations of new crop varieties by 
Water User Associations (Irrigation Rehabilitation Component) and support to certified seed producers (Support 
to Agri-Business) it is possible that the project may need to supply limited amounts of pesticides to control insects 
or pests.  In addition, farmers in Component 1 may feel the need to use agro-chemicals to protect new varieties 
introduced under the project (even though the project itself would not finance pesticides or fertilizers).  In these 
cases, MAFF would ensure that all procurement of pesticides would comply with Operational Directive 4.09 and 
with the Government’s “
Regulation on the Importation and Use of Agricultural Chemicals
”.  All Class 1 toxic 
pesticides, as defined by the World Health Organization,  would be excluded. MAFF would further provide 
training to farmers on principles of integrated pest management to minimize the use of chemical pesticides, and 
enhance their awareness on safe application and disposal methods of pesticide containers. 
  
Cultural Property
 
This policy is not expected to apply to the project.  All community-based Small Village Grants will be small in 
scale and will be decided by the communities themselves within their administrative village boundaries.  The 
exclusion of activities which endanger cultural property has been specified in the negative list of activities for 
Component 1. Rehabilitation of roads and irrigation will be on pre-existing schemes only.  
 
Involuntary Resettlement
 
No involuntary resettlement or land acquisition, is expected to take place as a result of project activities as 
demonstrated under implementation of ARP II. However, small amounts of land may be required to implement 
community-based activities under both Component 1 and community irrigation and roads rehabilitation (Sub-
Component 2.1). These would involve voluntary arrangements by communities.  In the case of the Caraulun 
major irrigation rehabilitation activity (2.2), there is a possibility, albeit remote, that the Government of Timor 
Leste may be required to acquire land for completion of the rehabilitation works as designed.  
 
Component 1 may also involve community decisions to manage natural resources according to traditional law 
(e.g. establishing conservation areas within their village boundaries), which are excluded from this policy. 
Re-establishment of agro-meteorological network would take place primarily in pre-existing sites, with the 
installation of new agro-meteorological equipment. Where the previous sites and equipment are not available, 
there may be a need to install some new equipment in selected locations.  The replacement agro-meteorological 
equipment would be located on government land, and would require a small (about 9 m
2
) fenced area to protect 
the equipment against vandalism.  
 
Indigenous Peoples
 
This policy would not apply to the project. East Timor is made up of approximately 13 major ethnicities and 33 
main and sub-language groups. No single ethnic group dominates, and none are better placed than others to 
capture project benefits.  As such there are no “minority” groups requiring special attention. Village units are 
made up of homogeneous ethnic populations, and the project is designed to operate largely within the 
administrative boundaries of single villages, including the irrigation schemes. One of the criteria for the selection 
of the target villages under Component 1 will be their level of poverty, with preference given to the poorest 
communities. This will ensure that the most marginal ethnic groups are included. Although widely spoken, not all 
ethnic groups speak Tetun or Indonesian. As a consequence, MAFF will select facilitators and Village Livestock 
Workers based on their capacity to communicate in the language of pilot villages and local interpreters will be 
used where required. National activities, such as vaccination campaigns also rely on locally-employed vaccinators 
and information is provided in local languages through the National community radio network. An Indigenous 
People’s Development Plan would therefore not be required. 
 
Safety of Dams
 
This policy would not apply to the project. No dams will be constructed under the project. 
 
 
 
Page  6
 
 
 
Projects in International Waters
 
The only major irrigation rehabilitation (Caraulun) is located in central Timor-Leste and does not involve 
international water issues as defined in the Operational Policy 7.50.   While it is not possible to identify up front the 
location of all the community irrigation schemes (they will be proposed by communities for each season) MAFF 
will adopt the procedure followed under ARP II to screen any proposed schemes near the border with Indonesia that 
may potentially involve international waterways.  MAFF will consult with IDA to ensure that they comply with the 
exception to the requirement to inform Indonesian riparians which applies in cases where the works involve only 
minor additions or alterations to the ongoing scheme, which 
“(i) will not adversely change the quality or quantity of 
water flows to the other riparians; and (ii) will not be adversely affected by the other riparians possible water use.
  
This exception was granted on September 17, 2003. In cases where this cannot be ensured, the schemes would not 
be considered for rehabilitation under the project.  The need for notification will be reconsidered if required under 
future treaties with Indonesia. 
D.2 Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the 
project area 
 
Component 1 (Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management):
 This component is a continuation 
of a similar component in ARP II.  The environmental review conducted during pre-appraisal concluded that due to 
the small scale of the community projects,  their environmental impact is not expected to be significant.  The main 
environmental issue envisaged is the disposal of large numbers of polybags used by farmers in project-funded 
nurseries.  Small freshwater fishponds in upland areas require minor excavation works by communities.  Field 
observations, however, indicate that this generally takes place in land with little alternative use.   The component 
also includes activities on community-based forest management, such as reforestation of community-owned forest 
land, and sustainable utilization of non-timber forest products in natural forests within the village boundary (e.g. 
bamboo or honey harvesting and marketing).  This should in principle result in better natural resource management, 
and decreased vulnerability to climatic events.  However, it is important to ensure that community reforestation take 
place outside protected areas or critical/important habitats as defined in Regulation 2000/19 on Protected Areas, and 
if any planting occurs on degraded land to reverse the degradation, conservation plans are put in place.  The project 
will not support harvesting timber from natural forests, nor the promotion of significant or mono-species 
plantations. 
 
A possible social concern is the distribution of future benefits from trees that may only be ready to harvest in 10-15 
years.  In ARP II sites, the harvesting of timber products is generally regulated by traditional law.  All community 
members are given an opportunity to participate in project activities, but some fail to do so as they may not be 
interested in participating initially, or may come from villages with a large number of households (ARP II involved 
on average 65 percent of the pilot village population).    
 
Component 2 (Irrigation Rehabilitation and Management)
: the main anticipated indirect environmental impacts of 
the rehabilitation of farm-to-market roads may include indiscriminate excavation of soil from borrow pits; potential 
indirect impacts for rehabilitation of existing irrigation schemes are (a) erosion and scouring of river banks; (b) 
indiscriminate dumping of excavated sediment deposits and other materials from the canals, drains, and structures 
during construction and maintenance; and (c) environmental damage caused by contractors during construction 
activities. In addition, under the on-farm demonstrations of new crop varieties and agricultural practices by Water 
User Associations, limited application of approved pesticides may be promoted.
 
 
Sub-component 3.2 (Animal Health Services) 
involves the use of needles for animal vaccination.  However, these 
needles are extensively re-used, and only disposed of once damaged.  Vaccinators would be trained in their 
appropriate disposal.  
 
Sub-component 3.3 (Support to Agribusinesses)
 is promoting certified seed production activities by seed growers 
association members. It is possible that the project may need to assist target seed growers with limited quantities of 
approved pesticides to control insect pests or diseases.  Coconut or candlenut oil processing mills may generate 
concentrated organic waste which will need to be addressed in guidelines for the establishment and operation of the 
mills. 
 
Page  7
 
 
Other project activities – Policy and Strategy Development, and Project Management and Capacity Building, are 
not expected to present safeguard risks.  One of the policy studies supported by the project is expected to improve 
the overall policy framework for community-based and co-management of natural resources. 
 
D.3. Describe the treatment of alternatives (if relevant) 
 
Not applicable. 
 
D.4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard issues. Provide an assessment of 
borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
 
Development of Land Policy Framework
 
As small amounts of community land may be required for community-based and owned activities under 
Components 1 and 2.1 (Community Irrigation and Roads) a Land Policy Framework for ARP III has been prepared 
to ensure that voluntary land donations are not made under duress, and that appropriate compensation is provided 
from within the community.  In the rehabilitation of the Caraulun scheme (sub-component 2.2) there is a remote 
possibility that small areas of land around the existing intake and canals may need to be acquired by the 
Government to rehabilitate the scheme as designed.  Should this be needed, the Land Policy Framework provides 
for state compensation.  In case communities in Caraulun decided to establish tertiary canals under community 
irrigation contracts, the same process as for sub-component 2.1. would apply.  Agro-meteorological stations would 
be located in government land. 
 
MAFF staff, project facilitators, and partner NGOs participating in implementation will receive training in the 
application of the Land Policy Framework under the relevant component activities. 
 
Other measures taken to address safeguard issues by component/activity are described below: 
 
Component 1 (
Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management
): MAFF has prepared a positive and 
negative list of activities which will guide the preparation and funding approval of activity proposals. All proposed 
activities would be first scrutinized against an environmental and social impact checklist by District Implementation 
Teams and mitigation measures developed and included in each Community Agreement. A best practice guideline 
has been prepared for environmental management of community activities (see table 1 of Annex 12 of the PAD) 
and included in the Component 1 Operational Manual.  The guidelines include recommended practices for disposal 
and substitution of polybags (excluding disposal by burning), sustainable mechanisms for replanting, and guidelines 
for location of fishponds.  
 
The process of planning community-based forestry activities will be strengthened to incorporate stronger principles 
of equity and sustainable management.  Essentially, the project will provide follow-up opportunities for 
participation to community members willing to participate after the success of the initial planting, with the 
distribution of future benefits determined according to traditional mechanisms. The project also plans to support a 
policy study on Community-Based Natural Resources Management (incorporating World Bank Forest Safeguard 
policies) that would help guide the future implementation of community forestry and fisheries management 
activities. Where communities elect to reforest environmentally degraded areas, conservation plans to restrict future 
logging in these areas would be prepared, as well as a sustainable harvesting plan in areas designated for future 
timber harvesting of community forests. These principles have been incorporated into the revised Operational 
Manual.  
 
MAFF is currently in the process of recruiting 30 Forest guardians/extension workers.  The project will liaise with 
these new staff to brief them on the communities’ agreed obligations in relation to future sustainable harvesting of 
any project-supported community forests.  
 
Component 2 (Irrigation Rehabilitation and Management
): MAFF will provide advice on simple environmental 
best practices to local communities involved in irrigation and farm-to-market roads rehabilitation.  This will include 
(a) encouraging communities to plant brush grass or build retaining walls along the road to prevent soil erosion; (b) 
encourage communities to cover steep slopes with stone pitching and plant  grass on canal sections with high fill or  
dee
p
 in cu
t
; 
(
c
)
 in sections alon
g
 the river, encoura
g
e communities to 
p
ro
p
erl
y
 dis
p
ose of earth and stone to avoid 
Page  8
 
 
blocking rivers; (d) encourage farmers  to provide adequate drainage and (e) advise farmers to avoid excavating 
deep pits to obtain material for road or canal bank rehabilitation.  As described above, any activity requiring the use 
of land additional to the sites of existing scheme infrastructure will be implemented according to the guidelines 
specified in the Land Policy Framework for ARP III. 
 
A feasibility study for the major irrigation scheme (Caraulun Scheme) was carried out under ARP II. The study 
included an environmental analysis which recommended mitigation measures to address any potential negative 
environmental impacts.  These include (a) gravel management to maintain the river course during low and medium 
flows; (b) management of construction works during construction including disposal of sewage, disposal of spoil 
from canal de-silting, location of construction camp; (c) catchment management by protection and regreening in 
order to reduce the loss of vegetation on the slopes; and (d) addressing health issues such as potential for increased 
mosquito breeding grounds in temporary ponds.   The recommended mitigation plan is included in Table 3, Annex 
12 of the PAD.    
 
Sub-component 3.3 (Support to Agribusinesses)
. Training of farmers for activities related to seed production would 
include principles and practices of Integrated Pest Management to minimize the use of chemical pesticides, as well 
as create awareness about safe application and disposal methods.  In cases the project supplies limited pesticides to 
certified rice seed farmers, MAFF would exclude from procurement all Class 1 toxic pesticides (Table 2, Annex 12 
of the PAD), and follow the Government’s  “
Regulation on the Importation and Use of Agricultural Chemicals”. 
 
The feasibility study for the small-scale Coconut and Candlenut oil mills will include recommendations for the 
proper disposal of organic waste from the processing activity.   
 
MAFF – in close collaboration with the Ministry of Development and Environment, Division of Environment 
(DoE) – will be responsible for supervising the implementation of environmental management and monitoring 
procedures. Where required, MAFF may call on the DoE to assist in the identification of protected area boundaries 
and critical/significant natural habitat areas through joint field visits. As the capacity of both agencies to identify 
and monitor environmental mitigation measures is weak, training may need to be provided.   MAFF’s six monthly 
project reports will include an assessment of the level of compliance with environmental best practice and 
mitigation measures taken or recommended. DoE will be provided with a copy and invited to attend regular review 
meetings to provide advice in achieving compliance if necessary.  
 
Environmental mitigation measures proposed for Caraulun will be incorporated into the design and construction 
documents (including environmental clauses/technical specifications in contract document for contractors), and 
included in the terms of reference for the supervision consultants, ensuring that obligations are clearly 
communicated to the contractors.  Guidelines on environmental best practices for Component 1 and 2 will be 
included in the respective Operational Manuals, as well as the training materials for field facilitators.
  
 
D.5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard 
policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
 
Key stakeholders were involved throughout the process of project design, and as part of the mid-term review of 
ARP II that helped adjust the implementation of key components.  
 
MAFF contracted out a Feasibility Study for rehabilitation of major irrigation schemes which included an 
environmental and social analysis.  The study conducted extensive field surveys and questionnaires and maintained 
close consultation with MAFF and DoE.  
 
During pre-appraisal, IDA carried out an environmental review of lessons learned during ARP II implementation. 
The review involved field visits to four districts, a review of the findings of the Feasibility Study for its soundness, 
review of the environmental procedures adopted for ARP II, and discussions with key officials of DoE and MAFF.  
The environmental mitigation measures recommended for ARP III are a result of this review, and reflect solid 
lessons of experience with ARP II. 
 
The project also carried out an extensive social appraisal during February 2003, involving focus group discussions 
with 269 men and 125 women; case studies of light-to-medium damaged irrigation schemes rehabilitated under 
ARP I and II; and interviews with ke
y
 service 
p
roviders.  The social a
pp
raisal identified a 
p
otential concern over 
Page  9
 
 
planting project-funded seedlings on communal land for activities supported under Component 1. Discussions were 
held with existing Component 1 community groups to determine the possibility of incorporating broader community 
participation to mitigate potential conflict when the trees grew to harvest stage, and to require a replanting plan as 
part of proposal development.  As part of the feasibility study for Caraulun, discussions were held with potential 
beneficiaries, discussing project implementation and the potential benefits to the community.  
 
A disclosure process for informing potentially affected persons of their rights to compensation for land use was 
developed and integrated into project operation manuals. The design of ARP III reflects a combination of 
international best practices in safeguard measures, and lessons learned from ARP II implementation, complemented 
by the three above reviews.
 
 
E. Safeguards Classification
 (select one) 
 
[ ] S
1
. –The project has significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; where there are significant potential 
impacts related to several safeguard policies. 
\01
 S
2
. – One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited to their impact and are technically and 
institutionally manageable. 
[ ] S
3
. – No safeguard issues
 
[ ] S
F
. – Financial intermediary projects 
 
 
F. Disclosure Requirements
                                        
Date 
Environmental Analysis:   
Date of receipt by the Bank (draft)                               
August 18, 2003      
Date of “in-country” disclosure                                   
September 24, 2003       
Date of submission to InfoShop
                                    September 23, 2003       
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
 Not 
Applicable 
Note: Final Environmental Analysis submission and disclosure expected by September 29, 2003
 
Resettlement Framework (Land Policy Framework):  
Date of receipt by the Bank 
(expected)
 
September 29, 2003 (expected) 
Date of “in-country” disclosure 
September 29, 2003 (expected) 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
September 29, 2003 (expected) 
 
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:  
Date of receipt by the Bank 
Not Applicable 
Date of “in-country” disclosure 
Not Applicable
 
Date of submission to InfoShop                                    
Not Applicable
 
Dam Safety Management Plan:  
  
Date of receipt by the Bank 
Not Applicable 
Date of “in-country” disclosure 
Not Applicable 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
                        
Not Applicable
 
Others
:                                                                           Social Appraisal of ARP III 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
March 2003 
Date of “in-country” disclosure 
March 2003 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
September 23, 2003 
 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
 
Page  10
 
 
 
 
Section III – Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level 
 
OP/BP 4.01 - Environment Assessment: 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report?        
                 
Yes (Environmental Analysis) 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit review and approve the EA report?
 
    Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the grant?
              Yes 
 
OP/BP 4.04 - Natural Habitats:  
Would the project result in any significant conversion or degradation of critical natural habitats?  
No
 
If the project would result in significant conversion or degradation of other (non-critical) natural habitats, does the 
project include mitigation measures acceptable to the Bank
?                                
N/A 
 
OP 4.09 - Pest Management:  
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues
?                
Yes
 
Is a separate PMP required
?                                                                       
No 
If yes,  are PMP requirements included in project design?                       
N/A 
 
Draft OP 4.11 (OPN 11.03) - Cultural Property:  
Not Applicable
 
Does the EA include adequate measures?                                                                
Does the credit/loan incorporate mechanisms to mitigate the potential adverse impacts on physical cultural 
resources?   
                                             
                                                   
 
OD 4.20 - Indigenous Peoples: 
Not Applicable
 
H
as a separate indigenous people development plan been prepared in consultation with the Indigenous People?         
If yes, then did the Regional Social Development Unit review and approve the plan?  
If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design been reviewed and approved by the Regional Social 
Development Unit?       
                                                                                        
 
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement: 
Has a resettlement action plan, policy framework or policy process been 
prepared?                                                                              
Yes
    
If yes, then did the Regional Social Development Unit review and approve the plan / policy framework / policy 
process?                       
                                                                     
 In process
 
OP/BP 4.36 – Forests 
Has the sector-wide analysis of policy and institutional issues and constraints been carried out?  
Yes
 
Does the project design include satisfactory measures to overcome these constraints?                   
Yes 
Does the project finance commercial harvesting?                                                                              
No
 
If so, does it include provisions for certification system?                                                                   
N
/A                         
OP/BP 4.37 - Safety of Dams: 
Not Applicable 
Have dam safety plans been prepared?                                                                                           
    
Have the TORs as well as composition for the independent Panel of Experts (POE) been reviewed and approved by 
the Bank?                                                                                                                      
  
Has an Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP) been prepared and arrangements been made for public awareness 
and training?              
 
Page  11
 
 
                                                                                                                               
            
All Safeguard Policies
: 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities been prepared for the implementation of the 
safeguard measures?                                                                          
          
Yes 
Have safeguard measures costs been included in project cost?
                                     Yes 
Will the safeguard measures costs be funded as part of project implementation?
        Yes 
D
oes the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures?   
 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the borrower and the same been adequately 
reflected in the project legal documents?                                                                       
Yes 
 
 
OP 7.50 - Projects on International Waterways:   
 
Have the other riparians been notified of the project?
                              
 
N/A  
 
(an exception to the notification requirement was granted on September 17, 2003) 
                                             
If the project falls under one of the exceptions to the notification requirement, then has this been cleared with the 
Legal Department, and the memo to the RVP prepared and sent?            
Yes.  Clearance from LEGEN and EASES was received on September 17, 2003. 
 
What are the reasons for the exception?      Please explain: 
 
The reasons are as follows: 
 
(i) The proposed rehabilitation will not involve any major additions or alterations to existing schemes, but just 
rehabilitation of small schemes to restore  their full operating potential;  (ii) because the schemes are simply being 
rehabilitated, the water quantity requirements will remain the same in relation to the original schemes, with no 
decline in water quality as a result of increased abstraction; and (iii) the possibility that riparian owners in Indonesia 
would have an adverse impact on the schemes is considered very unlikely given the small size of the schemes (80-
140 ha each), the physio-geographical characteristics of the border (making it unlikely that dams, large captive 
storage reservoirs, major agricultural chemical disasters, or industrial complexes would be developed) and the small 
size of the schemes relative to the size of the catchment, ensuring that the water yield of basins is sufficient to support 
anticipated riparian demand. 
 
The only large irrigation scheme proposed for rehabilitation by the project (Caraulun) is located in central Timor, and 
does not share a waterway with Indonesia. 
 
Has the RVP approved such an exception?                                                   
Yes (September 17, 2003) 
 
OP 7.60 - Projects in Disputed Areas
: Not Applicable
 
Has the memo conveying all pertinent information on the international aspects of the project, including the 
procedures to be followed, and the recommendations for dealing with the issue, been prepared, cleared with the 
Legal Department and sent to the RVP?                                                                                    
Does the PAD/MOP include the standard disclaimer referred to in the OP?      
 
BP 17.50 - Public Disclosure:  
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's Infoshop?
                   
\01\02
Draft Environmental Analysis sent September 23, 2003 
\01\02
Draft Land Policy Framework expected by September 29, 2003 
 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a form and language that are understandable 
and accessible to project-affected groups and local NGOs?  
 Expected by September 29, 2003 
 
Page  12
 
 
Signed and submitted by:  
Task Team Leader: 
 
 
 
Sofia Bettencourt               Date  September 25, 2003 
 
Approved by: 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator 
Glenn Morgan  
 
Date  October 14, 2003 
 
Comments 
 
Sector Manager 
Mark D. Wilson   
Date   October 14, 2003 
 
Comments 
                                                                                                          
 
