Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
NEGOTIATIONS STAGE  
 
Project Name 
THIRD AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
General agriculture, fishing and forestry (10%); Irrigation and drainage 
(30%); General information and communication (15%); Animal 
production (20%); Agriculture marketing and trade (5%); General public 
sector administration (20%) 
Project ID 
P079320 
Borrower(s) 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [
\01
] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [
\01
] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD 
 
Date PID Prepared 
December 10, 2003 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
November 20, 2003 
Date of RVP Approval 
January 5, 2004 
 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Timor-Leste faces the double challenge of cementing its new political and socio-economic structure while 
meeting the rising expectations of its people.  Nearly 40 percent of the population remains poor, and 54-
68 percent of the rural households suffer from chronic food insecurity. These problems are partially 
natural – caused by periodic droughts and floods – and partially institutional: a legacy of the 
disempowerment and dependency that prevailed during the Indonesian administration. Despite 
rehabilitation of much of the infrastructure destroyed in 1999, employment in rural areas remains scarce 
(especially for the youth), markets are under-developed, and prices have fallen for major agriculture 
commodities, such as rice and coffee. This places considerable pressure on the new Ministry of 
Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (MAFF) which now operates with a staff of 180 and an annual budget 
of just US$1.8 million. 
 
MAFF’s goals are closely aligned with those of the 2002-07 National Development Plan: 
to reduce 
poverty in all sectors and regions, and to promote equitable and sustainable growth. 
  In order to halve 
poverty within 25 years, Timor-Leste will need to achieve agricultural growth rates close to 6 percent a 
year, promote broad-based participation in economic opportunities, and reduce population growth.   To 
address these challenges and encourage further national stability, MAFF prioritized all its programs in 
2003 according to the “
Road Map for Implementation of NDP Programs
”. The Road Map assigned 
highest priority to policy development; natural resources legislation and strategies; support to rural 
communities; information services; and coordination with donors and nongovernmental organizations 
(NGOs).  The Third Agriculture Rehabilitation Project (ARP III) was designed in accordance with these 
priorities as well as lessons learned from previous ARP implementation phases. 
 
Page  2
 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The first 
Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
 (ARP I; 2000-02; US$6.9 million) focused primarily on the 
rapid restoration of agriculture assets, irrigation infrastructure and restoration of vaccination services.                
The 
Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
 (ARP II; 2002-2004; US$8.9 million) continued irrigation 
rehabilitation, but also piloted a program of assistance to upland and coastal farmers, and expanded 
services to farmers in information dissemination, animal health and farmers associations.  It also 
supported policy studies and capacity building for MAFF staff.  
The proposed Third Agriculture Rehabilitation Project aims to 
strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of 
Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries and its development partners to assist rural communities in 
increasing their production and income in a sustainable
 
way.
   
The project was designed as ARP’s consolidation phase, with an emphasis on sustainability of activities, 
impact
 
of achievements, and quality of outputs. The estimated total costs are US$11.4 million equivalent, 
including € 6.8545 million (US$6.9 million equivalent) from the European Commission (EC), US$3.0 
million from the Trust Fund for East Timor (TFET), and US$1.5 million from the Government of Timor-
Leste. Key project outcomes will be measured through the following major impact indicators:  
Gfi
All major project activities integrated into MAFF programs and funded by the Government by the end 
of the project. 
Gfi
Average rice yields in rehabilitated irrigated areas increasing from 1.5 to 2.0 metric tons per hectare 
per crop by the end of the project (EOP); Cropping intensities in Caraulun scheme at 160% by EOP. 
Gfi
70 percent of farmer beneficiaries satisfied with the services received.  
 
 
The sustainability and integration of project activities into MAFF will be assessed through the FY08 
budget allocation. MAFF is conducting a crop yield survey which would serve as a baseline to determine 
the impact of irrigation schemes.  MAFF will also design a farmer servicing survey to measure a 
satisfaction index for services provided. 
 
 
Timor-Leste’s agriculture goals are (a) 
to attain food security and improve self-sufficiency; and 
(b)
 to 
generate rural employment and increase income, through farming system diversification and agro-
industrial development.
  The project would contribute to these goals by strengthening MAFF’s main 
programs of assistance to rural communities, while delivering essential services in the areas of agriculture 
information, animal health, and agri-business support. Together with other donor-funded projects, ARP 
III would also help MAFF develop key agricultural and natural resources policies and strategies needed to 
clarify the roles of the government, rural communities and civil society in the sustainable management of 
the sector. 
3.  Rationale for Bank  Involvement 
 
This project is the third phase of the Agriculture Rehabilitation Program in Timor-Leste, a US$17.8 
million grant from TFET executed by MAFF and supervised by the International Development 
Association (IDA) of the World Bank.   ARP has been the major program of donor assistance to MAFF 
since 2000, starting with the then-Division of Agriculture Affairs.  By emphasizing flexibility and 
periodic adjustments based on lessons learned, ARP helped MAFF adjust to the challenges posed by the 
reconstruction phase (ARP I), transition phase (ARP II) and now the sustainability phase of post-conflict 
recovery (ARP III). 
Page  3
 
 
Since early 2001, donors such as AusAID, UNDP/UNOPs, FAO, Portugal, Japan, GTZ, CIDA and 
USAID initiated programs in rural development, specializing by district and/or topic, and operating 
generally within a programmatic framework discussed annually during Joint Donor Missions.  Total 
donor commitments to rural development in FY03 amounted to close to US$24 million. This provided a 
much needed supplement to MAFF’s limited budget (US$1.8 million in FY04), but has also stretched its 
capacity and raised the need for further donor coordination.   By pooling EC and TFET resources under 
the ARP program umbrella, the project will further help build staff capacity, coordinate donor assistance, 
and institutionalize key priority programs within the Ministry. 
 
 
4. Description 
 
The project will include four major components: 
Gfi
Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management (US$1.3 million) 
Gfi
Irrigation Rehabilitation and Management (US$3.5 million) 
Gfi
Services to Farmers (US$4.2 million) 
Gfi
Program Management (US$2.4 million) 
 
The first component would be funded fully by TFET.  The remaining components would be co-financed 
by EC and TFET, with TFET covering the first year’s activities, and EC expected to cover years 2 to 3.  
 
Component 1 – Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management,
 will support MAFF’s 
main assistance program to 
upland and coastal communities
. It will promote improved self-reliance and 
natural resources management to strengthen communities’ resilience and make them less vulnerable to 
external shocks (such as periodic droughts and chronic food insecurity). It targets an estimated 50 villages 
in seven districts
1
 – Dili, Lautem, Liquiça, Manufahi, Covalima, Baucau, and Oecussi, or approximately 
10,000 rural households  (8 percent of Timor-Leste’s rural families). About 30 percent of direct 
beneficiaries are expected to be women.   
The project will finance small village group grants, services, training for farmer groups, MAFF staff, 
facilitators and partner NGOs, workshops and cross visits, vehicles, office equipment, and incremental 
operating costs in support of the following activities: 
 
• 
Continuing technical and facilitation support to 30 pilot villages initiated during ARP II 
• 
Expansion to about 20 new villages, including provision of small village grants. 
 
Component 2 – Irrigation Rehabilitation and Management
, will support MAFF’s main assistance 
program to farmers in 
lowland irrigated areas
, based on procedures developed during ARP I and II. The 
component will target about 4,000 rural families in all 13 districts. About 20 percent of members of Water 
User Associations (WUAs) are expected to be women. 
The project will finance civil works, construction supervision, services, training, cross visits, farming 
inputs, office equipment, vehicles, and incremental operating costs in support of: 
 
• 
Community rehabilitation of small irrigation schemes and rural access roads; 
• 
Rehabilitation of the Caraulun irrigation scheme in Manufahi district; 
• 
Support to Water User Associations (WUAs) and capacity building for MAFF staff;  
• 
Survey and mapping of irrigation schemes. 
 
                                                
 
1
 Similar programs are being implemented by UNDP/UNOPs, AusAID and Portugal in the remaining six districts. 
Page  4
 
 
Component 3 – Services to Farmers
, will help institutionalize three basic MAFF 
services to farmers
: 
Information, Animal Health, and Agri-Business support.  
 
Sub-Component 3.1.  Information to Farmers
, will increase MAFF’s capacity to provide information to 
farmers (targeting most of the 450,000 people with radio access), and foster two-way communication with 
rural areas. The project will fund technical assistance, information materials and programs, equipment, 
small works, training and cross visits, translation services, and incremental operating costs in support of:  
 
• 
Information programming, including face-to-face communication and mass media.  
• 
Support to MAFF’s Liaison Secretariat with the Consultative Group of International Agricultural 
Research (CGIAR) and other international centers of expertise. 
• 
Pilot community-based information networks at the district level. 
• 
Rehabilitation of a network of automated agro-meteorological stations and rain gauges. 
Sub-Component 3.2.  Sustainable Animal Health Services, 
will target the estimated 567,000 rural people 
living in households which own livestock, a major determinant of rural incomes.  The project will finance 
technical assistance, vaccines and veterinary supplies, equipment,  vaccination campaigns, vehicles, 
training and cross visits, and incremental operating costs for:  
 
• 
National vaccination campaigns  
• 
Replacement of cold chain equipment. 
• 
Training and regulatory support to a network of private Village Livestock Workers (VLWs). 
• 
Capacity building for livestock staff. 
 
Sub-Component 3.3.  Support to Agri-businesses
,  will strengthen MAFF’s advisory services to rural 
producer organizations, as well as help promote key niche markets targeting some 1,200-1,500 grain seed 
growers (mostly rice and maize), and about 210 farming families involved in niche market commodities 
(such as candlenut and coconut oil production). The project will finance technical assistance, small works, 
agriculture and office equipment, farm inputs, training, and incremental operating costs for: 
 
• 
Support to seed producers.   
• 
Support to priority niche market commodities.  
• 
Strengthening of agri-business support services in MAFF.   
Component 4 – Program Management,
 will help MAFF to 
manage the project
, continue to develop 
key 
national policies
, and strengthen the Ministry’s managerial and technical 
capacity
. 
Sub-Component 4.1. Policy and Strategy Development
, will fund high-level advisors and consultative 
workshops to help MAFF develop priority sectoral and institutional policies and strategies.   
 
Sub-Component 4.2. Project Management and Capacity Building,
 will provide technical assistance, 
office, computer equipment and furnishings, workshops, training, study tours, and incremental operating 
costs in support of the following activities: 
 
• 
Priority equipment and furnishings for District, Regional and Central Agricultural Offices; 
• 
Priority management and technical training for MAFF staff; and 
• 
Project management support, including auditing of project accounts.
 
Though the project is complex, the activities are for the most part a consolidation of previous ARP 
phases, for which there is already experience in MAFF. Continuation of support is justified given the long 
lead time needed to institutionalize programs within an emerging institution.  
 
 
Page  5
 
 
5. Financing 
 
Source (US$M) 
 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE 
 
1.5 
EUROPEAN COMMISSION (IN EUROs) 
SPECIAL FINANCING (TFET) 
6.9 
3.0 
 Total 
11.4 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The project will promote several partnerships:  MAFF will involve Non-Governmental Organizations 
(NGOs) in implementation of the 
Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management 
component, and establish a Natural Resources Management Steering Committee with interested donors 
and NGOs to share lessons of experience. An Irrigation Network will also be promoted to share 
experiences in irrigation.   Under 
Information to Farmers,
  MAFF will further strengthen partnerships 
with international research organizations and re-activate the Information Forum; under 
Support to Agri-
Business, 
MAFF is expected to partner with ACIAR/Seeds for Life for provision of certified seeds, and 
with GTZ for support to coconut and candlenut oil production.  A Policy Advisory Group, Agri-Business 
Consultative Group and Livestock Network are also expected to be established with interested partners. A 
project indicator has been adopted to monitor the progress of these partnerships.  
 
MAFF will be the executing agency.  Project components are already being implemented by different 
MAFF Divisions, thus reducing the number of activities each Division is responsible for.  The only new 
activities considered (see above) will be contracted out or, in the case of agri-business support, 
implemented by trained MAFF staff and advisors. 
To further institutionalize the program, the Project Management Unit formed under ARP I and II will be 
absorbed into the MAFF structure.  The Project Director (currently the Permanent Secretary of MAFF) 
will be responsible for project management and coordination, supported by a Deputy Project Director, and 
Project Management Advisor, and Financial and Procurement Advisors assisting the MAFF’s Budget and 
Procurement Units. The MAFF Management Team (comprising all Director Generals and Directors) will 
continue to be responsible for policy and managerial decisions.    
 
Project activities will be implemented at 3 levels:  at the 
village level
, by the village/sub-village 
(
suco/aldeia)
 and farmers’ groups; at the 
district level
 by district agricultural staff  and their partners (e.g. 
NGOs);  and at the 
central level
 by the MAFF divisions responsible for each program. 
 
MAFF has recruited a total of 180 national and district staff, and plans to increase its staff to 261 in 2004-
05. Many have received training under various donor-funded projects. However, their capacity needs to 
be further strengthened, particularly in technical, managerial and facilitation skills. To supplement their 
capacity, international advisors will be contracted in specialized areas, and evaluated periodically with 
emphasis on their effectiveness in capacity transfer.  
  
 
The financial management, fund flow, procurement and reporting would follow Government and IDA 
procedures already tested and established during ARP I and II, with further refinements to the Operational 
Manuals to reflect lessons of experience.  MAFF has recruited full-time financial and procurement staff, 
and will appoint a monitoring and evaluation specialist prior to project effectiveness. 
 
 
Page  6
 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
MAFF designed the project based on its past ARP experience and its emerging priorities. The Ministry 
earmarked US$1.5 million in counterpart funding to the project (about 29% of its annual budget) as a sign 
of its continuing commitment and integration of ARP activities in its core programs. Recurrent costs were 
realistically estimated and agreed with MAFF management. 
 
The project was designed with a focus on sustainability.  Grant funding for national vaccination 
campaigns, community irrigation and roads, and incremental operating costs will be progressively phased 
out: EC/TFET will fund them at a declining rate of 75%, 50% and 25%, during years 1 to 3 of the project, 
with the Government funding the remaining expenditures.  Component 1, though initially reliant on 
contracted facilitators, will progressively devolve responsibilities to local NGOs and extension staff to 
build permanent capacity within MAFF. Reliance on external technical assistance is also expected to 
decline as the pilot projects mature and technical manuals are prepared.  The budget for the component is 
consistent with a planned post-project expansion of 10-13 villages a year (1 per district). 
 
Component 2 places a strong emphasis on WUAs to help ensure future operation and maintenance. 
Repairs of the major irrigation scheme (Caraulun) will only  proceed after a network of WUAs is 
established. The estimated recurrent cost burden to the Government is being incorporated into forward 
budget estimates.    
 
Component 3 – particularly the VLW and communication activities – was designed to meet MAFF’s 
severe extension constraints.   By training a network of private VLWs to provide simple animal health 
services to farmers for a fee, MAFF will help address its critical staff shortages. By establishing 
partnerships with CGIAR centers and investing in radio and e-mail communication,
 
MAFF also hopes to 
access global specialized advice on a least-cost basis.  Fully automated agro-meteorological equipment 
was selected to minimize operating costs. 
 
Sub-Component 4.1 (Policy and Strategy Development) will help MAFF formulate a long-term sectoral 
strategy and exit strategy for the ARP program. Reliance on foreign advisors remains a risk to 
sustainability, but the project will invest heavily on capacity building and on-the-job training of 
counterpart staff. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
ARP III is based on key lessons from ARP I and II and from the reconstruction period (2000-01):  
 
Gfi
The need for flexibility and periodic evaluations.
 In a fluid, post-conflict environment, there is a 
need to adopt a phased, flexible approach to implementation, with periodic evaluations to 
document lessons of experience and adjust the program to emerging conditions.  
Gfi
A ‘Farmer First’ approach. 
Since the needs of rural households are diversified and not focused 
on any single sub-sector, service delivery must respond to their multiple needs in a timely and 
effective manner. This ‘farmer first’ approach emphasizes inter-sectoral, demand-based 
assistance, and further strengthening of farmers’ groups and community-based organizations. As 
an example, rehabilitation of larger irrigation schemes under ARP I and II proved insufficient to 
raise yields without parallel WUA and extension support to farmers.   
Gfi
Balanced investments between irrigated and upland areas
. While ARP I focused primarily on 
irrigated areas, subsequent assessments stressed the need to also assist upland areas and promote 
food security through farm system diversification and strengthened self-reliance. 
Page  7
 
 
Gfi
Direct grant assistance to communities
. During the rehabilitation phase (2000-01), MAFF faced 
major difficulties distributing a small number of valuable inputs to a large number of needy 
farmers. By contrast, community irrigation, which relied on contracts with farmers’ groups, was 
well received and helped foster local ownership. The 2001 Donors’ Mission recommended a shift 
from input provision to direct grant assistance to rural communities. 
Gfi
Ensuring sustainability. 
Many donor-funded projects during the rehabilitation phase paid high 
wages for rural labor. While this may have been necessary to help create cash-earning 
opportunities in rural areas, it also promoted further dependence on external assistance.  Lessons 
learned point to a need to promote further community self-reliance, and not pay for activities that 
communities are expected to maintain or support on their own once the project ceases.   
Gfi
Policy and strategy support.  
ARP II has proved the value of reserving a pool of funds for MAFF 
to contract high-level policy advisors.  However, the scope of advisory services needs to remain 
flexible to meet evolving needs. 
 
Gfi
Monitoring droughts and floods.  
The chronic effects of droughts and floods on food security 
makes it important for MAFF to collect reliable agro-meteorological data and strengthen its 
contacts with international monitoring systems, as well as promote ‘no regrets’ adaptation
2
 
practices amongst vulnerable communities.  
Gfi
Capacity building.  
Lessons from ARP I and II indicate that foreign advisors may be needed for 
longer periods than originally envisaged, particularly in specialized fields such as project 
management, procurement and financial management.  In addition, capacity transfer cannot be 
ensured by single training events, as staff turn-over is high. Sectoral and farmer training are also 
best left to MAFF divisions to closely integrate with their operational programs.  
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
The project’s Environmental Screening Category is 
B
.  The project’s Safeguard Screening Category is 
S2.   
A few safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are technically and 
institutionally manageable.  
 
Aside from OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), the project triggers the following safeguard policies: 
(a) Natural Habitats; (b) Forests; (c) Pest Management; (d) Involuntary Resettlement; and (e) 
International Waterways.     
Natural Habitats: 
All community based irrigation and farm-to-market access roads proposed for 
rehabilitation under the project will be located outside protected areas (one of the criteria used in their 
selection). Component 1, however, may be carried out in and around natural habitat areas.  The negative 
list excludes any activity which may impact adversely on important or critical natural habitats, including 
those at altitudes above 2000 meters, in mangrove areas, wetlands, or coral reefs. 
Forests:
  Component 1 will include community-based forest management activities, such as reforestation 
of community-owned forest land, and sustainable utilization of non-timber forest products in natural 
forests within village boundaries (e.g. bamboo or honey).  It will not involve harvesting timber from 
natural forests.   
Pest Management:
 This policy may be triggered in limited occasions. Under the Irrigation Rehabilitation 
component, and Agri-business support to seed producers, it is possible that farmers may use limited 
amounts of pesticides to control pests or diseases.  In case pesticides need to be provided by the project in 
                                                
 
2
 ‘
No regrets’ adaptation are measures – such as watershed management – that decrease local vulnerability against climatic 
events, and which are beneficial regardless of the exact impact of the event in that location.  
Page  8
 
 
support of these activities, MAFF will exclude all Class I toxic pesticides and Class II moderately 
hazardous pesticides. MAFF will also provide training on principles of Integrated Pest Management and 
safe application and disposal of pesticides. 
International Waterways.
  Some small irrigation schemes proposed for rehabilitation may be located in 
the six international waterways which Timor-Leste shares with Indonesia. Given that the rehabilitation 
works would not involve any major additions or alterations of existing schemes, and that no impacts are 
foreseen on the quantity or quality of water to/from Indonesian riparians, an exception to the requirement 
to inform Indonesian riparians was granted on September 17, 2003.  During implementation, any 
proposed community schemes that may potentially fall under the policy will be reviewed in consultation 
with IDA to ensure that they qualify for the exception.   The need for notification will be reconsidered if 
required under future treaties with Indonesia. 
Involuntary Resettlement.
  No involuntary resettlement or land acquisition which results in loss of 
income is expected to take place as a result of project activities.  However, as small amounts of 
community land may be required for community-based and owned activities under Components 1 and 2.1 
(Community Irrigation and Roads Rehabilitation), 
Policy Guidelines for the Negotiations over the Use 
and Development of Land for ARP III
 were adopted for the project to ensure that voluntary land donations 
are not made under duress, and that appropriate compensation is provided from within the community.  In 
the rehabilitation of the Caraulun irrigation scheme, there is a remote possibility that small areas of land 
around the existing intake and canals may need to be acquired by the Government.  Should this be 
needed, the Guidelines provide for state compensation.  In case communities in Caraulun decide to 
establish tertiary canals under community irrigation contracts, the same procedures as for sub-component 
2.1 would apply.  Agro-meteorological stations and rain gauges will be located in government land.  
During pre-appraisal, IDA conducted a field review to assess how environmental safeguards were applied 
to ARP II activities.  This review confirmed the absence of major environmental impacts under the ARP 
program and was used to adjust the environmental mitigation measures already adopted under the 
program, in order to improve their applicability.  ARP II also funded a major feasibility study in 
Caraulun, which included an environmental and social analysis. This was reviewed by IDA at pre-
appraisal.  The environmental mitigation measures proposed will be incorporated into the bidding 
documents and terms of reference of the supervisory engineering overseeing the scheme’s rehabilitation.  
Mitigation measures for other project activities are being incorporated into the respective Operational 
Manuals. 
MAFF will be responsible for supervising the environmental mitigation measures and social safeguards, 
with assistance from the Division of Environment (DoE) whenever necessary.  The bi-annual progress 
reports will include a section on environmental and social issues, a copy of which will be provided to 
DoE. 
The social appraisal, environmental analysis, and Policy Guidelines for the Negotiations over the Use of 
and Development of Land for ARP III have been disclosed in-country and are available publicly at  
InfoShop and the Project Information Center in Dili.  Other assessments – including the Feasibility Study 
for Major Damaged Irrigation Schemes – are available at MAFF’s office in Dili.  Past ARP supervision 
reports are summarized in the publicly available TFET Report to the Trustee. MAFF will ensure adequate 
public disclosure of project activities, and availability of relevant documents in publicly accessible 
locations.  
 
 
 
 
Page  9
 
 
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
Analysis of Timor Lorosa’e Household Survey for Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, March 
2002. 
Agriculture Rehabilitation Project, Implementation Completion Report, The World Bank, March 25, 
2003-06-12.  
East Timor: National Development Plan, Planning Commission, Dili, May 2002. 
Environmental Analysis for ARP III.  Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries.  October 16, 2003. 
Feasibility Study Report of Seical Up, Maliana I, Uatolari I and Caraulun Irrigation Schemes, SMEC 
International PTY LTD, 6 Volumes, December 10, 2002.  
National Prioritization and Sequencing, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, February 17, 
2003.  
Operational Manual for ARP Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management, Ministry of 
Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries.  November 2003. 
Operation Manual for Community Irrigation and Road Rehabilitation, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry 
and Fisheries. November 2003. 
Procurement Manual for ARP III, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. November 2003. 
Project Implementation Plan of ARP III, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, November 2003.  
Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project, Project Appraisal Document, The World Bank, September 28, 
2001.  
Social Appraisal Report for the Third Agriculture Rehabilitation Project, The World Bank, March 2003. 
The Road Map (for the implementation of the National Development Programs), 
Republica Democratica 
de Timor-Leste
, Dili, April 15, 2003.  
Timor-Leste Third Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (ARP III) Policy Guidelines for the Negotiations 
over the Use and Development of Land for ARP III. Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and 
Fisheries.  November 15, 2003.  
Timor-Leste:  Proposed Third Agriculture Rehabilitation Project (PO79320):  (Approved) Request for an 
Exception to OP 7.50 on International Waterways.  September 17, 2003. 
 
 
 
  
Page  10
 
 
 
 
11. Contact point 
 
Mr. Cesar Jose da Cruz 
Permanent Secretary 
Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries 
Dili, Timor-Leste 
Fax: 670-390-325121  
E-mail:  
MAFF_ARP@yahoo.com
 
 
and 
 
Sofia U. Bettencourt 
Senior Natural Resources Economist 
World Bank Office, Australia 
Sydney, Australia 
Tel: 61-2-9223-7773 
Fax. 61-2-9223-9903 
Email: Sbettencourt@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
