IPP18
June 2002
Draft
Tribal bevelopment Plan
for the
Technical Education Quality Improvement Programme
Government of India
June, 2002
By
fationafProject Implementation tVnit
18.A, Sector 16A, fAOI(DJ4, Gautam BudTha fAVagar -201 301
'Uttar cPradesh
FILE COPYn



Contents                  Page
No.
SECTION - I TECHNICAL EDUCATION IN INDIA
1.0     BACKGROUND                             1
1.1     INSTITUTIONS OF IMPORTANCE             2
1.2     MAJOR ISSUES IN TECHNICAL EDUCATION    3
1.3     PROGRAMME RATIONALE                   4
1.4     THE   TECHNICAL  EDUCATION   QUALITY  6
IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMME OF GOVERNMENT
OF INDIA (TEQIP)
1.5     SUMMARY OF PROGRAMME DESCRIPTION       7
SECTION - II THE SCHEDULE CASTE AND SCHEDULE TRIBES
(SC/STs)
2.0     BACKGROUND                             9
2.1     PROVISIONS FOR EDUCATION OF SCs IN NPE  10
1986
2.2     PROVISIONS FOR EDCUCATION OF STs IN NPE  11
1986
2.3     SPECIAL MINISTRIES FOR SC/STs         12
SECTION - III BASELINE INFORMATION ABOUT SC/STs
3.0     EDUCATIONAL AND SOCIAL BACKWARDNESS   12
SECTION - IV INITIATIVES TAKEN BY GOI FOR UPLIFTMENT
OF SC/STs
4.0     GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PLAN OUTLAY FOR   15
SCs/STs
4.1     THE INITIATIVES BY MHRD               15
4.2     ACCESS TO   HIGHER AND   ENGINEERING  17
EDUCATION
4.3     RESERVATION POLICY                    17
4.4     CENTRAL SCHEMES FOR SC/STs            18
4.5     SPECIAL    EDUCATION    DEVELOPMENT   19
PROGRAMMEME FOR GIRLS BELONGING TO SCs
IN VERY LOW LITERACY LEVEL DISTRICTS
4.6     EDUCATIONAL SCHEMES FOR SCs /STs IN THE  19
FIVE YEAR PLANS
4.7     SPECIAL CENTRAL ASSISTANCE TO SPECIAL  19
COMPONENT PLAN FOR SC
4.8     POST MATRIC SCHOLARSHIP FOR SCs & OBCs,  20
BOOK BANK & OVERSEAS SCHOLARSHIPS
My DoCIRajeev/Tribal Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/2002/5 36 PM



Contents                  Page
No.
4.9     HOSTELS FOR BOYS AND GIRLS BELONGING  20
TO SCs AND OBCs
4.10    COACHING SCHEMES FOR SCs, OBCs AND    20
MINORITIES
4.11    FINANCIAL AND OTHER CONCESSIONS TO    21
RESERVED CATEGORY STUDENTS
4.12    OTHER ENABLING MECHANISMS AFFECTING   21
ENTRY TO PROFESSIONAL COURSES (PETCs)
SECTION - V TRIBAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN
5.0     NEED FOR A TRIBAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN    22
5.1    IMPACT OF THE PROGRAMME ON SC/STs      22
SECTION - VI LEGAL FRAMEWORK
6.0     CONSTITUTIONAL   PROVISIONS,  LAWS,   23
REGULATIONS AND ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS
AFFECTING SCs AND STs
6.1     CONSTITUTIONAL PROVISIONS FOR THE STs  23
6.2     GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL MECHANISMS        24
SECTION - VII REMEDIAL ACTIONS
7.0     RESERVATION POLICY                    24
7.1     REMEDIAL  TEACHING  IN  STATE  LEVEL  24
INSTITUTIONS
7.2     COUNSELING AND ADVISORY SERVICES      24
7.3     MONITORING AND EVALUATION             25
BENCHMARKS
SECTION - VIII POLICIES/SCHEMES/PROGRAMME     26
TASKS RELATED TO SC/ST AND
ITS IMPLEMENTATION UNDER THE
PROGRAMME
My DoC/Rajeev/Tribal Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/2002/5 36 PM



SECTION - I TECHNICAL EDUCATION IN INDIA
1.0   BACKGROUND
Since Independence the technical education has grown into a fairly
large-sized system, offering opportunities for education and training
in a wide variety of trades and disciplines at certificate, diploma,
degree, postgraduate and doctoral levels in institutions located
throughout the country. Even though the system boasts of
institutions comparable to the best in the world, quality of education
offered in the majority of institutions leaves much to be desired.
In the year 1947-48, the country had 38-degree level institutions
with intake capacity of 2500; and 53 diploma level institutions with
intake capacity of 3670. The intake for postgraduates was 70.
There was rapid expansion of the system in the next 20 years. By
1967-68, the number of degree level institutions had increased to
137 with intake capacity of 25,000; and for diploma to 284
institutions with intake capacity of 47,000.
In the next 10 years (in 1977), the system capacity increased only
marginally to admit 30,000 students for degree courses, 60,000 for
diploma courses and 6,000 for postgraduate courses.
The system capacity increased very rapidly in the next 20 years,
with the major role being played by the private sector. The system
by 1997 had 547 degree institutions with admission capacity of
about 131,000; and 1100 diploma institutions with admission
capacity of about 184,000. Admission capacity for postgraduate
courses had been increased to 16,900. Out turn of doctorates was
about 370 annually.
In the year 2000, the total size of the system had increased to 4146
institutions with approved intake capacity of 544,660. These include
838 engineering degree institutions with admission capacity of
232,000 students; and 1224 engineering diploma institutions with
admission capacity of 188,000. Approximately, two-thirds of these
institutions were in the private sector. Postgraduate education was
offered in 246 institutions with admission capacity of 21,460.
My Doc/Rajeev/TrIbal Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/2002/5 36 PM



1.1 INSTITUTIONS OF IMPORTANCE
GOI and the State/UT Governments have played an important role
in the development of technical education by establishing a large
number of fully funded and aided technical institutions and by
providing adequate policy support.
At the apex of the technical education system in India are the seven
Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) located at Mumbai, Delhi,
Kanpur, Kharagpur, Chennai, Guwahati and Roorkee, established
with the objective of imparting world-class education. These have
been established by the Bureau of Technical Education (BTE) of GOI
and are directly funded by it.
The IISc Bangalore was established to offer postgraduate education
and to conduct research in various areas of basic sciences,
engineering and technology. It is yet another world-class institution
and is directly funded by the BTE.
The Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs) located in six cities
(Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Calicut, Kolkata, Indore and Lucknow) are
institutions of excellence established by the BTE with the objective
of imparting high quality management education and training,
conducting research and providing consultancy services in the field
of management to various sectors of the Indian economy.
In the second tier are the 17 Regional Engineering Colleges (RECs).
These have been established, one each in the major States, to meet
the growing requirement of trained technical manpower for various
developmental Programmes. On the basis of the recommendations
of a High Powered Review Committee, GOI has renamed 7 RECs
(Allahabad, Bhopal, Calicut, Jaipur, Nagpur, Rourkela and Silchar)
as National Institutes of Technology (NIT) and declared them as
deemed universities for ensuring high standards of education and
research in these colleges on the pattern of IITs.
Over the years, the BTE has also established several other institutes
for imparting quality education and conducting research in
specialised areas. These include the Indian Institute of Information
Technology (IIIT) at Allahabad; Indian Institute of Information
Technology & Management (IIITM) at Gwalior; National Institute for
Training in Industrial Engineering (NITIE) at Mumbai; National
Institute of Foundry & Forge Technology (NIFFT) at Ranchi; Indian
School of Mines at Dhanbad; Sant Longowal Institute of Engineering
& Technology (SLIET) at Longowal; North-Eastern Institute of
Science & Technology (NERIST) at Itanagar; School of Planning &
My Doc/Rajeev/Tribal Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/2002/5 36 PM   2



Architecture (SPA) at New Delhi; and 4 Technical Teachers' Training
Institutes (lTTIs) at Kolkata, Chennai, Bhopal and Chandigarh.
In addition to the above, there are a number of universities and
deemed universities that have earned a name for themselves.
These include Anna University in Chennai; Jadavpur University in
Kolkata; Bengal Engineering College at Sibpur; Birla Institute of
Technology at Pilani; Birla Institute of Technology & Science at
Ranchi; Thapar Institute of Engineering & Technology, Patalia;
Institute of Technology of BHU at Varanasi; Punjab Engineering
College at Chandigarh; and Pune Engineering College at Pune.
1.2 MAJOR ISSUES IN TECHNICAL EDUCATION
Despite the efforts of the MHRD in implementing the National Policy
on Education-1986 (revised 1992) and of the AICTE in regulating
the technical education system and ensuring quality, several
weaknesses have occurred in the system. Some of these are:
a) Due to multiple controls on the system, most institutions
lack authority in matters of faculty appointments, student
admissions, structure and content of programmes, student
evaluation, and financial management;
b) Resource constraint combined with low resources utilization
efficiency;
c) Wastage of available resources in the form of high dropout
and failure rates;
d) Poor quality and relevance of programme offerings due to
infrequent revision of curricula; delays in the conduct of
examinations and declaration of results; and
e) Low quality of teachers and severe teacher shortages in
areas critical for enhancing economic competitiveness (an
AICTE estimate puts the total teacher shortage at 4500
during the year 2000, and this figure is likely to increase to
5000 unless schemes are devised to induct industry
personnel for teaching  and   a  larger  number  of
postgraduates join the teaching profession).
The informal sector forms an important component of Indian
economy. Selected polytechnics are being provided with central
assistance by the BTE to develop trained manpower in the informal
sector of the economy and the local community. However, the
ongoing efforts are not adequate to meet the requirements of the
informal sector and the community.
My DoclRajeev/Tribal Plan Last(13 0502)/6125/2002/5 36 PM   3



1.3 PROGRAMME RATIONALE
It has been recognized that only by competing successfully in the
globally interdependent world economy, can aspiration of Indians be
met.   For this to occur, production of technical manpower of
international standards is a precondition.
For overall development of each state and the country as a whole,
investment in technical education is a must. GOI and states have
been investing to produce quality manpower. Private initiative has
also come but only in those areas where substantial demand has
arisen. Because of lack of investment from private providers in
areas that are crucial for nation's development (but may not have
easy returns, e.g., new and emerging technologies, research etc.),
public funding of technical education is necessary to develop
manpower in the crucial areas of market demand.
Indian policy framework (NPE-1986 and revised in 1992) and
planned investment for the last 50 years has resulted in production
of internationally acceptable manpower through such institutions as
the Indian Institutes of Technology, the Indian Institutes of
Management, etc. However, because policies have not been
implemented in the right spirit in all other institutions in the
country, the overall picture considering all engineering and
polytechnic institutions in the country is not encouraging. Efforts are
needed to bring all these institutions to a high standard and
improve the quality and responsiveness of the system as a whole.
Recognizing the importance of technical education for national
development, the country has committed itself to the development
of quality technical manpower, and already taken several policy
initiatives. These are:
a)   National Technology Policy Statement (1983)
b)   National Policy on Education-1986 (revised 1992)
c)   Technology Policy Vision for India 2020 (1996)
d)   National Policy Initiative for Technician  Education
(1998)
e)   Information Technology Policy (2000)
f)   India  as  Knowledge   Superpower:  Strategy  for
Transformation (2001)
My Doc/Raleev/Tribal Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/2002/5 36 PM   4



Strategies  for implementation  of policy  directions  through
transformation of the technical education system have been
developed through the work of several committees. These include:
a)   Mashelkar Committee Report on Regional Engineering
Colleges (1998)
b)   Rama   Rao  Committee  Report on   Post Graduate
Education in Engineering and Technology (1999)
c)   Indiresan Committee Report on Technical Teachers'
Training Institutes (2000)
d)   Draft Policy  Guidelines for Training  Teachers of
Polytechnics and Engineering Colleges (2000)
e)   IT Manpower Advisory Committee (2000)
f)   Raju Committee Report on Networking of Engineering
Institutions (2001)
g)   Swaminadhan Committee Report on Mobilization of
Additional Resources for Technical Education
There are several other initiatives planned. These are:
a)   Mission on management of technical education
b)   Upgrading Regional Engineering Colleges to National
Institutes  of Technology, and  granting  Deemed
University status to some of them
c)   Conducting national level competitive examination for
admission to engineering colleges (this has already been
initiated)
d)   Expanding the role of Technical Teachers' Training
Institutes to include staff development for engineering
colleges
e)   Encouraging private sector institutions to attain very
high standards
Because of shortcomings in the system restricting production of
quality manpower, the GOI has decided to reform and enable the
system through systemic transformation supported by reforms in
policies governing the functioning the technical education sub-
sector. This is to be achieved through intensive drive for excellence
in well-performing engineering colleges and some selected
polytechnics to make the system much more demand driven,
quality  conscious  and  responsive  to  rapid  economic  and
technological change occurring both at national and international
levels. The system is planned to be reformed to not only address
the needs of the organized sector of the economy but to also cover
the needs of unorganized and rural sectors.
My Doc/Rajeev/Tribal Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/2002/5 36 PM   5



Through the well established policies, planned strategies, and GOI's
and state's vision of development for technical education system,
the ground has been thoroughly prepared for the take-off stage
which should bring in far reaching quality improvement in the
technical education system. The Technical Education Quality
Improvement Programme of the GOI would support ongoing efforts
of the Central Government/UTs and State Governments in this
direction.
1.4 THE TECHNICAL EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT
PROGRAMME OF GOVERNMENT OF INDIA (TEQIP)
1.4.1  PROGRAMME      GOAL: The Technical Education Quality
Improvement Programme of Government of India (TEQIP) of the
GOI aims at improvement of quality of engineering education
through systemic transformation of the technical education sub-
sector into a dynamic, demand-driven, quality conscious, efficient
and forward looking system, responsive to rapid economic and
technological developments occurring  both  at national and
international levels.
1.4.2 PROGRAMME OBJECTIVES : The above strategy is to be
implemented through 3 primary objectives:
a) Reforming of policies that govern the engineering
education system for creating an environment in which
institutions can, with autonomy and accountability,
achieve their own set targets for excellence and sustain
the same.
b) Supporting development plans of competitively selected
institutions for achieving higher standards.
c) Improving the overall technical education management
system at central, state and institutional levels for
improved planning and decision making through policy
research,  quality  assurance  mechanisms   and
educational management information system.
The Programme aims to support production of high quality
technical professionals through reforms in the engineering
education system for fostering and propagating excellence. This is
to be achieved by (a) developing competitively selected institutions
as lead centers, (b) synergistic networking of neighboring
institutions, (c) promoting active linkages with industry and
community, and (d) enhancing system management capacity.
My DoC/Rajeev/Tribal Plan Last(13 0502)/6125/2002/5 36 PM   6



1.5 SUMMARY OF PROGRAMME DESCRIPTION
The Programme has 2 principal Components: (a) Institutional
Development and (b) System Management Capacity Improvement.
Qualifying applicant institutions, based on their capabilities, will be
selected either as Lead or Network institutions. Educational
institutions will be required to compete through specific proposals
for Institutional Development funds. All proposals related to System
Management Capacity Improvement (at the central and state
levels) would be funded in the investment mode.
1.5.1 Programme Component - I: Institutional Development
Institutional Development would be achieved through 3 sub-
components: (i) Promotion of academic excellence, (ii) Networking
of institutions for quality enhancement and resource sharing; and
(iii) Enhancing quality and reach of services community and
economy. These are briefly described below:
a)  Promotion of Academic Excellence
Excellence, being a multifaceted ideal, would involve aspects of
relevance, quality, efficiency and equity in differing mixes as suited
to different circumstances, and hence excellence is expected to take
many different forms. Institutions are likely to have differing visions
of excellence and hence differing resource requirements for the
attainment of their decided goals. Institutions would be free to focus
their plan for excellence either at the whole institution or a
Department or even a programme. The selected institutions would
be financially supported and suitably empowered by their respective
sponsoring governments to implement their proposed plans for
achieving excellence including implementation of various reforms.
Plans for excellence are expected to cover, among others, such
activities as: (i) improvements in institutional governance, and
management and administrative practices; (ii) improvements in
teaching, training and learning facilities; and curricular practices;
(iii) faculty  and  staff development; (iv)  enhancement in
postgraduate education and research; and (v) intensive interaction
with industry.
b) Networking of Institutions for Quality Enhancement and Resource
Sharing
Though excellence is sought for the entire engineering education
sub-sector, but in view of the large number of institutions and the
constraints on human, physical and financial resources, the chosen
My Doc/RaJeev/Tribal Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/2002/5 36 PM   7



strategy is to develop a critical mass of Lead Institutions and to
diffuse benefits of their excellence throughout the system by
developing synergistic networks between them and neighboring
institutions.
Two types of networking are proposed under the Programme. The
first type of networking will be a formal network (bi-directional
resource and expertise sharing) between Lead and Network
educational institutions. The second type of networking (non-formal
network) will be between Programme institutions and R&D
organizations, specialized laboratories, leading engineering and
other educational institutions in India and abroad, industry and
community. Both types of networks will be governed by specific
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU).
The formal network is expected to include, among others, sharing of
curricular improvements and innovations; credit transfer; staff
development and exchange of faculty; sharing of teaching and
training resources; sharing of expertise; and joint researches,
Programmes and consultancy assignments.
c) Enhancing Quality and Reach of Services to Community and
Economy
All the faculty and students would participate in institutional
programmes for rendering services to the local community and to
both the formal and informal segments of the economy (industry,
services and agriculture). All such programmes would be demand
based and would be identified through interaction with the
community and economy. Benefits are expected to accrue not only
to the community and the economy (through improved productivity,
earnings and quality of life) but also to students and faculty through
implementation of studies, Programmes, and researches, and to
institutions through mobilization of resources. Services to be
rendered will depend upon the location of an institution and its
technical capabilities. vary across different classes of institutions.
1.5.2 Programme Component - II: System Management
Capacity Improvement
Implementation of reforms of the depth and breadth envisioned in
the  Programme   requires:  (a)  development of a  modern
management style in the various agencies responsible for guiding
and supporting the reforms, and (b) establishment of structures and
facilities for guiding and monitoring implementation of the
Programme at the central and state levels. This Component would,
among others, support: (i) training of policy planners, managers
and administrators from governments, government bodies and
My Doc1Rajeev/Tribal Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/2002/5 36 PM   8



institutions, (ii) carrying out of research studies in engineering
education, (iii) establishment of an educational management
information system, (iv) strengthening of resource Institutions, and
(v) establishment of Programme management structures at the
central and state levels.
SECTION -II THE SCHEDULE CASTE AND SCHEDULE TRIBES
(SC/STs)
2.0 BACKGROUND
From the time of Independence, the Government has initiated
special policies and plans to provide SCs/STs access to education.
The Constitution provided for social, economic and political equality.
In order to achieve this objective, it was realized that the persons
belonging to the SC/ST would require special protection and
concessions. It was accepted that if they had to meaningfully enjoy
the rights and privileges guaranteed by the Constitution to all its
citizens, they had to be provided a special status within the legal
framework of the country. Special provisions were, therefore,
incorporated in the Constitution to encourage and promote their
economic, educational and social development. The strategy
therefore, rested on the twin planks of deference against
discrimination and exploitation of the SCs and affirmative action for
their development. The goal of affirmative action is to ensure that
information, opportunities and access in the spheres of education
and employment be made available to under-represented groups on
the same basis as they are to others.
The SC/STs constitute a sizeable percentage of our population.
According to the 1991 Census, 16.73% of our population are SCs
and 8.08%   are STs. SCs are primarily concentrated in Uttar
Pradesh, West Bengal, Bihar, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh.
Together, these States account for more than 50%  of the SC
population of the country. Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal together
have approximately 20%  of the population belonging to these
communities. The ST population is mainly concentrated in North
eastern regions, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh,
Gujarat etc.
The Directive Principles of the State Policy of the Constitution cast a
special duty on the State to "promote with special care the
educational and economic interests of the weaker sections of the
people," and enjoins the State to "protect them from social injustice
and all forms of exploitation."
My DoVcRaleev/Tribal Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/2002/5 36 PM   9



The National Policy on Education (NPE), 1986, and Programme of
Action (POA) 1992, envisage improvement and expansion of
education in all sectors, elimination of disparities in access and
stresses on improvement in the quality and relevance of education
at all levels, from primary to higher education, along with technical
and professional education. It also emphasis that education must
play a positive and interventionist role in correcting social and
regional imblances, empowering women and in securing a rightful
place for linguistic groups and minorities.
2.1   PROVISIONS FOR EDUCATION OF SCs IN NPE 1986
The central focus in the SCs' educational development is their
equalization with the non-SC population at all stages and levels of
education, in all areas and in all the four dimensions - rural male,
rural female, urban male and urban female.
The measures contemplated for this purpose include
i)   Incentives to indigent families to send their children to
school regularly till they reach the age of 14;
ii)  Pre-matric Scholarship scheme for children of families
engaged in occupations such as scavenging flaying and
tanning to be made applicable from Class I onwards. All
children of such families, regardless of incomes, will be
covered by this scheme and time-bound programmes
targeted on them will be undertaken;
iii)  Constant micro-planning and verification to ensure that the
enrolment, retention and successful completion of courses
by SC students do not fall at any stage, and provision of
remedial courses to improve their prospects for further
education and employment.
iv)  Recruitment of teachers from SCs;
v)   Provision of facilities for SC students in students' hostel at
district headquarters, according to a phased programme;
vi)  Location of school buildings, Balwadis and Adult Education
Centres in such a way as to facilitate full participation of
the SCs;
vii) The utilization of NREP and RLEGP resources so as to make
substantial educational facilities available to the SCs; and
My DoclRajeev/Tribal Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/2002/5 36 PM  10



viii) Constant innovation in finding new methods to increase the
participation of the SCs in the educational process.
2.2 PROVISIONS FOR EDCUCATION OF STs IN NPE 1986
The following measures will be taken urgently to bring the STs on
par with others :-
i)   Priority will be accorded to opening primary schools ;in
tribal areas. The construction of school buildings will be
undertaken in these areas on a priority basis under the
normal funds for education, as well as under the NREP,
RLEGP Tribal Welfare schemes, etc.
ii)  The socio-cultural milieu of the STs has its distinctive
characteristics including, in many cases, their own spoken
languages. This underlines the need to develop the
curricula and devise instructional materials in tribal
languages at the initial stages, with arrangements for
switching over to the regional language.
iii)  Educated and promising ST youths will be encouraged and
trained to take up teaching in tribal areas.
iv)  Residential schools, including Ashram  Schools, will be
established on a large scale.
v)   Incentive schemes will be formulated for the STs, keeping
in view their special needs and life styles. Scholarships for
higher education will emphasize technical, professional and
para-professional courses, special remedial courses and
other programmes to remove psycho-social impediments
will be provided to improve their performance in various
courses.
vi)  Anganwadis, Non-formal and Adult Education Centers will
be opened on a priority basis in areas predominantly
inhabited by the STs.
vii) The curriculum at all stages of education will be designed
to create an awareness of the rich cultural identity of the
tribal people as also of their enormous creative talent.
2.3 SPECIAL MINISTRIES FOR SC/STs
The Ministry of Welfare was constituted in 1985 by integrating the
subjects of (i) Welfare of SCs, STs, Religious and Linguistic
My Doc/Rajeev/Tribat Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/2002/5 36 PM   I I



Minorities, Socially and Educationally Backward Classes; (ii) Welfare
of persons with disability and Programmes of Social Defence
relating to the victims of alcoholism, drug addiction, juvenile social
maladjustment, welfare of prisoners, children in need of care and
protection, welfare of the aged; (iii) matters relating to the
Administration of Wakf. As the thrust of majority of this Ministry's
programmes was to empower the weaker and socially and
economically deprived sections of the society, the Ministry was
renamed as of Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment in May
1989. The work relating to tribal development was taken over by a
separate Ministry of Tribal Affairs in October 1999.
The Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment continued to
implement various schemes aimed at achieving social justice for
and empowerment of the disadvantaged and marginalized sections
of society such as the SCs, minorities, backward classes, disabled,
aged,  drug  afflicted, juvenile  delinquents, street children,
abandoned and destitute children etc. and also the schemes related
to animal welfare.
While the welfare of the SCs continues to be looked after by the
Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, that of the STs was
shifted to a separate Ministry of tribal Affairs set up in 1999. A
national commission for SCs and STs is responsible for protecting
the interests of these two groups.
All the central Ministries and the State Governments are together
responsible for the promotion of the interest of the SC/STs. In the
areas that each Ministry operates, it is their responsibility to
formulate and implement special schemes for their upliftment.
SECTION - III BASELINE INFORMATION ABOUT SC/STs
This section discusses the reasons for the socio-economic
backwardness of SC/STs and their access to higher, especially
technical education
3.0 EDUCATIONAL AND SOCIAL BACKWARDNESS
The SCs have always been a part of village society but their
backwardness is due to the some social disabilities they suffered in
the caste system.  Problems faced by SC/STs in accessing higher
education are due to a) poverty b) lack of education at the school
level as indicated by high dropout rates and c) lack of information
about the plans and policies of the government meant for them.
My Doc/Rajeev/Tribal Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/2002/5 36 PM   12



The   proportion of enrolment of SC/ST children continues to be
much less than their population proportion except in the case of
primary education where the enrolment ratios are comparable to
the general enrolment. But this is possibly due to the higher
proportion of over-age children amongst these categories.
Table - I indicates that though the literacy rate among SC/STs is on
the increase over last 4 decades, however it is still lower as
compared to general average literacy rate. The participation of
SC/ST women is still lower.
Table - I: Literacy Rate by Category
(All      figs       in
percentages)
1961      1971     1981        1991
Literacy
General-All        24.0      29.5      43.7       52.2
SC-All             10.3      14.7      21.4       37.4
ST-All              8.5      11.4      16.4       29.6
General-Males      34.4      39.5      65.5       64.1
SC-Males           17.0      22.4      31.1       49.9
ST-Males           13.8      17.6      24.5       40.7
General-Females    13.0      18.7      29.9       39.3
SC-Females          3.3      6.4       10.9       23.8
ST-Females          3.2      4.9       8.1        18.2
Source. National Commission for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, Fourth Report Vol. 1, 1996-
97& 1997-98
Table - II indicates that the dropout rate among SC/ST students
continues to be very high at all levels of education. The dropout
rates for the year 1987-88 amongst SC, ST and general population
are given below:
Table - II Dropout Rates (1987-88)
Classes        SC              ST             General
I-V            51.60           65.21          46.97
I-VIII         68.81           80.01          62.29
I-X            81.98           87.62          75.30
Source: National Commission for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled
Tribes, Fourth Report Vol. I, 1996-97 & 1997-98
My Doc/Rajeev/Trlbal Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/2002/5.36 PM   13



Table - III indicates that participation of SC/STs in Engineering
Education is far lower than the average.
Table - III: Status of Enrollment in Indian Engineering
Education -1978-79 to 2001-02
1995- 1998- 1998- 2001-
1978-79   1988-89  96    99     99     02
(%)       (%)      (/)   (#)    (%)    (%)
Engineering
Education
General         93.8      92.8            253634 87.1  78.9
SC              5.3       5.9             30193  10.4  15.2
ST              1.0       1.3             7444  2.6    5.9
Males  in   Engg.
Education                 92.8                  92.2
General                   92.8            238012 88.7
SC                        5.9             24021  8.9
ST                        1.3             6381  2.4
Females in Engg
Education                 6.2                   7.8
General                   92.8            15622 68.3
SC                        6.3             6172  27.0
ST                        1.0             1063  4.7
All        Higher
Education
General         91.3               72.2
SC              7.1                23.3
ST              1.6                4.5
Sources: Data for the above years has been taken from the
following
1. For years 1978-79 & 1988-99, Table 4.5 & 4.6 from Accessing
Higher Education -The Dilemma of Schooling Women,
Minorities, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in
Contemporary India, Karuna Chanana (1993), Higher
Education Reform in India - Experience and Perspectives
2. For 1995-96, National Commission for Scheduled Castes and
Scheduled  Tribes, Fourth Report Vol I, 1996-97 & 1997-98
3. For 2001-02, Survey of representative set of Regional and
State-level Engineering Colleges; for  1998-99,  Selected
Educational Statistics, MHRD and Statistical Abstract India,
2000
My Doc/Rajeev/Tribal Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/2002/5 36 PM   14



SECTION - IV   INITIATIVES     TAKEN     BY    GOI     FOR
UPLIFTMENT OF SC/STs
The works of national leaders like Mahatama Gandhi and Ambedkar
has gone a long way in rehabilitating the SC/STs into mainstream
society. Since Independence the Government of India has adopted
several measures for the uplift of these two sections of the
population. In pursuance of this, GOI has initiated and implemented
a large number of schemes and has made large investment to
support these categories.
4.0 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PLAN OUTLAY FOR SC/STs
A number of Centrally Sponsored Schemes are being implemented
from the First Plan onwards for SCs/STs and other backward
sections. These are (i) Post-matric scholarships; (ii) Grant-in-aid to
voluntary organizations; (iii) Pre-mateic scholarships; (iv) Book
Banks; (v) Boy's and Girls Hostels; (vi) Coaching and allied
schemes etc. In addition to these, two schemes in the central
sector, viz, (i) special educational development programme for girls
belonging to SCs of very low literacy levels, and (ii) educational
complex in low literacy pockets for development of women's literacy
in tribal pockets for development of women's literacy in tribal areas.
These programme were in addition to the special thrust given to the
weaker sections in the general programme for educational
development like opening of schools, running of Non-Formal
Education (NFGE) centers and adult education centers, schemes of
Operation Blackboard, upgradation of merit of SC/ST students,
reservation in educational institutions, etc
In 1979-80, the Government introduced a Special Component Plan
(SCP) for SCs/STs to make funds available for their development.
Under this Central Scheme, Special Central Assistance (SCA) is
extended to supplement the efforts of the States/UT for ensuring
rapid socio-economic development of the SCs/STs.
Plan allocations since the 8th Plan for the Sc/STs have reached
parity with their share in the population. Government allocations for
the educational welfare of the Scs/STs and the special reservations
for SC/STs in educational institutions have helped them to increase
their presence in the college-going population. These have been
kept in proportion to their percentage in the population (15 percent
for SCs and 7.5 percent for the STs.   Given the preferential
treatment (a lower cut-off percentage of eligibility marks) the
representation of SC/ST students in professional education has been
consistently increasing. It may also be the case that the seats
allotted for SCs/STs in technical and professional courses may be
My Doc/Rajeev/Tribal Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/2002/5 36 PM  15



more than the number of students adequately prepared for such
education.
4.1 THE INITIATIVES BY MHRD
The Department of Elementary Education and Literacy along with
the Department of Higher and Secondary Education have taken a
large number of new initiatives. These include providing quality
elementary education, coverage of children with special needs,
vocationalization, education for women's equality and special focus
on the education of SCs/STs and minorities.
Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, which is a holistic and convergent scheme
has been launched in a mission mode to achieve the goal of
Universal Elementary Education.  The participation of SC/ST
parents/guardians in the affairs of the school will be especially
monitored to ensure ownership of the Abhiyan by all social groups,
especially the most disadvantaged.
Pursuant to the National Policy on Education, the following special
provisions for SC/STs have been incorporated in the existing
schemes of the Departments of Elementary Education & Literacy
and Secondary Education & Higher Education.   The schemes
initiated for Secondary and Higher Education are:
. Reservation of seats for SC/STs in Central Government
Institutions of higher education, including IITs, IIMs, Regional
Engineering Colleges, Central Universities, Kendriya Vidyalayas
an d Novadaya Vidyalayas, etc. In universities, colleges and
technical institutions, apart from  reservation,  there is also
relaxation in the minimum qualifying cut-off percentages for
admission. The UGC has established SC/ST Cells in 103
universities , including Central Universities to ensure proper
implementation of the reservation policy. A standing committee
has also been set up by the UGC yo review implementation of
the reservation policy;
. To improve academic skills and linguistic proficiency of students
in various subjects and raising their level of comprehension,
remedial and special coaching is provided for SC/ST students.
IITs have a scheme which SC/ST students who fail marginally in
the entrance examination are provided one year's preparatory
course;
. Out of 43,000 scholarships at the secondary stage for talented
children from rural areas 13,000 are reserved exclusively for
My DocrRajeev/Tribal Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/2002/5 36 PM   16



SC/ST students, while 70 scholarships are reserved exclusively
for SC/ST students under the National Talent Search Scheme;
* SC/ST candidates are provided relaxation up to 10 percent of
cut-off marks for the Junior Research Fellowship (3RF) test and
all the SC/ST candidates qualifying for the JRF are awarded
fellowships;
* Fifty Junior Fellowships are awarded every year in Science and
Humanities including Social Sciences to SC/ST candidates who
appear in National Eligibility Test (NET) and qualify the eligibility
test for lectureship;
* University Grants Commission provides a relaxation of, five
percent from 55 percent to 50 percent at the Master's level to
SC/ST candidates for appointment as lecturer. The Commission
has also reduced minimum percentage of marks required for
appearing in the NET examination to 50 percent at Master's level
fore SC/STs;
* The Central Institute of Indian Languages, Mysore has a scheme
of development of Indian    Languages, through   research,
developing manpower, production of materials in Modern Indian
Languages, including tribal languages. The Institute has worked
in more than 75 tribal and border languages;
* One hundred and forty six districts have been identified as low
female literacy districts to be given focused attention by the
Center as well as States/Union Territories for implementation of
programmes/schemes; and
* The allocation of Rs. 889.98 crore and Rs 436.54 crore has been
made under the Special Component Plan (SCP) and Tribal Sub-
Plan (TSP) for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes
respectively (against total outlay of Rs 5450 crores).  This
accounts for 16.33 percent and 8.01 percent of the total outlay.
* To remedy the non-fulfilment of the prescribed reservation quota
for SC / STs in teaching positions, the University Grant
Commission (UGC) has created a Central Pool Database of
eligible SC / ST candidates to recommend their candidature for
teaching positions in universities and colleges.  In order to
provide an adequate number of qualified SC / ST candidates for
recruitment as lecturers in universities and colleges, the
Commission has formulated a scheme of conducting coaching
classes to prepare them for the National Eligibility Test (NET).
My Doc/Rajeev/Tribal Plan Last(13 0502)/6/2512002/5 36 PM   17



4.2 ACCESS TO HIGHER AND ENGINEERING EDUCATION
As a result of the several measures of the Government of India,
literacy among the SC/STs has increased steadily since 1961, and
almost doubled since 1981. In 1991, literacy levels were 37.4% for
the SCs and 29.6% for the STs. Yet, the gap remains. The non
SC/STs (general category) show a higher literacy level (52.2 %) in
1991 about 15 percentage point higher than the SCs and almost 23
percentage points higher than the STs (Table - I).
4.3   RESERVATION POLICY
Reservations at the State level include a further 25% reservation for
the OBC (Other Backward Classes) category. The percentage of
reserved seats at the State-level thus totals up to nearly 50%
(including reservation for handicapped students and some other
categories such as sports and National Cadet Corps students).
There is a Constitutional provision of 'quotas' or seats and jobs in
educational institutions for both groups. As a result of this
Constitutional provision, 7.5%  of the seats in engineering and
technical institutions are reserved for the STs and 15% of the seats
are reserved for SCs. Seats are reserved in all Central and State
Institutions. Seats are also allotted in private engineering colleges
in the 'free seats' category (in private colleges 50% of the seats are
'free' (subsidized) while 50% are 'paid' (non-subsidized). 25% of
the seats in several Central institutions and all State level
institutions are reserved for the OBC (Other Backward Classes)
category.
4.4 CENTRAL SCHEMES FOR SC/STs
The Government has several special Central schemes for the
educational welfare of SC/ST boys and girls. Some of these are:
1. Special  Central  Schemes  aiming  at  the  educational
development of Scheduled Caste and Tribe girls belonging to
low literacy districts.
2. National Overseas Scholarship Scheme for pursuing higher
education abroad in specified fields of Masters level courses,
Ph.D. and Post Doctoral programmes in Engineering,
Technology and Science.
3. Centrally Sponsored Scheme of Hostels for SC/ST boys and
girls.
4. Book Bank for SC/ST students.
5. Central Sector Scheme of upgradation of merit of SC/ST
students. Under this scheme 100%   Central Assistance is
My Doc/RaJeev/Tribal Plan Last(03 0502)/6/25/2002/5 36 PM   1 8



released to States/UTs for arranging remedial and special
coaching for students studying in classes IX to XII. Special
coaching is provided to prepare students for competitive
examinations  for entry into  professional courses  like
engineering and medicine.
6. Centrally Sponsored Coaching and Allied Scheme for SC/ST
students: Free coaching through Pre-Examination Training
Centers to enable them to compete successfully in competitive
examinations. NGOs too are being been funded under this
scheme. (For the year 2001-2, upto December 2001, 52
organizations had been assisted with an amount of Rs. 1.80
crores benefiting 5080 students (Source: Ministry of Social
Justice and Empowerment, 2000-1).
4.5  SPECIAL EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME FOR
GIRLS BELONGING TO SCs IN VERY LOW LITERACY
LEVEL DISTRICTS
Under this scheme, free residential schools are established for SC
girls who are first generation learners and who belonging to families
below the poverty line in districts with SC female literacy below 20/a
(1981 Census). These districts are in the States of Bihar, Madhya
Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. The scheme is implemented
through the respective Zilla Parishards/Panchayats, to whom grant-
in-aid is provided on per student basis.
4.6 EDUCATIONAL SCHEMES FOR SC/STs IN THE FIVE
YEAR PLANS
As described above, the SC/STs have access to several Central and
Centrally Sponsored Schemes as well as State Sector schemes for
their educational uplift. From the First Five Year Plan itself, various
enabling mechanisms such as opening of schools in Tribal areas,
setting up of residential schools, hostels, scholarships, grants of
books and provision of vocational training were instituted for the
SC/STs. Post and pre-matriculation scholarships, assistance in
coaching for various competitive examinations (since the 5th Plan),
vocational training, supply of text books, stationery, equipment,
uniforms, sports material, residential schools, mid-day meals, loans
for higher education etc. are other provisions made by the
government.
4.7   SPECIAL   CENTRAL    ASSISTANCE      TO     SPECIAL
COMPONENT PLAN FOR SC
The Special Components Plan (SCP) for SC is designed to channelise
the flow of outlays and benefits from the general sectors in the
My Doc/Rajeev/Tribal Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/2002/5 36 PM   19



Plans of States/UTs and Central Ministries for the development of
SC. The allocations are to be not less than the proportion of the SC
population. It is an umbrella programme under which all schemes
implemented by State and Central Governments are dovetailed for
addressing different needs of the SC. The SCA may now be utilized
for infrastructure development in villages, with 50% or more of SC
population, where infrastructure facilities are lacking.
4.8 POST MATRIC SCHOLARSHIP FOR SCs & OBCs, BOOK
BANK & OVERSEAS SCHOLARSHIPS
The objective of the Post-matric Scholarship scheme is provide
financial assistance to the students belonging to the SC and other
backward classes to pursue post matriculation courses in recognized
institutions within India. The scheme provides for 100% central
assistance  to the  State  Governments  and  Union  Territory
Administrations implementing the scheme, over and above their
respective committed liability. The committed liability of the North
Eastern States has, however, been dispensed with from the
commencement of the Ninth Five-Year Plan period. The Ministry also
gives Financial assistance for setting up of book banks in institutions
running courses in Medicine, Engineering, Agriculture, Veterinary,
Law, Chartered Accountancy, MBA and Bio-Sciences to help the
students who cannot afford to buy these books. The scheme of
National Overseas Scholarships for SC students provides financial
assistance to meritorious selected students belonging to SCs for
pursuing higher studies abroad in specified fields of Masters level
courses, Ph.D. and   Post-doctoral  research  programmes  in
Engineering, Science and Technology.
4.9 HOSTELS FOR BOYS AND GIRLS BELONGING TO SCs
AND OBCs
Under this scheme, central assistance is provided to the State
Governments on 50:50 basis, 100% to UT Administrations and 90%
to centrally controlled universities and 45% to other universities for
construction of hostel buildings for SC and OBC boys and girls
studying in middle schools, higher secondary schools, colleges and
universities.
4.10 COACHING SCHEMES FOR SCs, OBCs AND MINORITIES
The schemes provide for central assistance on a 50:50 basis
providing coaching to students belonging to SCs, OBCs and the
minorities through Pre-Examination Coaching centers to enable
them to compete in various entrance examinations and also to
improve their representation in services under Central and State
My Doc/Rajeev/Tribal Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/2002/5 36 PM   20



Governments, Public Sector Undertakings, etc. The coaching is also
provided through private institutions of repute for which assistance
is provided on 1000/a basis. The special coaching is provided with
a view to prepare students for competitive examinations, for entry
into professional courses like engineering, medicine, etc.
4.11 FINANCIAL AND OTHER CONCESSIONS TO RESERVED
CATEGORY STUDENTS
Once admitted to engineering or technical institutions, SC/ST
students receive considerable financial aid from the Central
Government: free tuition, free food and hostel or a stipend of Rs.
300/- pm for needy students (whose parental income is below Rs.
one lakh). The amount for day-scholars is half of this. Most students
opt for the free messing which is of greater value. This stipend is
also made available to other non-reserved category poor students
under the merit-cum-means scheme. In the Indian Institutes of
Technology, the Central Government supports an entire year of
preparatory learning for SC/ST students before they are absorbed
into the regular engineering stream.
Students are given a concession at the time of admission - they
enter with a lower cut-off of marks in the competitive entrance
examinations held for admission to professional courses. During the
course of study some other concessions may be given. For example,
while General Category students in the IITs need to have completed
25 credits at the end of the first and 55 at the end of the second
year, Reserved Category students need to complete only 22 at the
end of the first and 52 at the end of the second year (they share
this concession with Foreign Students). However, such concessions
may vary between institutions.
4.12 OTHER ENABLING MECHANISMS AFFECTING ENTRY TO
PROFESSIONAL COURSES (PETCs)
Since the 5th Plan period the government has set up PETCs for
imparting coaching for various competitive examinations. Under this
scheme, free coaching facilities are provided to SC/ST candidates
belonging to families whose annual income is below Rs.44,500/-.
In these Centers, coaching is provided to candidates for Civil
Services, Medical and Engineering Entrance Examinations and other
Service Examinations including State Services. Centers run by the
Union Territories Administration and by Universities are eligible for
100%/o assistance. According to the SC/ST Commission's report, in
1998-99, PETCs were being run in 22 States/UTs, 18 Universities
and 4 private coaching institutions were receiving assistance.
My Dor/Rajeev/TrIbal Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/2002/5 36 PM   21



During 1995-96 Central Assistance of Rs. 0.94 crores was released
to the State Governments/Universities and Private Coaching
Institutions. During 1996-97 Rs. 1.07 crores has been released out
of a total provision of Rs.3.00 crores.
SECTION - V TRIBAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN
5.0 NEED FOR A TRIBAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN
Due to existing national policy and provisions for reservation of
seats and teaching positions in educational institutions, the
beneficiaries of various programme include 8.08% STs and 16.73%
SCs of the total population. The proposed Technical Education
Quality Improvement Programme of GOI (TEQIP) fully endorses the
policy and existing programmes of GOI and the States and is
committed to support the exiting schemes for SC/STs. Therefore;
various activities envisaged under the Programme will further boost
the cause of SC/ST students and protect the interests of the
indigenous persons especially that of the SC/STs. In addition:
(a) the Programme does not envisage creation of new institutions
therefore, the Programme is unlikely to adversely affect land right
of STs.
(b) only about 100 well performing institutions are planned to be
included in the Phase - I of the Programme to make them world-
class institutions therefore, the Programme is unlikely to have any
negative impact on SC/ST segments of the country.
Rather, the proposed TEQIP is designed to boost the involvement of
SC/ST community in much greater proportions. Through this
Programme, benefit of Technical Education would be extended to a
larger number of these groups. The quality of Education for SC/STs
as for other general category would be enhanced to meet the
international standards. However, care would also be taken to
popularize technical education among SC/ST community.  All
necessary steps would be taken to ensure that stipulated
representation of SC / ST students faculty and staff is met.
5.1 IMPACT OF THE PROGRAMME ON SC/STs
The Programme will enable the SC/ST students to benefit from the
improvements in technical institutions. More specifically, the
Programme   through  its  activities  will strengthen  ongoing
government provisions and benefits to these students.
My Doc/Rajeev/Tribal Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/200215 36 PM   22



Land Tenure: Since the Programme will not be establishing any
new institutions, the issue of acquisition of tribal land or the
displacement of tribal people does not arise and hence is not
applicable in this Programme.
SECTION - VI LEGAL FRAMEWORK
6.0 CONSTITUTIONAL PROVISIONS, LAWS, REGULATIONS
AND ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS AFFECTING SCs AND
STs
Article 15(4): Nothing in this article or in clause (2) of Article 29
shall prevent the State from making any special provision for the
advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of
citizens or for the scheduled castes and the scheduled tribes.
Article 46: The state shall promote with special care the
educational and economic interests of the weaker sections of the
people, and, in particular, of the scheduled castes and the
scheduled tribes, and shall protect them from social injustice and all
forms of exploitation.
Article 355: The Claims of the members of the Scheduled Castes
and Scheduled Tribes shall be taken into consideration, consistently
with the maintenance of efficiency of administration, in making
appointments to services and posts connected with the affairs of the
Union or of a State.
6.1 CONSTITUTIONAL PROVISIONS FOR THE STs
Article 244: enables the State to make special arrangements for
the development of STs.
Article 275-I: enables the state (the central government
particularly) to set aside financial provisions to be used for tribal
development.
Schedule V: empowers the governor of a state to suspend any act
of parliament or state legislature if he thinks it is not in the interest
of the STs.
Schedule VI: enables an autonomous district level body to be
formed where there is a large percentage of tribal groups.
The SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act, 1989 Violations against
SCs/STs are punishable under this act.
My Doc/Rajeev/TribaI Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/2002/5,36 PM   23



National Commission for SC/STs: The commission is responsible
for looking after their welfare.
6.2 GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL MECHANISMS
Discrimination against SC/ST candidates is addressed through the
judicial system and by the National Commission for SC/STs.
SECTION - VII REMEDIAL ACTIONS
7.0 RESERVATION POLICY
The reservation policy for SC/ST will be strictly adhered to as per
the provisions made by Central and State Governments. Each State
selected under the Programme will provide a written commitment
that each institution selected under the Programme will adhere to
the reservation policy as well as implement all schemes for the
benefit of SC/STs. Each institution selected under the Programme
will also give an undertaking that the Central and State Policies for
SC/CTs will be implemented during the Programme period and a
special mechanism for monitoring their implementation will be
devised. All efforts will be made by the participating institutions to
ensure that the quality of students from SC/STs improves.
7.1 REMEDIAL TEACHING IN STATE LEVEL INSTITUTIONS
Remedial teaching in the form of a Preparatory Courses may be
offered by participating institutions. Special efforts may be made to
improve basic knowledge of English, Physics, Chemistry and
Mathematics. Supplementary aids in the form of video, and review
lectures could also be made available.
7.2 COUNSELING AND ADVISORY SERVICES
The existing Cell for SC/STs in the institutions will have the
responsibility to perform the role of counselors to advise the SC/ST
students  about various aspects related  to  academics  and
adjustments in the institutions which is a changed atmosphere for
them. The SC/ST Cells in the institutions will be responsible for
distribution of financial aid in the form of scholarships and free ships
to the students.
A special mechanism will be created by each institution under the
Programme to ensure that delays in reaching financial aid to SC/ST
students does not occur and they receive proper guidance and
counseling in the matters of academics and their social integration
in the institutions.
My Doc/Rajeev/Trtbal Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/2002/5 36 PM   24



7.3 MONITORING AND EVALUATION BENCHMARKS
a) As per the existing practice by all States and the institutions,
statutory provisions related to SC/STs will continue to be
followed under the Programme and monitored at their levels.
b) As is being done by the States currently, the States may
sponsor Research and Evaluation Studies in the areas of
Social Policy, Social Development and Social Welfare.  The
finding of such studies would be used for evolving further
intervention at the policy and implementation level.
c) The SC/ST Cells in the Programme institutions may regularly
report its activities to the BOG of the institution and an Annual
Report of their activities may also be submitted to the
Central/State Governments.
d) The SPFUs and NPIU may also compile an Annual Report
indicating progress of various schemes for SC/ST under the
Programme.
Evaluation Questions
1. Intake: Is the SC/ST quota being filled?
2. Is the number of dropouts decreasing?
3. Number of students passing the course (to assess quality
improvement of students being taken in).
4. Number of years taken to complete.
5. Placement of students. Follow up on career track of SC/ST
graduates to ascertain if students are being able to market
themselves without further use of reservations (the envisaged
EMIS could make this a part of Project tracer studies).
6. Whether advisory services are achieving the goal of
integrating students into the mainstream.
My Doc/Rajeev/Tribal Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/2002/5 36 PM   25



Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
Monitoring             Indicators              Data to be maintained by
SC/ST intake           Intake data for each year  Institution
disaggregated by
category and gender
Intake of SC/ST faculty
Performance             Final Grades on        Institution
Completion of Program
Completion              No. of years taken to  Institution
complete
Dropouts in each year
Employment              Placement Record of    Training and Placement
SC/STs - at end of      Cell of Institution
degree/diploma program.
Public Sector/Private
Sector/Not Placed
(Part of Tracer studies
envisaged by the Project)
Remedial Teaching      Availability of extra   SC/ST Cell to report
tutoring.               Cross-check by NPIU,
Seff-learning           Project Teams
reinforcement packages.
Student evaluation of   Part of student evaluation
program.               of teaching
Social Integration      Student Orientation    Institution to organize
Counseling provision   counseling.
Functioning of SC/ST cell Monitoring by NPIU,
Project Authorities
Financial Aid           No. of students receiving  Institution
financial aid
My Doc/Rajeev/Tribal Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/2002/5 36 PM    26



SECTION - VIII POLICIES/SCHEMES/PROGRAMME TASKS RELATED TO SC/ST AND ITS
IMPLEMENTATION UNDER THE PROGRAMME
S.     POLICY/ SCHEME/      IMPLEMENTATION        IMPLEMENTATION          MONITORING            FUNDING
NO.    PROGRAMME TASK             PLAN                SCHEDULE           ARRANGEMENT         ARRANGEMENT
1.    Reservation  of seats The current policy on The policy for the SC/STs  At the national level No funding required
for SC/ST in Technical reservation  of seats is already in place and is  NPIU  will monitor
Education  institutions for  SC/STs   (as being implemented by the  the implementation.
under  Central  and  practiced  by   the Central and State
State Governments    Central  and   State Governments. Under the  At the State level
Governments) for the Programme a             SIFU  will monitor
students    entering commitment is being     the implementation.
Technical Education in taken from the selected
the  institutions fully States as part of the  At the Institutional
funded           by selection criteria to   level LIPMU/NIPMU
Government,    aided implement the policy right will  monitor  the
and    private  self- from the commencement  implementation.
financing  institutions of the Programme
will be supported by
the Programme both at From the institutions also
State  and   Central an undertaking will be
levels.  As a part of taken to implement the
criteria for selection of policy of reservation right
the institutions and the from  the  date  of
States commitment is commencement of the
being taken from the Programme.
States and institutions
that    under    the From  the  Private self-
Programme,       the financing institutions that
reservation of seats for get selected under the
students as per the Programme    the  same
policy framework will undertaking will be taken.
be continued.
My Doc/RajeevfTnbal Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/2002/5 36 PM       27



S.   POLICY/     SCHEME/ IMPLEMENTATION             IMPLEMENTATION      MONITORING           FUNDING
NO. PROGRAMME TASK          PLAN                    SCHEDULE            ARRANGEMENT          ARRANGEMENT
2.   Implementatfon     of The schemes relevant to These schemes will Special cell for SC/ST  All      Programme
Programmes        and Technical Education such  be implemented as a (SC/ST Cell) will be institutions will project
Policies for the benefit as:                   part    of    the created as part of the the funds for these
of SC/ST community                             Programme and all Programme    in each   schemes under their
a)  Special coaching of institutions   will Programme institution  individual  Project
SC/ST students for indicate    relevant which will have the  Proposal
entrance test       mechanisms     for responsibility    to
b)  Orientation  to the implementation  of monitor    all   the
institutions and  its these  schemes  in schemes and ensure
various programmes their        Project that the benefit of the
and       facilities, Reports.          schemes reaches each
entitlement of SC/ST                    SC/ST student
students
c)  Guidance       and
counseling
d)  Hostel facilities
e)  Remedial teaching
f)  Self-learning
packages
g)  Book Bank
h)  Attending        to
grievances
______________________________  i)  O thers       _
My Doc/Ra]eev/Tnbal Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/2002/5 36 PM        28



S.   POLICY/ SCHEME/ IMPLEMENTATION PLAN           IMPLEMENTATION       MONITORING           FUNDING
NO. PROGRAMME TASK                                 SCHEDULE             ARRANGEMENT         ARRANGEMENT
3.   Improve   academic The Programme institutions These  aids will be SC/ST     Cell   will All      Programme
skills and linguistic selected will use the facilities made available to the monitor the progress institutions will project
proficiency of SC/ST  being upgraded under the students  by   the of the benefit       the  funds for this
students in various Programme   for  learning institution  selected                    benefit  under  their
subjects and raising resources development. The under the Programme                    individual    Project
their  level    of packages (software based) within 6 months of                        Proposal
comprehension      will be developed or procured starting  of  the
remedial and special by the institutions.  These Programme
coaching is provided  learning packages will cater
to the linguistic needs of the
_____                    SC/ST students.
4.   Special  drive  for The programmes institution To  be  implemented  SC/ST   Cell   will All      Programme
women       SC/ST will    initiated   special immediately      by monitor the progress institutions will project
students.          educational   development institutions    upon of the benefit       the  funds for this
programmes for girls belong selection  under the                    benefit  under  their
to SC/ST. Facilities such as Programme                              individual   Project
hostels  local  commuting                                           Proposal
facilities,  special coaching
and remedial courses will be
offered   by   programme
institutions.      Special
promotional activities will be
initiated to encourage women
from   these  sections  to
participate  in  engineering
education.
My Doc/Rajeev/Tribal Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/2002/5 36 PM      29



S.   POLICY/ SCHEME/ IMPLEMENTATION PLAN          IMPLEMENTATION       MONITORING           FUNDING
NO. PROGRAMME TASK                                SCHEDULE             ARRANGEMENT         ARRANGEMENT
5.   Setting of PETCs for Selected  lead  institutions To  be  implemented  SC/ST  Cell  will All    Programme
SC/ST students     may      undertake    the immediately      by monitor the progress institutions will project
responsibility of setting of institutions  upon of the benefit     the  funds  for this
PETCs under the Programme selection  under the                     benefit  under their
and extend the benefit to all Programme                             individual   Project
network     and     other                                           Proposal
institutions.  The PETCs in
lead institution will be limited
to offer coaching for entering
Engineering      Education
Programmes    by   SC/ST
students.
6.   Promoting          Each Programme institution To  be  implemented SC/ST    Cell   will All      Programme
employment      of through its placement cell immediately     by monitor the progress institutions will project
SC/ST students     offer  special  services  to institutions  upon of the benefit     the  funds  for this
promote   employment   of selection  under the                     benefit  under their
SC/ST students. The TPO in Programme                                individual   Project
the   placement  cell  in                                           Proposal
collaboration with the Head
of SC/ST cell will make
special efforts to  attract
private industries to employ
SC/ST   students  through
campus interview.  If any
specialized pre-employment
training is needed the same
will be carried out by the
placement cell.
My Doc/RaJeev/Tnbal Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/2002I5 36 PM      30



S.   POLICY/ SCHEME/ IMPLEMENTATION PLAN            IMPLEMENTATION       MONITORING           FUNDING
NO. PROGRAMME TASK                                 SCHEDULE             ARRANGEMENT          ARRANGEMENT
7.   Decreasing  dropout The  Programme  institution To  be  implemented  SC/ST   Cell   will All      Programme
rate and increasing will make all efforts to retain immediately  by monitor the progress institutions will project
retention of SC/ST  the  SC/ST  students from  institutions  upon of the benefit        the  funds  for this
students        in dropping out of any course. selection  under the                     benefit  under  their
Engineering        The  institutions  may  pay Programme                                individual    Project
institutions       individual attention to SC/ST                                        Proposal
students through:
a)  Guidance and counseling
b)  Hostel facilities
c)  Remedial teaching
d)  Self-learning packages
e)  Book Bank
f)  Attending to grievances
g)  Flexible learning  and
evaluation  system  to
enable the student to
learn at his/her own
pace
h)  Others
My Doc/Ra]eev/Tnbal Plan Last(13 0502)/6/25/2002/5 36 PM       31



