Report No. 23280
Report No: I072123 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 11/29/2001
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: INDIA Project ID: P072123
Project: Engineering and Technical Education Quality Improvement Program -
I       Task Team Leader: Shashi K. Shrivastava
Appraisal Date: February 28, 2002        IBRD Amount ($m):
Board Date: July 2, 2002         IDA Amount ($m): 235.00
Managing Unit: SASHD     Sector: ET - Tertiary Education; EV -
Vocational/Technical Education & Training
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
To support production of high quality technical professionals through
reforms in the engineering education system for fostering and propagating
excellence by (a) developing competitively selected institutions as lead
centers, (b) synergistic networking of neighboring institutions, (c)
promoting active linkages with industry and community, and (d) enhancing
system management capacity.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The Program is proposed to be implemented as a centrally coordinated,
multi-state, long-term program of 10-12 years in 2-3 overlapping stages,
each of 5 years duration. Initially, Bank assistance would be provided
only for the First Stage of 5 years.
The project development objective would be achieved through two components
with different modes of funding.
Component 1: Institutional Development through Competitive Funding
Well-performing engineering institutions - both public and private- would
be selected through an open competition for assistance to attain higher
standards of quality of education and to establish close linkages with
industry, community and other institutions. The program would support the
following three activities:
i) Promotion of Academic Excellence in Institutions : Support about 30 to
40 well-performing and competitively selected institutions to achieve
their self- delineated vision of excellence and to serve as lead
institutions for 3-5 networked partners each.
ii) Networking of Institutions for Quality Enhancement and Resource
Sharing: Establish and support formal networks   between lead institutions
and their neighboring academic institutions for sharing of teaching,
learning, physical and human resources; faculty and staff competence
enhancement; improvement of academic processes; and joint publications,
researches and consultancies.
iii) Enhancing Quality and Reach of Services to Community and Industry:
Encourage and facilitate lead and network institutions to provide high
quality technical and advisory services to local communities and industry.



Component 2:   System Management Capacity Improvement
This component would support system-wide improvements and reforms
through:
Establishment of program planning and management structures and
strengthening of existing planning/regulating structures at the GOI and
state levels;
Strengthening of the National Board of Accreditation and other quality
assurance mechanisms;
Establishment of an Educational MIS to ensure on-line availability of
information (including labor market data and forecasts of emerging
technological trends) for planning and decision making; and
Research and training in engineering education planning and management.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Selected (existing) engineering colleges and polytechnics in participating
states; mostly located in urban areas.
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: No environmental issues are expected to arise as a result of
program implementation. The program would not support any acquisition of
land, construction of any new institution, or any major physical
expansion. Only some minor construction on existing institutional sites
and/or rehabilitation of existing buildings would be supported.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)       Yes
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Due to existing national provisions for reservation of seats in
educational (including engineering) institutions, the beneficiaries of the
program would include Scheduled Tribe (ST) students and OD 4.20 is
considered applicable. The project would provide positive benefits to ST
students, and no negative impacts are expected either on them or on other
-2 -



tribal communities.
No other safeguard policies are triggered. However, OP 4.01 has been
applied by screening and categorizing the project. As no adverse
environmental impact are anticipated, an Environment Assessment (EA) does
not have to be prepared.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
None
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
Long term positive impacts are expected as a consequence of improved
education available to ST students at the centers of excellence and
networked institutions.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
Not required
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Although the project is unlikely to have any direct negative impacts on
scheduled tribes, there may still be characteristics in ethnic identity
that prevent them from gaining the same benefits as others. A brief plan
focussing on issues related to access and successful completion of
technical education by Scheduled Tribe students will be prepared. This
will be discussed, and relevant criteria and processes for its
implementation worked out during program preparation.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The key stakeholders are faculty, students, the Central and state
governments, private sector funders, employers, industries that engage the
consultancy services of institutions, and the local communities that are
expected to benefit from the informal and outreach programs. GOI, the
state governments and the Bank team will hold consultations with
stakeholders during the course of Program preparation. In the process of
preparing their proposals for institutional development, the competing
institutions will also hold consultations with stakeholders.
In addition, the institutions and states would be required to hold
consultations with Schedule Tribe students to ensure that they benefit
equally from quality and efficiency improvements in program offerings, and
that their access to and completion of their chosen course of studies are
not adversely affected.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
-3 -



safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      1/25/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure 2/15/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop   2/15/2002
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Shashi K. Shrivastava   October 20, 2001
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Meera Chatterjee         October 22, 2001
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         L. Panneer Selvam        October 29, 2001
Sector Manager/Director:         Emmanuel Y. Jimenez      October 30, 2001
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 4 -



