Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24239
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON
A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 189.0 MILLION (US$250 million equivalent)
TO
INDIA
FOR A
TECHNICAL/ENGINEERING EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
September 23, 2002
Human Development Sector
South Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 1, 2002)
Currency Unit = Indian Rupees (Rs.)
Rs. 100.00 = US$2.048
US$1.00 = Rs. 48.84
FISCAL YEAR
April I -- March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AICTE             All India Council for Technical Education
ASCI              Administrative Staff College of India
BOG               Board of Govemor
BTE               Bureau of Technical Education
CAA&A             Comptroller of Aid Accounts and Audit
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
AIEEE             All India Engineering Entrance Examination
CII               Confederation of Indian Industry
CPA               Central Project Advisor'
DEA               Department of Economic Affairs
DGS&D             Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals
DSHE              Department of Secondary and Higher Education
EA                Environmental Assessment
EMIS              Educational Management Information System
FICCI             Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry
FMR               Financial Management Report
FMS               Financial Management Specialist
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
GOI               Govemment of India
IAMR.             Institute of Applied Manpower Research
IBRD              Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
IDA               Intemational Development Association
IIM               Indian Institute of Management
IISc              Indian Institute of Science
IIT               Indian Institute of Technology
ILO               Intemational Labor Organization
IPMU              Institutional Project Management Unit
IRR               Internal Rate of Retum
IT                Information Technology
KPI               Key Performace Indicator
MHRD               Ministry of Human Resource Development
MIS               Management Information System
MOU                Memorandum of Understanding
NBA                National Board of Accreditation
NCB                National Competitive Bidding
NGO                Non-Govemmental Organization



NIFM             National Institute for Financial Management
NIT              National Institute of Technology
NPD              National Project Director
NPE              National Policy on Education
NPIU              National Project Implementation Unit
NSC              National Steering Committee
NTMIS            National Technical Manpower Information System
OBC               Other Backward Classes
OECD             Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OED               Operations Evaluation Department
PIP               Project Implementation Plan
PLA               Personal Ledger Account
PWD               Public Works Department
R&D               Research and Development
REC               Regional Engineering College
S&T               Science and Technology
SC                Scheduled Caste
SDC               Swiss Agency for Development Cooperation
SDR               Special Drawing Rights
SOE               Statement of Expenditure
SPA               State Project Advisor
SPFU              State Project Facilitation Unit
ST                Scheduled Tribe
TDP               Tribal Development Plan
TOR               Terms of Reference
TTTI              Technical Teachers' Training Institute
UT                Union Territory
Vice President:  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:  Michael Carter
Sector Director:  Charles C. Griffin
Sector Manager:   Michelle Riboud
Task Team Leader:   Shashi Kant Shrivastava






INDIA
TECHNICAL/ENGINEERING EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Govemrnment strategy                                        3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      12
3. Benefits and target population                                                    13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      14
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                          15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         17
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in the project design                                 18
4. Indications of borrower conunitment and ownership                                  20
5. Value added ofBank support in this project                                        21
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          21
2. Financial                                                                          24
3. Technical                                                                          24
4. Institutional                                                                      26
5. Environmental                                                                      28
6. Social                                                                             28
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 30



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    31
2. Critical risks                                                                    31
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    33
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           33
2. Other                                                                             33
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         35
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        35
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         36
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   39
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        54
Annex 4: Economic Analysis                                                              56
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              68
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      69
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    84
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  85
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 87
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           91
MAP(S)
none



INDIA
Technical/Engineering Education Quality Improvement Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SASHD
Date: September 23, 2002                         Team Leader: Shashi K. Shrivastava
Sector Manager: Michelle Riboud                  Sector(s): Tertiary education (90%), Central govermment
Country Director: Michael F. Carter              administration (10%)
Project ID: P072123                              Theme(s): Education for the knowledge economy (P),
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Other social development (S), Technology diffusion (S)
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [Xj Credit   [ Grant      [ Guarantee     [ I Other:
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 250.00
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                        Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.5%                            Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):   Source                            Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                     64.00          0.00         64.00
IDA                                                         210.40         39.60        250.00
Total:                                                      274.40          39.60       314.00
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
Department of Secondary and Higher Education
Address: Shastri Bhavan, New Delhi 110001, India
Contact Person: Mr. V. S. Pandey, Joint Secretary and National Project Director
Tel: 91-11-3382298           Fax: 91-11-3386659          Email: Vspandey@sb.nic.in
Other Agency(ies):
National Project Implementation Unit
Address: c/o Ed.CIL House, Plot 18 A, Sector 16 A, NOIDA, UP 201301, India
Contact Person: Mr. S.K. Misra, Central Project Advisor
Tel: 91-118-4513928          Fax: 91-118- 4513926           Email: npiu@del3.vsnl.net.in
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2003       2004_      2005      2006      2007      2008
Annual      9.00     40.00     68.00      72.00     48.00      13.00
Cumulative     9.00     49.00     117.00    189.00    237.00     250.00
Project implementation period: FY 2003-2008
Expected effectiveness date: 01/20/2003  Expected closing date:  06/30/2008
OCS PAD POW  F.  21f0



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
To support the production of high quality technical professionals through reforms in the technical!
engineering education system in order to raise productivity and competitiveness of the Indian economy
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Sector Indicators:
* Increased support of industry and services for R&D, consultancy and life long learning through
technical/engineering institutions
*   Increased demand from industry and services for high quality technical professionals
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
* Improved employment rate and earnings of graduates from participating institutions
*   Increased cooperation and resource sharing between institutions
* Improved internal efficiency of the engineering education system
*   Increased involvement of institutions with communities
*   Improved planning and management of engineering education system to make it demand-driven
and forward- looking
Output Indicators:
*   Increased number of high quality graduates in relevant and cutting-edge technologies
*   Increased number of postgraduates/research scholars in engineering
*   Increased professional outputs (publications, products, designs, patents, etc.) from participating
institutions
*   Number of joint research, design and development projects, consultancies, training programs,
etc., conducted by participating institutions
*   Increased revenue generation from outreach programs and services (as a percentage of annual
recurring expenditure)
*   Increased access to technical training for socially disadvantaged groups and unemployed youth
*   Cost and time efficient implementation of competitive funding process
*   Increased availability of well-trained system/institution managers
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: 21852- IN  Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/05/2001
The Bank Group's current priorities in India are defined around the Government's Ninth Five-year Plan
themes of strengthening the enabling environment for development and sustainable growth and
supporting critical interventions of special benefit to the poor and the disadvantaged. Strengthening the
enabling environment for development and growth involves the parallel and complementary task of
improving government effectiveness and enabling the private sector to contribute fully to economic
development.
Promoting private sector-led growth and investment will be critical for accelerated poverty reduction in
India. The Bank Group will focus, amongst other things, on promoting competitiveness in industry and
services. This would demand high quality skilled manpower to promote entrepreneurial growth in new
fields of industrial endeavor, to improve the productivity of Indian industry in both manufacturing and
- 2 -



services and make the industry internationally competitive, and to generate new avenues of employment
in the economy.
According to the CAS, the bottlenecks constraining growth in India include a shortage of appropriately
skilled and trained personnel. Although India has one of the largest stock of scientists, engineers, and
technicians, the quality of their training from many institutions below the first tier is poor. Keeping the
above in view, the Bank Group will focus on promoting policy and institutional reforms in the area of
technical education covering both public and private institutions to improve the quality of India's pool of
technical manpower.
The Technical/Engineering Education Quality Improvement Program will help to implement several
reforms in the existing system in India. The reforms, based on the National Policy of Education (NPE
-1986, revised 1992), focus on governance and financing of institutions, promotion of excellence through
competitive funding, networking of institutions for better utilization of resources, closer interaction with
local community and economy, and improved capacity of system management.
The Program is designed according to the guiding strategic principles of the CAS, namely: Selectivity
(only states and institutions willing to undertake reforms will be eligible for support; the participating
institutions will be selected on a competitive basis), Partnership (the program will be implemented fully
by the client based on the agreed parameters of funding; institutions will be funded based on their own
vision of excellence and close linkages with stakeholders), and Programmatic approach (Bank assistance
will be provided over a long-term in over-lapping phases to support reforms, excellence and innovations
as proposed by participating states and institutions that would be selected based on their proposals during
program implementation).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
With over 300 million persons still poor, India is pursuing "accelerated economic growth with equity".
Liberalization of the Indian economy, its gradual integration with the world economy and rapid
transformation into a knowledge-based society are increasing the demand for a well-trained workforce -
a workforce that is not only literate and has mastered specific skills, but is also able to acquire new skills
and knowledge independently. The pace of change and the intensity of competition are both likely to
increase as the economy continues to reform and especially as global standards come increasingly to
dominate a more outwardly oriented economy.
With the increased globalization of the Indian economy and the recent WTO general agreement on
trading in services, it has become imperative that the Indian industry improves its productivity and offers
goods and services in the international market at international levels of quality and at competitive cost.
While achieving this objective would require parallel effort on many fronts including reforms in
industrial policy, labor laws, trade policies and tariffs, the most vital component in transforming the
Indian economy would be up-gradation of the quality of the professional human resource, i.e., the
innovative and creative abilities of the working professionals, the skills and attitudes of the work force,
and the vision, dedication and maturity of the management. Technical education can play a decidedly
major role in promoting the type of human resource development such a transformation would demand.
Some of the indicators which point to the urgent need for improving the quality of skilled technical
manpower in the country are:
*   A spurt in the opening of R&D establishments by multinationals in high-tech areas of
information sciences, software engineering, bio-technology, telecommunication, and power
management and control.
-3-



*   The establishment of an increasing number of call centers to cater for international customer
satisfaction.
*   The increasing number of manufacturing units being established by large international business
houses in automotive industries, white goods, entertainment electronics, power control
equipment, etc.
All the above rest on the assumption that high-level skilled manpower is either available or can be
produced/trained to the required levels at a relatively low cost within India from the output of the Indian
educational system.
Recognizing the importance of higher education and science and technology for national development,
the Government of India (GOI) has provided full policy support and substantial public funds during the
past fifty years to create one of the world's largest systems of post-secondary technicalengineering
education. In 2001, it comprised over 1000 degree level and over 1200 diploma level institutions with a
total enrollment capacity of about 1.5 million. The system includes a few well-known institutions of
international standing on the one hand, and on the other hand, hundreds of newly established engineering
colleges, which are yet to meet the prescribed minimum norms and standards.
India's technical education system is mammoth if measured in absolute numbers of institutions and
students, surprisingly small if compared with OECD and other key developing country competitors in
terms of coverage of age eligibles or financial resources committed to it, inefficient, and generally of
relatively low quality in many institutions. The system, in large measure, met the manpower needs in a
bygone era of self-reliance. But it no longer does so in the new environment in which high talent
manpower must meet a single international standard and also respond to a growing demand for technical
education and training of students from all socioeconomic levels.
As described in detail in a recent Bank study on Scientific and Technical Manpower Development in
India (World Bank Report Number 2041 6-IN, Sept. 2000j, the publicly funded institutions/universities
providing S&T education in India are mostly not able to maintain high standards of education or to keep
pace with developments in knowledge and technology. They are constrained by the explosion in
enrollments, the sharply diminishing public financial support, and most importantly, by an overall
regulatory and management framework built on a myriad of multilayered controls and the supply-driven
approach of the past. In the absence of a strong quality assurance mechanism, most private engineering
education institutions also do not provide the necessary faculty, teaching materials, information access,
or infrastructure needed for quality education in spite of fees, willingly paid, which are often very high.
Many engineering graduates from second and third tier institutions cannot find suitable employment due
to a growing mismatch between their knowledge and current practice in the fields for which they are
trained.
More specifically, the sector study has documented the following major issues and causes (listed
according to their level of criticality) for deficiencies in India's higher scientific and technical manpower
development system, which must urgently be addressed if India is to utilize its huge potential for
economic prosperity and a better quality of life for its people.
Over-centralization, and lack of autonomy and accountability of institutions: Over-centralization in
decision making at the central and state levels has led to institutions being unable to respond
dynamically to a rapidly changing national economic environment that is demanding state-of-the-art
technical knowledge, multiple work skills and professional/entrepreneurial attitudes from graduates.
Most institutions have little authority in the areas of faculty appointments, student admissions,
- 4 -



structure and contents of programs, student performance evaluation methodology and financial
management. The absence of autonomy in academic decisions has inhibited innovations.
Resource constraint and wastage: In publicly funded institutions, government financing covers not
much more than staff salaries, which are too low to attract the best and brightest to academic careers.
Cost recovery from students forms a small fraction of expenditure. The existing controls and
regulations, in most cases, do not provide positive incentives to institutions to mobilize other
financial resources. Inadequate funding coexists with several inefficiencies in resource utilization:
excess capacity in many courses combined with heavy unmet demand for newer courses; significant
failure rates; average time taken for completing a course being longer than the expected duration of
the course; and underutilization of libraries and laboratories. There is very limited cooperation and
sharing of physical and human resources amongst institutions and even less with industry or public
research and development laboratories.
Poor quality and relevance (weak quality assurance mechanisms): While the Indian Institutes of
Technology (IITs) and a few other first-tier institutions offer world-class education and training in
engineering and technology incorporating the "best practices", a large number of institutions offer
rather outdated programs (prescribed by their affiliating university/Board) with inflexible structures
and content. Within each category of public, private aided and private unaided institutions, there is
wide variation in quality. Quality assurance mechanisms are weak and programs in less than 15
percent of institutions are accredited by the National Accreditation Board, established in 1996.
Information technology is not used significantly for teaching. No more than 6 percent of institutions
have any research activity worthy of note. Institutions are essentially unconnected to the industries
and sectors where their graduates find employment.
Faculty shortages and quality: Many institutions offering professional courses are unable to attract
and retain qualified and trained faculty due to noncompetitive pay packages, lengthy recruitment
procedures, and working environments that are professionally and technically underdeveloped and
intellectually unstimulating. Postgraduate seats remain unfilled. Approximately one-quarter of
teaching positions are vacant. Faculty shortages are more acute in Information Technolology (IT)
-related disciplines as industrial compensation and benefits are much higher. Only half of the faculty
members in professional institutions have a postgraduate degree and very few, a doctorate degree.
Poor technology/infrastructure support: In many institutions, physical facilities are largely
outmoded. Probably no more than 20 percentof the institutions - both public and private - have the
barest minimum of laboratory facilities necessary to meet the current demands. Communication lines
to most institutions are also extremely limited and of poor quality for computer or library linkages.
Libraries are unable to subscribe to current literature.
Limited access and regional disparity (equity): The total enrollment in higher education accounts for
less than 12% of the age- cohort. Of these, about 12% (i.e., 1.4% of the age-cohort) are enrolled in
engineering education. Some sections of the society (rural women, scheduled castes/tribes, and the
physically challenged) are poorly represented amongst the beneficiaries. The potential of the S&T
education system is also not being exploited fully to reach out and help people engaged in informal
sectors of the economy. In addition, there are large regional imbalances in the availability of
educational facilities, especially for professional courses.
The private unaided sector has made a major contribution in expanding access to technical/engineering
education. The expansion of the private sector has been governed by state government policies. To meet
- 5-



a very large student demand for professional training, a few states have encouraged private engineering
colleges and polytechnics to be established in large numbers. This fact accounts for much of the regional
imbalance in the availability of student places. Government institutions are established in a much more
regionally balanced manner both nationally and in each state.
To remedy the weaknesses, a consensus in India is developing around a major systemic reform strategy.
As outlined in the sector report, the strategy involves the following logically sequential interdependent
elements (the first is a precondition for improvements in the second, and so on down the list):
a) Empowerment (with full accountability) of institutions;
b) Optimal utilization of resources;
c) Mobilization of additional financial resources;
d) Establishing effective quality assurance mechanisms;
e) Networking of institutions to enhance capacity, improve quality and promote excellence; and
f) Establishing better and closer linkages with industry and community;
g) Increasing access and reducing regional imbalances.
The suggested reforms, when implemented, could help towards achieving the Government's vision for
technical/engineering education:
To develop and nurture a Technical Education System in the country which would produce skilled
manpower of the highest quality comparable to the very best in the world and in adequate numbers
to meet the complex technological needs of the economy; and would provide the nation a
comparative advantage in the creation and propagation of innovative technological solutions and in
the development of a technological capacity of the highest order, both for its application in economic
development of the country andfor becoming a major supplier of technology and technological
services in the world".
Government strategy: The developments in the Science, Technology and Engineering sectors have
largely been guided by the Scientific Policy Resolution adopted by Indian Parliament in 1958, which
among other things, calls for training of S&T personnel on a scale adequate to fulfill the country's needs
in science and education, agriculture and industry, and defence. Further support for development and
reforms in engineering education came with the adoption of the National Technology Policy Statement
(1983), the National Policy of Education (1986/1992), and the Information Technology Policy (2000).
The "Technology Vision for India 2020" released by the Prime Minister in 1996 calls for India to become
a developed nation by 2020 and one of the five biggest economic powers. In August 2001, the Prime
Minister released a task force report entitled: "India as Knowledge Superpower: Strategy for
Transformation", projecting a requirement of over 3 million trained knowledge workers and suggesting
ways and means to achieve the same.
The policy and vision documents recommend (a) public institutions to become more self-reliant with
reduced public subsidy; and (b) a significant role for the private sector in providing professional
education. This process has gained momentum in engineering education in recent years with well-known
public institutions allowed to raise their fees significantly, and a very large number of fully
self-supporting colleges permitted in the private sector to meet the growing demand. The sudden
capacity expansion unfortunately has been coupled with compromise on quality (mainly because of an
acute shortage of qualified faculty) and a skewed development of the private sector, concentrating more
on low-investment and high (social) demand disciplines (such as Electronics, IT, management, etc.).
Other critical disciplines of engineering remain confined to publicly funded institutions that also perform
- 6 -



major roles of providing access based on equity considerations.
Since 1992 when India began to liberalize and to open its doors to competition and globalization, the
need to strengthen the technical/engineering education system in the country has been acutely felt. At the
level of policy pronouncements, many bold steps have been announced in pursuit of a major
transformation of the system -- in capacity, effectiveness, quality, efficiency and outreach. Actual
implementation on the ground of these policy initiatives has been slow, as stakeholder commitment to
profound reform and institutional capacity to deliver it, especially in the states that have primary
responsibility for educational systems, have developed more slowly than the policy framework at the
national level.
The National Policy on Education (NPE), adopted in 1986 and modified in 1992, supports major reforms
at all levels of education. In technical education, it focuses on quality and relevance, excellence,
resource mobilization, greater institutional autonomy with accountability, networking, research, and
equity. The policy led to a number of new initiatives by the central government to support the system,
which included strengthening and upgradation of over 500 polytechnics through two Bank-assisted
Technician Education Projects.
A National Policy Initiative for Technician Education, approved in 1998 by the Ministry of Human
Resource Development, includes the following elements: (a) building partnership between institutions
and industry; (b) delegating certain decision-making powers and responsibility from state governments to
institutions and thereby bringing about a relaxation in the rather severe control and centralization that
exists in the current context; (c) awarding a high degree of autonomy to deserving institutions; (d)
introducing a high degree of flexibility in institutional program offerings and management; (e) instituting
a market-driven approach in curriculum design; (f) utilizing institutional resources for a larger spectrum
of academic services beyond formal academic programs; (g) encouraging institutions to engage in income
generation and resources mobilization activities; and (h) involving institutions in the development
process of the community.
The GOI's Information Technology Policy (2000) supports development of appropriate scientific and
technical manpower at various levels to make India a leader in information technology. A number of
initiatives are being supported under this policy in the public and private sectors.
The GOI's X Five-year Plan (2002-2007) is to focus on expansion of education facilities in information
technology, conversion of Regional Engineering Colleges (RECs) as National Institutes of Technology
(NITs) with a standard comparable to world-class institutions, improvement of postgraduate education in
engineering and technology, staff development, quality assurance and certification, networking of
institutions, granting of autonomy to institutions, and increasing technical education opportunities for
weaker sections of society and the physically challenged.
Consensus around the urgent need to implement the fundamental reforms, long identified in GOI policy
statements, has developed broadly in the last two to three years in many states and among all pertinent
stakeholders. Paucity of funds has become the binding constraint in implementation of major reforms.
-7 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Plan documents of GOI have identified upgradation of the technical/engineering education system as
one of the key issues in improving the competitiveness of the Indian economy. Although quality in the
entire science and technology sub-sector needs to be improved, GOI is taking up engineering education
first because of its immediate impact on improving the quality of technically trained manpower. Also
previous investments in technical education have already developed competences to go forward to the
next level of development - the search for excellence. The effort would be focused on two middle levels
of the system - colleges/university departments of engineering/technology, and polytechnics - where a
substantial drive for quality, relevance and efficiency continues to remain a primary need. The primary
focus would be on systemic reforms leading to a major improvement of quality of education and training
provided, relevance of program contents and responsiveness to current and future economnic needs, and
time and cost efficiency of system management at different levels.
The Program would address more specifically the following sector issues:
*   Governance: The Program will encourage major systemic reforms by limiting program support only
to the states willing to provide significant academic, financial, managerial and administrative
autonomy to their institutions. Only institutions with well thought-out proposals, and very firm and
explicit commitment to establish an entrepreneurial, responsive, participatory and accountable
management culture are likely to be selected as lead institutions.
*   Financing: GOI and State govemments propose to change their financing patterns to participating
institutions and introduce incentives for revenue generation to make public institutions more efficient
and self-reliant. Instead of the current method of 'same-for-all' investment funding for predetermined
activities, the competitive funding under the Program would be based on institutions' performance,
and their potentials, needs, vision and action plan.
*   Quality and relevance: The Program will support institutions' drive towards excellence based on
their own vision. The institutions would be selected through a transparent process of competition -
open to all eligible institutions. This drive for excellence by the selected institutions is expected to
influence, in significant measure, the quality and relevance of program offerings by other institutions
as well. The program will also support strengthening of quality assurance and monitoring
mechanisms.
*   Teaching-learning processes andfaculty shortages: The Program will support innovations in
teaching-learning processes, postgraduate and research programs in cutting edge technologies, and
short-tern training of high quality to attract bright students into the teaching profession.
*   Linkages: Institutions will be encouraged to form networks to share their resources and experience.
All participating institutions will also be expected to work closely with industry and local
community. This will help to minimize isolation of institutions and students, especially in remote
areas.
*   Internal efficiency: The Program would support efforts to reduce wastage of physical and human
resources and increase internal efficiency through rationalization of usage of physical resources,
multiskilling of support staff, improved monitoring and management practices, and through
development of counselling and academic assistance services for needy students.
*   Obsolescence: The Program will help with strengthening and mordemizing of libraries, laboratories
and workshopst, program offerings, staffing, and administrative support in institutions selected under
the program to be in line with current practices and technology.
*   System management: The Program will support training of system managers for planning,
implementation and monitoring. It will support policy research and the introduction of modem
management practices for significant improvement of system efficiency.
-8-



To achieve a system-wide impact with potential multiplier effect, the Program would use competitive
funding as a strategic vehicle for reforms (as against direct investment funding for meeting needs
projected by pre-identified institutions). This is expected to trigger innovative thinking and greater
ownership at the level of institutions. The process is also expected to result in a significant level of
stakeholder and beneficiary consultations and ownership. Enhanced level of performance of institutions
selected for funding, as well as the proposed strengthening of quality assurance mechanisms, are also
expected to have a very significant impact on both public and private institutions including those not
funded under the Program.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The GOI has planned, in conjunction with several States (Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala,
Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh - initially) that are willing to implement certain
reforms, a long-tern program to upscale and support the GOI's ongoing efforts of quality improvement in
technical/engineering education. The Program aims at supporting the production of high quality
technical professionals through reforms in the technical/engineering education system - for fostering and
propagating excellence - in order to raise productivity and competitiveness of the Indian economy.
The development objective of the Program is to be achieved through the following three groups of
activities derived from the National Policy on Education (NPE- 1986 as revised in 1992):
*   Creating an environment in which engineering education institutions can achieve their own goals
for excellence and sustain the same;
*   Supporting Institutional Development Subprojects of competitively selected institutions to
achieve higher levels of academic performance and relevance to the society and the economy,
through their individual efforts of quality up-gradation and through bi-directional sharing of each
others special qualities and resources; and
*   Supporting improvements in efficiency and effectiveness of the technical/engineering education
management system through training of technical/engineering education policy planners,
managers and administrators, and policy and system research studies.
Competitive funding will be used as the primary strategy to encourage systemic reforms and drive
towards excellence. Only states and institutions willing to undertake reforms in governance and
financing will be eligible for financial support under the Program. Proposals from clusters of
institutions (comprising lead institutions and network institutions) - based on their own vision, strategies
and action plan for institutional development-- will be selected through a national level competition.
Improvement of system management capacity - funded in a non-competitive investment mode - will
support system-wide improvements and reforms through the training of engineering/technical education
policy planners, managers and administrators; research studies; and the establishment of Program
management structures at the central and state levels.
The Program thus comprises of two components: (a) Institutional development through competitive
funding; and (b) System management capacity improvement. For various activities listed in some details
in Annex 2 and the GOI's Project Implementation Plan (PIP), the Program would fund expenditure
-9-



incurred according to the prescribed guidelines, on:
* Procurement of goods (equipment, books and learning resources, furniture, vehicles)
*   Works
*   Training and workshops
*   Consulting services
*   Incremental operating costs, including salaries of additional staff.
The distribution of funds would depend on the institutional development project proposals received from
institutions. It is anticipated that the maximum expenditure would be on procurement of goods (45-60
percent of the total project cost); funds allocation for works to institutions would be limited to aboutlO
percent.
The Program will be implemented as a centrally coordinated, multi-state, long-tern program of 10-12
years in 2-3 overlapping phases, each of about 5 years duration. Initially, Bank assistance would be
provided only for the First Phase of about S years. Based on an in-depth assessment at the mid-term,
assistance for a Second Phase partially overlapping with the First-Phase, could be negotiated. Similarly a
Third and Final Phase could commence before the end of the Second Phase. Each successive phase
would be built on the experience gained in earlier phases.
Component 1: Institutional Development through Competitive Funding
Under this component, well-performing engineering institutions - both public and private - would be
selected through an open competition for assistance to attain higher standards of quality of education and
to establish close linkages with industry, community and other institutions. The Program would support
the following three activities in each Institutional Development Subproject:
a) Promotion of Academic Excellence: Though the Program seeks achievement of academic
excellence in the entire technical education sub-sector, strategically it will support well-performing
and.competitively selected institutions (about 20 lead institutions and 60-80 networked institutions,
in the First Phase) to achieve their self-delineated vision of excellence.
The approach to achievement of excellence would, among others, include granting of very significant
autonomy to the institutions by the respective governments (GOI or state government); exercising of
autonomy by institutions with accountability and improved internal efficiencies; enhancing faculty
and staff competence, including institutional management and administration; recruiting and
retaining competent faculty; increasing and utilizing capacity for postgraduate education;
establishing teaching and research programs in cutting-edge technology areas; increasing interaction
with industry, enhancing sponsored research, consultancy and other revenue generating activities;
and instituting academic reforms including program flexibility.
b) Networking of Institutions for Quality Enhancement and Resource Sharing: This would be
achieved primarily through formal networks that would be established among lead institutions and
3-4 neighboring academic institutions (network institutions). The network activities would, among
others, include sharing of teaching, learning, physical and human resources; faculty and staff
competence enhancement; improvement of academic processes; and joint publications, researches
and consultancies.
In addition, participating institutions would be encouraged to develop/strengthen linkages with public
- 10-



and private research and development laboratories and organizations, as well as leading national and
international academic institutions, and industries.
c) Enhancing Quality and Reach of Services to Community and Economy: All lead institutions
and network institutions will participate in this sub-component with the involvement of faculty and
students. Technical and advisory services provided to the local community and economy (especially
informal sectors) would be demand-based.
Annex 2 summarizes a two-state process of selection of states and institutions, eligibility criteria and
evaluation methodology. In Stage 1, the institutions satisfying the eligibility criteria will be short-listed
as potential lead and networked institutions. In Stage 2, detailed institutional development proposals
submitted by clusters of institutions (forming composite proposals) would be selected on the basis of a
national competition among eligible institutions. This process will be followed in each cycle of
selection.
Component 2: System Management Capacity Improvement
This component will support: (a) development of a modem management style through training of policy
planners, managers and administrators from the central and participating State governments, and their
agencies concerned with the management of technical/engineering education, (b) policy and system
research studies at the State and national levels, (c) management of performance, reforms, quality and
efficiency audits of institutions, and (d) establishment of structures and facilities for Program
management at the central and State levels.
Further, the government would improvefrom its own resources the management capacity by establishing
an Educational Management Information System (EMIS), strengthening several resource institutions, and
supporting the National Board of Accreditation (NBA). The institutions in the Program will offer their
full co-operation to the EMIS for collection of data, their validation and for undertaking required
research studies.
The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) will act as a partner in development through its
National Board of Accreditation.
Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                       Costs     % of     financing   Bank-
(US$M)    Total     (US$M)    fihahcing
1.1.  Institutional Development through Competitive  304.50     97.0    243.50      97.4
Funding:
-- Promotion of academic excellence
-- Networking of institutions
-- Enhancing services to community and economy
2. System Management Capacity Improvement             9.50       3.0      6.50       2.6
Total Project Costs  314.00   100.0    250.00     100.0
Total Financing Required  314.00     100.0    250.00      100.0
Note: The above cost estimates refer only to the First Phase of the Program.
- 11 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Policy/administrative reforms at GOI and State levels: The Program seeks primarily to support the
changing role of the government as the author of framework and monitor of actions within it rather than a
direct administrator of institutions. This approach of GOI is now to be encouraged in states using the
program support for leverage. In this direction, the GOI and state governments would:
a. Accord and sustain very significant academic autonomy and full financial, administrative and
managerial autonomy to lead institutions; and grant substantial academic autonomy and full
financial, administrative and managerial autonomy to the networked institutions.
b. Release funds to the participating publicly funded and aided institutions on a block-grant basis,
and encourage the establishment of specific funds (corpus, staff development, depreciation and
maintenance) from savings, generated revenue, donations, and endowments, etc., in all Program
institutions.
c. Encourage participating institutions to increase recovery of cost of education and services.
d. Ensure comparable opportunities for both public and private institutions to provide high quality
teaching and learning.
e. Encourage networking of institutions including mobility of students and faculty.
f. Facilitate closer linkages between institutions and community and economy.
Institutional reforms: During Program implementation, the participating institutions would be expected
to accomplish most of the following in their own specific situation, as indicated in their Institutional
Development Subprojects selected for Program support:
a. Establish a governance and management system with participation of community, industry, staff
and students and a decentralized administrative system for creating the ambiance required for
achievement of high standards in education, training, research and development, diffusion of
knowledge and expertise and, service to local community and economy.
b. Allocate and spend adequate amounts on developmental activities, staff development,
modernization of teaching and training facilities, and upkeep of equipment and physical
infrastructure through designated funds established/to be established for each of these activities;
also establish a system for increasing efficiency of resources utilization.
c. Introduce structural and academic flexibility into programs offered to make them responsive to
market demands and to offer services as needed by the community and economy.
d. Provide incentives to faculty for participation in continuing education programs, consulting
services, services to community and economy, and for securing sponsored research &
development projects; also establish a faculty development system to attract and retain good
quality teachers.
e. Introduce reforms in student performance evaluation.
f. Establish a system for teacher performance appraisal by students, and teacher counseling.
g. Establish a system for periodic maintenance of equipment and physical infrastructure.
h. Maintain a record of graduates and conduct regular tracer studies.
i. Establish a mechanism for linkages with other institutions, R&D establishments, industry and
community.
j. Establish mechanisms for quality and efficiency audit of institutional activities including
academic processes and administrative procedures.
- 12-



3. Benefits and target population:
During the Phase-I of the Program, it is proposed to develop about 20 welt-perforrning engineering
education institutions as lead centers of excellence and support about 60-80 networked institutions. Thus
about 8-10 percent of existing (over 1000) degree level engineering education institutions are expected to
be supported. In addition, about 15-20 (of over 1200) selected polytechnics are proposed to be supported
for achieving academic excellence and to offer practice-focussed degree level programs - these
polytechnics would also form a part of networked institutions. The major benefits emerging from the
Programn are as follows:
Benefits at the sectoral level:
*   selected institutions reaching higher level of performance and producing high quality
professionals
*   improved participation of private sector in providing technical education of high quality and
service standards, thereby reducing the need for large additional public outlays
*   cost savings resulting from improvements in intemal efficiency, better utilization of capacity
through enrollment management and networking, enhanced institutional capacity, improved
system planning and management
*   enhancement of revenues (other than through public budgets) through cost recovery, consultancy
and sponsored research projects
*   enhanced contributions to technological growth and knowledge
*   improvement in the eaming capacity of artisans and unemployed youth of the community
through enhancement of their technical skills.
Benefits for the economy:
*   improvement in productivity through the provision of high quality engineering manpower
*   higher growth in industries using new technologies through the provision of trained personnel in
these disciplines
*   greater innovation by firms through enhanced industry/community-institute interaction, financing
of research projects by industry, industry-based training of students and staff
*   availability of inter-institutional teams of experts in critical areas of technologies
*   foreign investment likely to be encouraged due to the availability of a pool of highly skilled
engineers who are globally competitive (provided that other factors conducive to foreign
investments are also created)
Benefits at the individual levelU target population:
*   higher earnings of graduates and reduced duration of unemployment due to closer alignment of
institutions with labor market demand
*   superior skills and training of about 25,000 students graduating every year from participating
institutions
*   knowledge enhancement of over 10,000 persons per year benefiting from continuing education
and training programs
*   professional development of about 2,000 teachers and, education managers and administrators
every year
*   technical help to about 30,000 persons per year exposed to community outreach programs of the
participating institutions
*   over 100,000 students (i.e., some 10% of students enrolled for engineering degree in India)
affected by general systemic reformns in the participating states.
- 13 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Program Management/Implementation
GOI will implement the Program along with 6-8 major states during the first phase. It will be a
central-cum- multi-state program with overall policy directives, coordination and directions for all
program activities provided by the Department of Secondary and Higher Education (DSHE) in the
Ministry of Human Resource Development of the Government of India. It will include a major central
component to support GOI-funded institutions, competitively selected under the Program. The overall
responsibility for coordination, implementation and monitoring of the Program at the central level and
through the states will be vested in the National Project Director (NPD), who will be a senior official of
the rank of a Joint Secretary in the DSHE. The NPD will be assisted by a National Project
Implementation Unit (NPIU). The NPIU will provide inforrnation and best practice examples, guidance
and support to governments and institutions on all aspects of Program implementation including the
selection process, procurement and financial issues; facilitate fellowship programs, and periodically
monitor progress of program implementation at the central and state levels. The NPIU will provide
support to the National Screening Committee in eligibility determination of institutions, to the Evaluation
Committee in evaluation of Institutional Development Subproject proposals, and to the National
Selection Committee in the selection of proposals from institutions.
At the state level, the state secretaries of education assisted by the state directors of technical/higher
education will be responsible for facilitating Program implementation. A State Project Facilitation Unit
(SPFU) in each of the participating states will provide support in the state-level screening process, and be
the link between individual institutions and the state government for all policy and financial matters. The
SPFU will also provide guidance and support to the individual institutions in project implementation, and
will be responsible for overall coordination and monitoring of Program implementation at the state level.
At the institutional level, project implementation will be the responsibility of the respective Head of the
institution through an Institutional Project Management Unit (IPMU). The IPMU would assist the head
of the institution in fulfilling all -project-related obligations (physical, qualitative, financial, legal, etc.)
and providing necessary periodic progress reports to the institute management, SPFU, NPIU, and the
NPD. The IPMUs would also facilitate the necessary reviews and audits as required.
Program Monitoring
The primary responsibility for monitoring the individual institutional projects will lie with the SPFUs
and the NPIU, and on a broader level with the Government of India. Self-monitoring by the individual
institutions would also be required. The basis for monitoring will be the action plans prepared by each
institution, and a set of key performance indicators.
The methods of monitoring would include periodic progress assessment of institutional projects by their
respective Boards of Governors (BOGs) and SPFUs based on institutional progress reports, and by the
SPFUs and NPIU through visits to institutions and reports from externally conducted quality, efficiency,
reforms and performance audits. In addition, there would be bi-annual joint reviews by the GOI and the
IDA, which will generally cover targets and performance indicators for individual projects with special
focus on implementation of policy and institutional reforms, functioning of improved procedures and
processes and achievement in quality components. These reviews would include visits to select
institutions, and interaction with students, teachers, employers and community representatives. The GOI
and the Bank will also jointly assess the overall achievement of Program objectives at the end of each
Program phase.
- 14-



The set of indicators proposed in Annex I are composite indices - to be based on a much bigger set of
input, output and outcome indicators - which are under development and refinement by the NPIU. A
few are spelled out in the PIP and table 4.2 of Annex 4.
In addition to the above, the NPIU will facilitate research studies on various Program aspects and share
the findings with the GOI and the IDA. The TORs for studies will be agreed upon with the IDA.
Funds Flow
For the centrally supported institutions and the NPIU, funds will be budgeted under identifiable budget
line items in the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD), Government of India (GOI), and
for state-supported institutions and SPFUs, in the budgets of the respective participating state
governments. In the case of the Center, on approval of the budget by the Parliament, MHRD will release
annual fund requirements in three to four installments through cheques/ drafts to the institutions that fall
under Central funding. These institutions will maintain separate bank accounts for Program funds.
MHRD will also release funds to NPIU in 3-4 installments.
For the state-funded and aided institutions and SPFUs, on approval of the budget by the respective State
Legislature, the State Governments will allocate and release the Program funds in 34 installments each
year as grants through cheques/drafts. Each SPFU and funded and aided institution will maintain a
separate bank account for the Program funds. Funds to private institutions will be on-lent by the
respective State Governments in three to four installments each year.
Procurement
See Section E4.3.
D. Project Rationale
I. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The Program will support production of high quality professionals through reforms in the engineering
education system. The Program approach is to be selective, by focusing on the high quality institutions
that have the potential to develop as centers of excellence, while enabling the benefits to spread through
the system by networking of institutions. Further, systemic benefits would be obtained by building
management capacity at the national and state levels.
At the identification stage, the GOI, states and the Bank discussed various approaches including the
following:
(a) Investment project for pre-identified institutions: This alternative was ruled out because the
implementation mechanism for such a project would not encourage the cultural changes within
institutions and in the governance of the system that would be necessary for systemic transformation.
The intent is to establish a new regime of incentives for the technical/engineering education subsector
and to invite institution level responses to those new incentives. The current Program approach shifts the
locus of decision-making and drive for excellence to the institutions themselves while enabling the
institutions to respond to changes in the economy and society through the provision of appropriate
financial, material and human resources and the creation of an enabling policy environment.
(b) Expanding the capacity of the Indian Institutes of Technology (lITs) or creating new IlTs: There are
only seven IITs at present, each with a moderate enrollment capacity. Expanding these institutions
substantially would affect the supply of faculty to other institutions and potentially lower their quality in
- 15 -



the short run. Five of these institutions were established with significant bilateral technical assistance
during 1950-70. These are of intemational standards, working with full autonomy and close national and
intemational linkages. Further investments in these institutions would not contribute to systemic reforms
needed in the engineering education system in India. On the other hand, the gap in levels between IlTs
and others would widen further. The creation of new IHTs would require significantly higher resources
with each new IIT costing over US$200 million in capital costs.
(c) Focus on only afew 'focus states" in contrast to the national approach adopted in this Program:
Investments in engineering education in the Bank's focus states could complement other sectoral
investments and measures to improve the environment for private investment and growth. While
enrollment capacity is heavily concentrated in a few states (not all of them the Bank's focus states), high
quality public institutions (both Central and state) are dispersed across the states. Further, due to the
relatively high mobility of engineering graduates and postgraduates (polytechnic graduates have less
mobility), the benefits of the investments in the focus states would not necessarily be captured by
students or industry in these states. The national approach would enable all states willing to reform their
technical! engineering education systems and high quality institutions from across the country to
voluntarily participate in improving their quality and efficiency and those of networked partners. The
creation of a facilitating environment would need changes in regulations and procedures by both Central
and state governments and this is more likely to happen if the approach is national rather than
state-specific.
(d) Direct central assistance versus state-level projects: The main limitation of a centrally funded
approach covering all institutions, including state level institutions, is that it does not encourage
ownership and active participation by state governments who are important partners in the development
of the sub-sector. In order to create an enabling environment across the country for centers of excellence
to emerge, state govemments would need to take decisions regarding the grant of autonomy to
institutions and regarding the participation of private unaided institutions, including the modalities for
repayment of loans advanced by the state government under the Program. The GOI therefore proposes to
cover central institutions from the central budget and the rest under the respective state budget support.
(e) Industrial participation as an option: A majority of self-financing institutions in the private sector
are largely catering to the needs of low investment, high retums popular fields such as IT, Electronics,
and Management. Not many investors are willing to take up other critical areas requiring significant
capital investments. Some institutions established by industrial houses have also gradually become
dependent on public support. The private sector would not be able to raise resources to the extent of
US$500 million estimated for creating centers of excellence in emerging technologies. However, greater
participation of industry is desirable and its participation in management of institutions is sought.
(f) Training abroad in high-technology areas: This option was rejected as it would help develop
individuals to meet short-term needs but would not contribute to building local capacity and improving
the performance and efficiency of the system as a whole. Further, a large number of trained students may
be lost to the economy through out-migration.
(g) Providing student loan/scholarships/vouchers: With the limited seats available under the present
very complex process of admissions with reservations/quotas for several categories of applicants, heavy
demand from students, and willingness of many to pay high fees to get admission in good institutions,
this option is unlikely to encourage the range of reforms envisaged in institutions. In addition, such a
scheme would need to be coupled with reduced direct public funding of institutions and correspondingly
increased fee. This would reduce access to disadvantaged group of students. As seen in other
developing countries, governance and sustainability of such a scheme would pose its own challenges.
- 16 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                    Project                 (PSR) Ratings
._________________________________   (Bank-financed  projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
To assist in upgrading the training of  Electronics Industry     S            S
medium and high level technical and  Development - HRD
professional manpower needed for the Component (Ln. 3093-IN)
rapid and efficient growth of the  (closed FY96)
electronic industry.             (Co-financed by the Swiss
Agency for Development and
Cooperation)
To improve the quality and efficiency Vocational Education Proj ect  S         S
of craftsman and apprenticeship  (Cr. 2008-IN) (closed FY99)
training; and to improve and diversify
advanced training programs.
To support national policy initiatives  Technician Education Project  HS      HS
to modernize and expand technician  (Cr. 2130-IN) (closed FY99)
education and improve its quality and
efficiency (in nine states).
To support national policy initiatives  Second Technician Education  HS       HS
to modernize and expand technician  Project (Cr. 2223-TN) (closed
education and improve its quality and  FY00)
efficiency (in eight states and two
union territories).
To assist the industrially and   Third Technician Education      S             S
economically underdeveloped and  Project (Cr. 3413-IN)
geographically remote states to expand (approved FY01 )
capacity and improve the quality and
efficiency of technician education to
meet the specific economic needs of
each state.                                                              -
Other development agencies
Strengthening of Regional Engineering UK-British Council- REC
Colleges in selected disciplines.  Project (closed FY99)
Strengthening of industry - institute  Canada-India Project
interaction and continuing education  (on-going)
programs in selected polytechnics.
Skills development programs in   GTZ- Madhya Pradesh Govt.
advanced technologies.           CRISP Project (closed FY02)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
-17 -



The World Bank assisted the Government of India and state governments during 1990-1999 through
Technician Education I & II projects (Cr. 2130-IN and Cr. 2223-EN) for upgradation and strengthening of
over 530 polytechnics in 19 States and Union Territories with IDA credits totaling about US$500
million. The projects, which closed in September 1998 and October 1999 respectively, generated the
following remarkable achievements:
*   Increase in women enrollment in technician education from 11% to about 30%;
*   Introduction of over 200 new and emerging technology programs;
* Creation of major facilities for technical training of the physically challenged;
* Modernization of some 6000 workshops, laboratories, and libraries;
*   Training of over 15000 teachers (including industrial exposure); and
* Significant improvements in internal and external efficiency of polytechnics.
The two Projects also piloted the modest beginnings of the needed systemic reforms with promising
results through introduction of: (a) program (curricular) flexibility; (b) some elements of institutional
autonomy; (c) greater self reliance through resource mobilization including cost recovery from
beneficiaries; (d) effective linkages with industry; and (e) continuing education programs in selected
polytechnics.
The Operations Evaluation Department (OED) of the Bank has recently (FY00) conducted an audit of
Bank support in the technical education and vocational training subsector in India. It found the
implementation of Technician Education Projects I & II to be highly satisfactory and the Indian
experience, in some ways, best practice. It also identified certain areas of weakness and supported
further Bank assistance in the subsector.
Other donors have also supported the development of engineering education in India. The first five
Indian Institutes of Technology were each established during 1950-65 with technical assistance from a
single bilateral donor (US, USSR, Germany, UK), involving twining arrangements with foreign
institutions. The Swiss Agency for Development Cooperation (SDC) joined with IBRD to support 14
engineering colleges and 12 polytechnics during 1990-96 through the Manpower Component of the
Electronics Industry Development Project (Ln. 3093- IN; IBRD loan of US$8 million and SDC grant of
CHF 25 million) Further, programs in energy science, materials, information technology, and design at
eight Regional Engineering Colleges received GBP 6.2 million from the UK over the period 1994 to
1999. In 1992-94, a 150-year-old engineering college at Pune received a grant of Yen 720 million (US$7
million) from Japan for modernization. Germany and Canada have also provided assistance to a few
polytechnics in India. Some institutions have received support for joint research under bilateral
programs notably with the USA and France.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank has built up substantial experience supporting tertiary education reforms in Argentina, Chile,
Indonesia, Jordan, Romania and Vietnam through performance-based funding, accreditation and
management information systems as key elements to trigger quality and efficiency in their respective
systems. Brazil introduced competitive finding and science and technology research to increase and
improve the stock of high-level human capital. Higher education reforms in China include renewal and
restructuring of science and engineering disciplines and the finding of innovative forms of cooperation,
which include partnerships and networks of institutions. The proposed Program adapts the concept of
competitive finding open to all institutions and networking as keys to promoting system-wide reforms.
- 18 -



The Program design has benefited from major recommendations in some recent, relevant
publications/policy notes of the Bank. These include: Higher Education in Developing Countries: Perils
and Promise (2000), World Development Report -- Knowledgefor Development (1999), Bank-ILO study
on Vocational Educational and Training Reforms: Matching Skills to Markets and Budgets, Bank
Reports - Constructing Knowledge Societies: New Challenge for Tertiary Education (2002), and Science
and Technology in Development (2002) - (under finalization). The following lessons of experience have
been incorporated in the design of the Program:
*   Borrower ownership: Sustained commitment and participation of major stakeholders are crucial
to successful implementation.
*   Political economy: This warrants close attention by the Bank when determining the kind of
changes that are feasible in a country, and the role stakeholders and beneficiaries should play in
the process.
*   System-wide approaches: The degree of comprehensiveness of the Bank's support strategy is an
important predictor of outcome. Policy measures and investments which are not integrated into a
broad reform program on a global vision and strategy for change are less likely to bear fruits.
*   Reliance on incentives: The extent to which projects rely on positive incentives rather than
mandatory edicts to stimulate change has a great influence on their outcomes, as institutions tend
to respond more readily to constructive stimuli. Well-designed competitive funds greatly
stimulate the performance of tertiary education institutions and can be powerful vehicles for
transformation and innovations.
*   Monitoring and evaluation: Govemments should pay special attention to monitoring and
evaluation, which is often neglected in their preoccupation with financing and the provision of
training.
The Bank has built a close partnership with the Government of India and several state governments in the
development of technical education over the past 12 years. The Program builds on the experience gained
and confidence developed through these projects in introducing systemic reforms, although on a small
scale, in the Indian context. Some of the recommendations of the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED) Performance Audit Report on Investment in Technical Education and Vocational Training in
India, and the major reform strategies suggested in the Bank's Sector study on Scientific and Technical
Manpower Development in India, are also taken note of in the program design.
The experience in India indicates that an early consensus on Program scope and components through
micro-planning at institutional level would help in Program progress. The design of the Program is based
on detailed consultations with and inputs from state secretaries and directors of technical education,
principals and faculty and students of Regional Engineering Colleges and other engineering colleges and
polytechnics, the Technical Teachers' Training Institutes (TTTIs) and National Technical Manpower
Information System (NTMIS) in the Institute for Applied Manpower & Research (IAMR), the All India
Council for Technical Education, the National Board of Accreditation, the Planning Commission, and
industry and community representatives.
Key to the success of the two Technician Education Projects was full ownership by the states together
with the policy support and critical technical assistance from the Center, which is ensured in.the design
of the present Program. The Program has the necessary support of state governments. Effective central
coordination, recognition of good performance of states through allocation of additional funds,
monitoring and evaluation studies, sharing the problems and possible solutions through workshops,
promoting healthy competition and cooperation between states, and facilitating responsive management
had helped the earlier projects. Similar strategies are incorporated in the Program design.
- 19-



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
After the adoption of the National Policy on Education (NPE) in 1986, the GOI has taken a number of
initiatives aimed at reforming the technical education system. These include establishment of the
statutory All India Council for Technical Education in 1987, the National Board of Accreditation in
1996, the Five-Year Plan support for schemes on 'centers of excellence', 'autonomous institutions', staff
development, thrust areas of technical education, etc., and support for a very large-scale expansion of
technical education in the private sector. The financing pattem of many top ranking institutions (IlTs,
USc, HMs, etc.) is changed from deficit-financing to a 'block-grant' pattem with incentives to generate
additional revenue. Ten Regional Engineering Colleges have been up-graded as National Institutes of
Technology, with "deemed-to-be university" status.
As further evidence of GOI's commitment to a systemic transformation of technical education in India,
action is initiated on the basis of the work of several high level expert committees whose critical
examinations of key sector issues and recommendations for profound policy reforms have become
available during the last three years. These include:
*   Mashelkar Committee Report on Regional Engineering Colleges (1998)
*   Rama Rao Committee Report on Post Graduate Education in Engineering and Technology
(1999), AICTE
*   Indiresan Committee Report on Technical Teachers' Training Institutes (November 2000),
MHRD
*   Draft Policy Guidelines for Training Teachers of Polytechnics and Engineering Colleges (May
2000), MHRD
*   IT Manpower Advisory Committee (2000), MHRD
*   Raju Committee Report on Networking of Engineering Institutions (2001)
*   Swaminadhan Committee Report on Mobilization of Additional Resources for Technical
Education, AICTE
*   India as Knowledge Superpower: Strategy for Transformation (June 2001), Planning
Commission
*   Tenth Five Year Plan (2002-2007) - Working Group Paper on Technical Education (October
2001).
In addition, several other important initiatives planned or already underway include:
*   The Prime Minister's decision to launch Phase H of the Technology Development Missions
program of the GOI (January 2001), including a mission on management of technical education
*   GOI's decision to introduce a uniform national level examination as the basis for admission to
engineering colleges
*   GOI's intention to expand the mission of the four Technical Teachers' Training Institutes to
encompass the staff development needs of the engineering colleges as well as the polytechnics,
and to upgrade and resource them accordingly
*   GOI's actions to change the regulatory framework to encourage the emergence of strong higher
education institutions in the private sector, including universities and deemed to be universities.
*   GOI's new science budget to double funding for academic infrastructure.
*   Offer of full support from industry leaders for quality improvement in engineering education.
Several States have opened the system to the private sector for investment in human development. Public
institutions are also being permitted to generate additional resources and utilize them for institutional
development. Some states have given autonomy to the institutions or placed engineering colleges (both
- 20 -



public and private) under state universities for engineering and technology for better management and
quality assurance. Many states have indicated their willingness to implement systemic reforms suggested
by the GOI and by the Bank's sector study.
The ground has been prepared for far-reaching reforms of the technical education sector. Assuming that
the governments at the Union and State levels now follow-up by implementing the expert
recommendations, including through allocation of the necessary resources, very significant elements of
the desired systemic transformation of engineering education will in fact be underway.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
In the last ten years, the Bank has funded four successful projects in the technical/engineering education
subsector in India, making it the most important partner in modernization and upgradation of technical
education - as a complement to the Bank's major involvement in Primary Education Program in India.
The discipline attending to design, implementation and monitoring of projects assisted by the World
Bank is highly valued by both the Central and state governments. The Bank brings valuable international
knowledge and expertise in systemic reforms in the areas of tertiary education. The Bank's support would
accelerate system-wide reforms proposed in the Program, which may otherwise take much longer due to
resource limitations. In addition, the Bank's participation during Program implementation, as
professional colleagues, would help encourage Indian counterparts, who often tend to remain closed in,
to look at relevant international experience. The proposed Program will also provide the opportunity for
continuation of the Bank's international efforts in tertiary education.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit     NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The economic analysis examines the following issues: (i) the market for engineering skills; (ii) the
rationale for public investment; and (iii) the costs and benefits of the Program.
The Market for Engineering Skills
The formal engineering education system currently embraces 1,059 degree level institutions with an
approved annual intake of 294,075 at the undergraduate level. The public sector (comprising about 180
Central and state government institutions) provides only 17 percent of total enrollment at the
undergraduate level; most of the expansion in capacity in the nineties has occurred in the private sector.
The supply of undergraduate engineering education is segmented by quality with the high quality
institutes being mainly in the public sector.
Student demand for undergraduate engineering education is also differentiated by quality. Students prefer
high quality education and, in the absence of restrictions on fees, they would be willing to pay more for
higher quality than for lower quality. Due to regulations on fees, developed on the basis of guidelines
which are applicable to the entire country, the limited high quality seats in publicly funded colleges are
offered at the lowest fees (although fee levels vary by state). Hence, there is considerable excess demand
for the highest quality of engineering education and this is cleared by a screening mechanism consisting
of entrance examinations and an elaborate system of quotas.
The supply-side constraints on the expansion of high quality undergraduate engineering education arise
- 21 -



due to the following factors: (i) budgetary factors, limiting the overall growth of public expenditure on
technical education, and growth in real salaries in the public sector resulting in relatively small amounts
being spent on quality improvement; and (ii) limited contribution by the private sector to high quality
engineering education, despite its substantial contribution to overall capacity expansion. Lack of access
to capital markets and high interest rates on borrowed funds prevent mobilization of capital on the
required scale by the private sector. Credit market failures also prevent individuals from accessing loan
funds to finance engineering education. Regulations on fees (fixed by each state government for all
colleges in a state in line with national guidelines) and the level of unit costs (determined by AICTE
guidelines on staff-student ratios, salary levels of staff) lead to revenue gaps and attempts by private
colleges to save on expenditure on quality improvement (faculty training or depreciation); and (iii)
inflexibility of institutions to adapt courses and curricula to the rapidly changing needs of the economy
and the labor market.
Postgraduate engineering education is provided only in the IlTs, the RECs, some state government and
University colleges and a few private colleges. There are 21,460 seats available in 242 institutions, but it
is estimated that about half of this capacity remains underutilized as (a) demand is influenced by the
relatively anticipated financial returns to teaching and research (which employs postgraduates) and high
opportunity costs, and (b) relatively small number of applicants pass through a national level Graduate
Aptitude Test for Engineering (GATE).
Demandfor Technological/Engineering Skills and Demand-Supply Mismatches
Since liberalization in the early 1990s, the private sector demand for engineers and technicians has been
growing strongly. Data show that employment of engineers and technicians in the private sector grew at
5.5% annually during the period from 1991 to 1995, and this pace has been maintained since then.
Unfortunately there has been limited rigorous analysis examining the demand for technical and
engineering skills in India. However, the limited data do suggest demand-supply mismatches in
particular disciplines. Discussions with employers indicate that lack of appropriate technical skills is a
bottleneck when firms consider expansion of output or technological upgradation. It is also felt that
graduates of engineering institutions lack practical knowledge and have to undergo significant on-the-job
training.
Rationale for Public Investment and Justification for Program Components
There are four reasons for public intervention in engineering education and all four are relevant in the
Indian context: (i) market failure: this is reflected in the supply-side constraints discussed earlier, which
prevent the private sector from expanding the supply of high quality engineering education; (ii)
contribution to growth: engineering education contributes to innovations in productive technologies,
augments productivity and increases the range and variety of products. In particular, externalities
associated with emerging technologies, postgraduate education and research and development suggest a
rationale for public investment in these areas; (iii) equity: very few poor students enroll in engineering
education and due to the prevailing fee/quota system, most of the subsidies for engineering education are
not currently directed toward the poorer students; and (iv) information asymmetry: the government has
a crucial role to play in the collection, analysis and dissemination of information on skill needs in the
economy and the type and quality of education provided in different institutions. Both these types of
information are currently not available on a large scale in India. In addition, there is excessive regulation
of both the government and private colleges that make it difficult for them to be responsive to the
changing labor market needs.
- 22 -



The Program has two components: (i) competitive grants program under which direct support would be
provided to selected public and private institutions for their Institutional Development Subprojects, and
(ii) system management capacity improvement. The first component addresses supply-side constraints by
improving the quality of public and private institutions (excluding the top level institutions like the IlTs),
through investments in lead institutions and networked partners, thereby increasing the overall supply of
high quality places in engineering education. Program expenditures will be mainly devoted to activities
to improve quality, student learning and research activities (including improvements in instructional
techniques and instructional resources; modernized curricula and evaluation methods). The competitive
grant mechanism also aims to direct public expenditures towards those areas with significant
externalities. The selection criteria favor those institutions that encourage postgraduate education and/or
introduce new programs in emerging technologies. Granting of academic, financial, managerial and
administrative autonomy to institutions is a condition of eligibility for states to participate in the Program
and this is expected to improve market orientation and flexibility, as well as increase private financing
(for services provided by the particiapting institutions) which will enable institutions to sustain quality
improvements after the end of the Program. The introduction of the block grant scheme in publicly
funded institutions is expected to improve the efficiency of resource allocation within institutions.
The second component will contribute to system efficiencies by building the capacity of managers,
research studies, reducing information asymmetries, and improving quality assurance mechanisms.
The Program does not address issues relating to efficiency and equity arising from the current fee/quota
structure, which are govemed by national guidelines/law and not amenable to change at this juncture, or
from the current pattern of providing subsidies to institutions. However, it is anticipated that many of
these issues will be analyzed further as part of the research studies envisaged under the Program on
policies to improve equity and efficiency.
Cost-Benefit Analysis of the Competitive Grant Component
The economic benefits from the Program can be classified into three categories. First, the efficiency of
public spending is expected to improve as the financing of publicly funded institutions shifts from a
system of gap-filling grants to block grants. Second, due to changes in the financing mechanism which
would encourage institutions to generate additional revenue, private financing is expected to increase.
Third, labor market outcomes improve with increases in earnings, employment rates and speed of
employment.
Gains from the improvement in efficiency of public use are difficult to quantify. The main incentives
arise from the shift to the block grant scheme for publicly funded institutions which is expected to
encourage institutions to economize on expenditures, re-allocate resources to quality improvement
activities and mobilize additional resources from the private sector.
Additional resource mobilization from private sources as a result of the shift to the block grant system is
a quantifiable benefit from the Program. Pre-project studies indicate that even RECs generate less than 5
percent of their annual recurrent expenditure from non-fee revenues. An estimate of the revenue
potential from continuing education programs and consultancy services suggests that up to 15 percent of
recurrent expenditures of each selected institution could be financed from these sources.
An internal rate of return has been calculated using the costs of the Program and benefits arising from
improvements in internal efficiency (proxied by higher pass out rates) and in external efficiency (proxied
by the higher probability of employment and higher earnings for three groups of students - postgraduate,
degree and diploma level. Benefits arising from increased resource generation and non-quantifiable
- 23 -



external benefits - which could potentially be significant - are excluded from the calculation. Using
assumptions of moderate increases in these parameters over existing estimated values, the IRR is
expected to be 14 percent. However, if the Program significantly underperforms - little increase in pass
rates, employment probabilities and earnings - the IRR is 3 percent; if performance exceeds the assumed
values, the IRR could be as high as 23 percent.
Rates of return have also been computed assuming that the total number of beneficiaries are only a
fraction of the potential beneficiaries of the Program. If only half the potential beneficiaries benefit from
the Program, the IRR will be 3 percent. If only half the students in network institutions benefit from the
Program, the rate of return is 8 percent. These simulations highlight the risks associated with the
Program, particularly the networking and academic excellence sub-components. If these two
sub-components do not lead to institution-wide benefits for all students (and not just for the specific
programs or departments that are funded), there will be a significant decline in the IRR. This, in turn,
highlights the importance of institution-level governance and academic reforms for the success of the
Program. The results also show that the rates of return are sensitive to changes in assumptions on
number of beneficiaries, graduation rates, employment probability and wages. It will be necessary to
monitor these variables during the life of the Program, and to regularly conduct impact evaluations to
evaluate the labor market benefits for project participants in comparison to non-participants. It will also
be important to try and start getting some measures of the currently non-quantifiable benefits of the
Program, which are likely to be significant.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Total project (Program -Phase I) costs are estimated at US$314.0 million. The foreign exchange
component is estimated to be about US$39.6 and local costs including taxes at US$274.4 million. The
Bank credit of US$250.0 million will finance 79.6 percent of the total cost and the Government of India
will provide the remaining.US$64.0 million. Of the total cost, 7.5 percent will be spent in the first year,
24.2 percent in the second year, 29.9 percent in the third year, 27.6 percent in the fourth year, and 10.8
percent in the final year.
Fiscal Impact:
Not applicable.
3. Technical:
The technical content of the Program has been extensively reviewed with the Borrower. Consultations
have taken place with many policy planners both at the Center and several states, with institutions,
faculty, students, and employers. The Bank has taken an active part in these consultations along with
officials of the Government of India. Based on these interactions and discussions at several workshops
organized by the Government, detailed criteria for participation in the program by states and by
institutions, and criteria for selection of proposals for funding have evolved. The appropriateness of the
eligibility criteria for lead and network institutions were field- tested through several dummy runs with a
few sample institutions.
The Government of India has prepared a large number of documents highlighting the concept and
philosophy of the Program, detailing plans and procedures for participation, identifying educational
reforms which are a prerequisite for fostering excellence and making them mandatory for all participating
states, developing an Educational Management Information System, and evolving an appropriate
Program management, monitoring and evaluation system. Some of the issues, which have been given
- 24 -



special attention, are:
a. Importance of Policy Reforms: Only states that are willing and able to introduce desired reforms
within a limited time frame would be permitted to take part in the Program. The states that have
already initiated advance action on the reforms would be included in the first phase of the
Program. Also participating institutions will have to accept and implement these reforms along
with safeguards to insure against misuse or lack of accountability.
b. Transparency in Selection Process: To ensure confidence in the selection process in a
competitive environment, it is essential that the selection process be not only fair but also
transparent. It is appreciated that while eligibility of states and institutions for participation
would not create any problem for evaluation, the selection of lead and network institutions and
evaluation of proposals submitted by them for fuinding would require a high level of integrity,
professional maturity and experience in promoting excellence in an educational environment.
The problem is complicated by the fact that proposals for individual institutions would be
multi-dimensional, with differing visions of excellence, varying objectives, differing time frames
for implementation and differing demands for physical and financial resources. Criteria for
eligibility for participation would be widely circulated before inviting proposals and a
self-evaluation proforma for institutional eligibility has been included in the Working Document
for States and Institutions prepared by the NPIU. Detailed guidelines for evaluation of the
composite proposals submitted by eligible lead institutions together with their network partners
is under preparation and would be validated before use.
c. Building Capacity for Strategic Planning: Participating institutions are required to develop their
own vision, mission, and objectives, their implementation strategies and their plans of action to
meet their self-determined level of excellence. Many of the participating institutions may have
never done any strategic planning in the past and would need training on best practices and hand
holding in the beginning. Provision has been made in the Program to give such training and
assistance before institutions prepare their proposals for funding. Over the period of the Program,
sufficient competence would be built in the participating institutions for strategic planning which
would then permeate to the rest of the technical education system.
d. Involvement ofAICTE and NBA: The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) is the
statutory body responsible for planning of technical education in the country and for setting up
standards of education through the National Board of Accreditation (NBA). Assistance of
AICTE and NBA would be required for accrediting courses of participating institutions,
empowering institutions in several ways, starting new courses in frontier areas of technology, for
permitting innovative experiments in delivery systems, and for monitoring performance and
maintenance of excellence. Discussions with the respective chairpersons of the AICTE and the
NBA have resulted in strong support for the Program and an assurance that accreditation of
courses in participating institutions and permission to start new programs and to bring
innovations in the delivery system would be put on a fast track.
e. Involvement of Industry: Discussions have taken place between leaders of Indian industry and the
Govemment on the scope and desirability of the Program. The Bank has taken part in these
discussions. Industry leaders have expressed the urgent need for upgrading the competence of
Indian engineers and technicians to intemational levels of performance in view of the
competition Indian industry is facing from multinational firms and from cheap imports from
many foreign countries. Their support for the Program was unequivocal and they have assured
full support in its implementation.
f. Identification of Critical Parameters for Success and their Monitoring: The Program design
includes identification of critical parameters for success by each institution submitting a proposal
for funding their vision of excellence, and detailing a methodology for their monitoring and for
initiating auto-correction actions if things go wrong. Additionally, performance monitoring and
correction would be done at the SPFU and NPrU levels on parameters identified holistically for
- 25 -



the success of the Program.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
At the national level, the overall policy guidance, coordination and directions for the Program will be
provided by the Department of Secondary and Higher Education in the Ministry of Human Resource
Development (MHRD) of the Government of India. The National Project Director (NPD), appointed by
MHRD in the rank of a Joint Secretary to the GOI, will be responsible for Program implementation at the
national level. The NPD will be assisted by the National Project Implementation Unit (NPIU).
At the state level, the government department dealing with technicallengineering education will be
responsible for Program implementation. The concerned department will be assisted by a State Project
Facilitation Unit (SPFU). SPFUs will work closely with the NPIU.
Both MHRD and the States have large residual experience of implementing externally funded projects
including World Bank-funded projects.
4.2 Project management:
Only a skeleton staff of the existing NPIU has been involved in Program preparation and similar skeleton
staff groups have prepared the State reports. Although many members of these groups have had
experience of previous World Bank-funded Technician Education Projects, they still needed a lot of
guidance in their present assignment. It would be highly desirable if most of those involved in the initial
preparation are retained in the implementation agencies. New staff to be appointed in the NPIU and
SPFUs would need considerable training in not only performing their functions but also for becoming
adequately equipped to guide and support institutions in their project implementation. Experience has
shown that even some of the resource institutions took time to understand the objectives of the Program,
which led to considerable delay in providing guidance and support to the NPIU and the States in Program
preparation.
Given the above situation, GOI would soon need to identify institutions that could provide training to
new staff of the NPIU and the SPFUs to enable them to efficiently and effectively discharge their
fimctions and to help and guide participating institutions. The training institutions may themselves need
assistance and guidance in formulating appropriate training programs.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The Bank is currently carrying out a comprehensive country procurement assessment review. The first
phase on prevailing procurement practices is completed and includes recommendations on public
procurement law; simpler procedures for debriefing; publishing contract awards; an annual opinion poll
on corruption perception; blacklisting rules and delays on various aspects dealing with procurement and
contract processing. These are now under discussion with the GOI.
Under competitive funding, both lead and network institutions would be selected during Program
implementation based on their specific proposals. It is anticipated that most of the institutions selected as
lead/network institutions would already have/or be given authority to procure goods and works at their
own level. The institutions are experienced enough to carry out small civil works at their level and
through NCB using the services of PWD/procurement consultants. A significant portion of goods
procurement is expected to be through NCB, and there would also be some ICBs for procuring high-value
- 26 -



items or items to be procured in large quantities. For the first year's ICB/NCs procurement the following
arrangements will be made. The NPIU will carry out ICB procurement for all institutions. In addition,
NPIU would also carry out NCB procurement for central institutions as required. The SPFUs would
undertake NCB procurement for the respective state-sponsored institutions. The SPFUs could also carry
out NCB procurement for the central institutions located in the state, if so desired by the latter. All
concerned staff would be formally trained in procurement at ASCI, Hyderabad or NIFM, Faridabad and
such other institutions as may be identified later. The need for hiring a procurement agency at the
national level would be reviewed after one year of Program effectiveness.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The Program has a financial management system that would be able to adequately account for project
resources and expenditures.
The NPIU, which is currently implementing the Third Technician Education Project, is being
strengthened for the Program. It has developed an Operations Manual laying down in detail the financial
policies and procedures in respect of Technician Education III. The manual has been operationalized.
The Operations Manual of Technician Education Im will be suitably modified and adopted for the
Program. The proposed system will ensure that information from all the executing institutions will be
collated and consolidated at the State level to generate the FMRs. The central project institutions will
submit their claims directly to NPIU, which will then consolidate all claims received from each SPFU,
central institution and its own, and file withdrawl claims through CAA&A of GOI to the Bank. NPIU
will also consolidate all quarterly FMRs for the entire project and send it to the NPD and theBank.
As institutions participating in the Program would be known only on selection through a competitive
process after Program effectiveness, the current assessment of the institutions is based on an interaction
with the institutions that had participated in a sensitization workshops organized by the GOI. The
publicly funded institutions follow Government accounting system with the focus on book keeping and
transactional control over expenditure. The financial information is generated to comply with the
Government procedures and audit requirements. The accounts of some of the institutions aspiring to be
lead institutions are computerized and the capability to generate various MIS does exist. The only private
institution that was reviewed demonstrated having a sound financial management system. FM-based
evaluation criteria have been developed which will be used to evaluate proposals received from the
institutions.
The Program funds for Institutional Development subprojects will be released to the participating
institutions in three to four installments each year on the basis of a Memorandum of Understanding
(MOU) between the States and the institution which will contain the terms and conditions of the
grant/loan. The first installment will not be more than 20% of the grant/loan amount and will be based on
the agreed performance target for quarter as per annual plan. The installments will be released on the
receipt of utilization certificates. Each subsequent installment will be released on utilization of 70% of
the amount of the previous installment. The same system will be followed for the private institutions too
- except that the funds will be onlent to them and not passed on as a grant.
A detailed staffing plan has been drawn up which is part of the PIP. The finance function will be
managed by a Financial Management Specialist at the NPIU. The finance function at SPFU will be
headed by an accounts officer and a senior accounts staff will work exclusively on the project at IPMUs.
- 27 -



5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
No environmental issues are expected to arise as a result of Program implementation. The Program
would not support any acquisition of land, construction of any new institution, or any major physical
expansion. Only some small constructions on the existing institutional sites and/or rehabilitation of
existing buildings would be supported under the Program.
The institutions would be encouraged to revise existing curricula/introduce new courses to increase
awareness of environmental issues amongst engineers and technicians graduating from the participating
institutions. The institutions would also be encouraged to undertake related training, research, design,
development, and consultancy assignments for industry and community.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not required
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
Not applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not required
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The key social goals related to the Program's Development Objective are (a) to provide equitable access
on merit; (b) to sensitize students to economic, social and environmental issues; and (c) to establish close
links between the participating educational institutions and community and economy. The key social
needs related to the achievement of these goals are:
*   to improve the access of disadvantaged groups (Scheduled Castes (SCs), Scheduled Tribes (STs),
Other Backward Classes (OBCs), minorities, and poor urban and rural students) to engineering
education and ensure their ability to perform well, complete the education successfully and
secure employment;
*   to increase the representation of women by removing barriers to their participation, and to
mainstream women's concerns both in the organization and pedagogy of the
technical/engineering education system;
*   for technical/engineering education system not only to meet the technical manpower
requirements of the country but also to be socially relevant and to train students who are
sensitive and responsive to the broader social and economic development needs of the Indian
society; and, similarly,
- 28 -



* for technical/engineering education system to forge a relationship with industry to jointly meet
social responsibility both to the students and the society.
The Program's social development outcomes are expected to be (a) enhanced participation of the
above-mentioned disadvantaged groups, including women, and improvements in their completion and
employment rates; and (b) well-established programs linking the education institutions with communities
and industries, and tangible positive benefits from these links. The institutions are expected to be more
responsive to the needs of the society -- the communities to which they are linked, other educational
institutions (e.g., secondary schools, training institutions), local youth who wish to acquire informal
training, local development projects, national and local industries, and R&D organizations.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
A full Social Assessment was carried out during Program preparation. This included visits to and
consultations with a range of selected technical education institutions in different parts of the country.
Within these institutions, meetings were held with faculty and students, and in some cases separately
with disadvantaged students, women faculty, etc. Several meetings were also held with representatives
of engineering institutions, industry representatives, and Central and state government officials in the
technical/engineering education sub-sector.
All applicant institutions are expected to prepare their proposals with the participation of faculty and
students, industry representatives, and the local communities that would benefit from their
informal/outreach programs. They are expected to identify specific activities to address the first two
needs listed in Section 6.1 above (i.e., improving the access of and outcomes pertaining to disadvantaged
groups and women). These proposals would be formulated with the participation of these groups. The
proposals would also include the programs planned with communities and industries, whose involvement
and consent would be required. During the competitive selection of proposals for funding under the
Program, attention will be paid to the participation of these groups in the preparation of the proposals and
to the quality of the actual activities proposed for them.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs may be part of the communities involved in the informal/outreach programs, and hence would be
among those consulted, as described above. The industries that would participate in the institute-industry
linkage programs (and consulted in their formulation) would most likely also be private sector
organizations. Where local community organizations and associations of industries exist, they would
also be involved in identifying, for example, training programs, proposed to meet the needs of these
partners. Evidence of these consultations will be included in and evaluated as part of the institutional
proposals.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The NPIU, responsible for the overall management of the program, would have an officer responsible for
issues related to gender and disadvantaged groups. Some of the institutions that are likely to participate
in the Program also have such officers. The relevant units in the participating institutions would be
responsible for ensuring the flow of benefits (e.g., remedial teaching, guidance counseling, books and
materials, job placement) to these disadvantaged groups. Further, special SC/ST cells are expected to be
created in each participating institution to monitor the flow of benefits to these groups. In addition, it is
expected that the SPFUs and IPMUs will oversee implementation of proposed activities for these groups.
The participating institutions would be expected to specify appropriate institutional arrangements to
ensure effective implementation of the activities they propose to address the first and second concerns
- 29 -



listed in Section 6.1 above.
Each participating institution will set up a community interaction cell (or equivalent) with representation
of the relevant stakeholders. This cell will decide on the implementation of programs that are related to
the third and fourth social development concerns listed in Section 6.1. The evaluation of institutional
proposals to select those who will receive the competitive grants under this Program will include
evaluation of both these sets of institutional arrangements.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The institutional project monitoring data would include at least the following indicators for SC/ST
students and women:
a.   Intake (and proportion of the SC/ST quota filled)
b.    Dropouts (by social group and trend over time)
c.    Number of students passing the course
d.    Number of years taken to complete the course
e.    Placement of students
f.   (Quantitative and qualitative) Outcomes of community linkage programs
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           0 Yes (9 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  (9 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   () Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     (9 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 U Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   * Yes () No
Involuntary Resettlement (OPIBP 4.12)                         (9 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             (9 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  (U Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       (9 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
A Tribal Development Plan (TDP) focusing on meeting the needs of Scheduled Tribe (ST) students has
been prepared by the GOI. The Plan also covers the needs of Scheduled Caste (SC) students. The Plan
aims to ensure the following:
a. State and Central government policies to ensure (reserve) seats for SC/ST candidates in
engineering/ technical education institutions will be implemented by all institutions from the
beginning of their projects;
b. SC/ST students will receive special coaching for entrance tests; "Pre-Examination Training
Centres" will be established in all institutions immediately on their selection into the Program;
c. SC/ST students will receive thorough orientation on entry to the institution, on its programs and
facilities and their entitlements;
d. They would have access to hostel facilities, guidance counseling, remedial teaching, books and
self-instructional materials, and grievance redressal; these activities are expected to improve their
- 30 -



academic performance and social situations; the assistance is expected to be in place in the
participating institutions within six months of the start of their projects;
e. Special Cells will be established in the institutions to ensure and monitor the flow of benefits to
the students;
f. Special promotional activities will be undertaken to increase the access of women in the SC/ST
communities to engineering education, and programs/facilities to assist their performance will be
implemented; and
g. Placement cells in the Program institutions will offer special services to foster employment of
SC/ST students.
The institutional proposals will provide details of the activities they will undertake in compliance with
the above TDP. These will be evaluated during the evaluation process, and recommendations for
improvements may be given. Finally, their implementation will be monitored, in keeping with a
monitoring plan that has also been prepared.
OP 4.01 has been applied by screening and categorizing the Phase-I of the Program. As no adverse
environmental impact is anticipated, an Environment Assessment has not been prepared.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The key sustainability issue is to ensure that the major reforms introduced by the Program are sustained
and deepened, and that the Program is eventually extended to cover other institutions that would be
excluded in the initial stages. For this to occur, two factors are important. First, institutions must
become financially sustainable so that the incremental recurrent expenditures can continue to be financed
and the beneficial effects of the reforms can be seen in practice. Specifically, there must be enough
funds to sustain vital aspects of the quality system introduced by the program, in particular faculty
training, participation in seminars, maintenance of equipment, attachments to industry, continuing
education programs, etc. Second, the major cultural changes introduced by the Program must become
intemalized and ingrained within institutions. This is a much more difficult process and its success will
depend to a large extent on how the competitive grant system is administered and the emphasis on
reviewing the desired progress on these dimensions during the selection/monitoring process. These key
sustainability issues will need to be addressed during supervision.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex l):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Support for administrative and             M        Extensive discussions with different state
institutional reforms may not continue              govemments conducted during program
with changes in govemments                          preparation should ensure support of major
political parties for reforms; all parties have
supported the National Policy on Education
Beneficiaries and stakeholders may         S        Institutions proposing to participate in the
oppose institutional reforms, especially            programs are required to develop their
those related to increased cost recovery            proposals in close consultation with
and tougher quality standards                       beneficiaries and stakeholders - students,
faculty, industry and comnmunity leaders
- 31 -



Existing regulatory mechanisms may        M        Discussions held with the controlling bodies
inhibit institutions from responding               during program development should ensure
quickly to changing technological and              their support for the success of the Program
economic stimuli
Participating institutions located in     S        Measures to promote excellence in all
smaller towns may not be able to attract           participating institutions and networking of
and retain good faculty and students               institutions would encourage students and
faculty to join the institutions selected in the
Program
Needs and areas of possible growth in     S         The Program approach would provide
short and long term are not well                   sufficient flexibility to meet the needs as they
identified and reflected in the programs            are identified; each institution applying for
offered by institutions                             funding would need to have extensive
consultations with stakeholders before making
its proposals for funding
State governments unable to provide       M        The program implementation progress would
public funds to participating institutions          be monitored closely and corrective measures
and management units on a regular basis            taken as needed. Only States willing to
implement reforms will be eligible to join the
Program
From Components to Outputs
Process and criteria of selection of      M         Program guide documents and PIP provide
institutions are not adequately publicized          adequate details and safeguard measures for a
and thus open to external influence                transparent process to minimize such pressures
Existing regulations and infrastructure   M         To a limited extent, the Program helps
inhibit institutions from cooperating and           overcome these problems in institutions
sharing resources                                   selected for support; cooperation would be on a
voluntary basis keeping in view various
physical constraints
Union and state governments may not       N         This is one of the main reforms sought by the
provide any incentives to institutions for          Program; only states which agree to introduce
revenue generation and better utilization           such reforms are eligible to participate in the
of public funds                                     Program
Management structure, processes, and      N         The Program guide document and PIP spell out
accountabilities of Program entities are           these in some details
not well defined
Staff and students in engineering         M         GOI, states and institute managements would
institutions may not be willing to                  give due recognition and support for
participate in services to community                community outreach programs
Due to financial constraints,             M         Program agreements and regular monitoring
Governments may not permit                          would help minimize this possibility;
opportunities to education managers and             alternative approaches for providing such
- 32 -



heads of institutions/faculties for                  exposure would also be sought
exposure to best practice in other
countries
Procurement may be delayed due to          M         NPIU and SPFUs will create procurement cells
participating institutes' non-familiarity of         with experienced staff to provide all necessary
the Bank guidelines                                  assistance to institutions
Funds may not be accounted for properly    M         The release of funds will be in installments,
and may be used for activities other than            which will be linked to the receipt of utilization
that of the Project.                                 certificate. Each subsequent installment will be
released on utilization of around 70% of the
amount of the previous installment. The
achievements of the agreed milestones will be
closely monitored by the SPFUs.
The institutions will be provided adequate
training in financial management and
accounting. The reporting formats will capture
financial and physical progress.
A large number of institutions are          S        Close FM supervision will ensure that control
reporting to SPFU and a number of                     issues are addressed at all levels of Program
financial reports and audit reports will             implementation. There will also be periodic
require analysis. There is a risk that                evaluation of FM capacity of the institutions
financial controls may be diluted                    receiving large funds.
Overall Risk Rating                         S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G. Main CreditConditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
a)    The Borrower shall
*   implement, through BTE, its part of the Project in accordance with the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP) agreed with the IDA, and shall not amend or waive any provision
thereof if, such amendments or waiver may materially or adversely affect the objectives or
implementation of the Project.
*   rigorously enforce the eligibility criteria for Project States set forth in the PIP and only
allow for inclusion in the Project those States which adequately demonstrate preparedness to
carry out all such reforms as are required by the eligibility criteria and which meet the
criteria in all respects.
*   rigorously enforce and cause States to enforce the eligibility criteria for Project Institutions
- 33 -



set forth in the PIP and ensure that only institutions which meet the criteria in all material
aspects are considered under the Project.
* ensure selection of institutions to participate and benefit under the Project is transparent and
in accordance with the selection process set forth in the PIP.
* ensure that evaluation of institutional proposals includes financial management evaluation
set forth in the PIP.
*   enter, through the BTE, into MOUs with the selected (centrally funded) institutions to cause
them to carry out their respective subprojects in accordance with the obligations under the
MOU and the PIP.
*   ensure that at all times that the States and the BTE implement and sustain all measures
required to be taken with the eligibility criteria and requirements set forth in the PIP
throughout the period of Project implementation. .
* have in place a fully operational implementation unit (NPIU) with adequate staff and
resources as provided in the PIP.
* by March 31 each year, jointly with the States and the BTE, develop and institute an annual
training and study tour program for improvement of system management capacity at the
central, state and institutional levels, and ensure its implementation
*   share with the IDA (a) semiannually no later than April 30 and October 31 in each year, the
findings of independent review of performance, reforms, quality and efficiency carried out
by each State and the BTE of their respective Project institutions in accordance with the
PIP; and (b) within 3 months of receiving the results of research studies carried out by the
SPFUs and the NPIU, a copy of such studies.
*   together with the Project States and the IDA, undertake biannual reviews each year, and a
mid-term review by October 31, 2005 on the basis of agreed perforrnance indicators;
b) Each State shall
*   implement its part of the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
agreed with the IDA, and shall not amend or waive any provision thereof if, such
amendments or waiver may materially or adversely affect the objectives or implementation
of the Project.
*   conform with the requirements of the eligibility criteria for Project States set forth in the PIP
and shall implement and sustain the necessary measures required in accordance with such
eligibility criteria in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the IDA.
*   enter into an MOU with each institutions selected for Project implementation and shall
cause them to carry out their respective projects in accordance with the obligations under
the MOU and the PIP.
*   ensure at all times that each of their respective Project institutions implements the
institutional reforms under the Project in accordance with the provisions of the PIP.
*   have in place a fully operational SPFU with qualified staff in adequate numbers and
sufficient resources to oversee Project implementation in the State; and cause it to
effectively and efficiently perform its assigned functions.
* ensure timely release of Project funds to each of their respective Project institutions in
accordance with the procedure set forth in the PIP.
* keep the Borrower and IDA informed of all the activities being carried out under the Project.
* ensure implementation of the agreed Tribal Development Plan by each of their respective
Project Institution in order that those identified in the Tribal Development Plan benefit from
the Project activities.
*   no later than April 30 and October 31 in each year, commission an independent review of
performance in Institutional Development Subproject Implementation, implementation of
reforms, quality of education, training and services, and administrative and managerial
- 34 -



efficiency of each of its Project Institution in accordance with the PIP and promptly release
results with a copy of the review to the institution and to the NPIU.
*   together with the Borrower and IDA, undertake biannual reviews each year, and a mid-term
review by October 31, 2005 on the basis of agreed performance indicators; and thereafter
implement the Project taking into account the results of such reviews..
H. Readiness for Implementation
I 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
1  1. b) Not applicable.
D 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
S 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
3 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The procurement documents for the first year's activities would be ready once participating institutions
are selected through competition - within four months of effectiveness.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Shashi K. Shrivastava            Michelle Riboud               L    ichael F. Carter
Team Leader                      Sector Manager                   Country Director
- 35 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
INDIA: Technical/Engineering Education Quality Improvement Project
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To promote competitiveness in Increased support of industry  Periodic reports of Center for  Government policies and
industry and services: Focus  and services for R&D,  Monitoring Economy (CMIE) actions will continue to
on promoting policy and   consultancy and life long                            strengthen the enabling
institutional reforms in the  learning through                                 environment for development
area of technical education to technical/engineering                           and growth
improve the quality of India's institutions
pool of technical manpower.
Increased demand from     Reports of professional bodies Private sector-led growth will
industry and services for high  such as Confederation of  accelerate poverty reduction in
quality technical professionals Indian Industry, Indian  India
Chambers of Commerce; labor
market surveys
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
To support production of high Improved employment rate  Tracer studies; labor market  Investments by private sector
quality technical professionals and eamings of graduates from surveys          in industry and services
through reforms in the    participating institutions                           continue to grow
technical/engineering
education system in order to
raise productivity and
competitiveness of the Indian
economy
Increased cooperation and  States' bi-annual progress  Participating states promote
resource sharing between  reports                    and facilitate cooperation
institutions                                         amongst institutions
Improved internal efficiency  Reports of State Directorates  Beneficiaries and stakeholders
of the engineering education  of Technical Education and  support institutional reform,
system                    All India Council for      especially those related to
Technical Education (AICTE) increased cost recovery and
higher quality standards
Increased involvement of  Institutions' quarterly progress
institutions with community  reports
Improved planning and     NPIU's bi-annual Program
management of engineering  performance reports
education system to make it
demand driven and forward
looking
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Component 1: Institutional                                                     Support for administrative and
Development through                                                            institutional reforms continues
Competitive Funding                                                            despite any possible changes
in union or state governments
- 36 -



A. Promotion of Academic   Increased number of high  Institutions' annual reports
Excellence                 quality graduates in relevant
and cutting-edge technologies
Increased number of        AICTE data                Regulatory mechanisms do not
postgraduates/research                               inhibit institutions to respond
scholars in engineering                              quickly to changing
technological and economic
stimuli
Increased professional outputs Institutions' annual reports
(publications, products,
designs, patents, etc.) from
participating institutions
B. Networking of Institutions  Number ofjoint research,  States' Program progress  Incentives exist to attract and
for Quality Enhancement and  design and development  reports                    retain good faculty and
Resource Sharing           projects, consultancies,                             students in participating
training programs, etc.,                             institutions located in smaller
conducted by participating                           towns
institutions
C. Enhancing Quality and   Increased revenue generation  Institutions' progress reports  Needs and areas of possible
Reach of Services to       from outreach programs and                           growth in short- and long-term
Community and Economy      services (as a percentage of                         are clearly identified and
annual recurring expenditure)                        reflected in the programs
offered by institutions
Increased access to technical  Institutions' annual reports  Institute-wide willingness of
training for socially                                faculty and students to
disadvantaged groups and                             participate in community
unemployed youth                                     outreach prograrns
Component 2: System
Management Capacity
Improvement
Establishment/strengthening of Cost and time efficient  NPIUs bi-annual Program  Governments able to provide
program management         implementation of competitive performance reports    public funds to participating
structures                 funding process                                      institutions and program
management units on a regular
basis
Research and training in   Increased availability of well- NPIUTs bi-annual Program
education planning and     trained system/institution  performance reports
management                 managers
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                           Outputs)
1. Institutional Development $304.50 Million
through Competitive
Funding
A. Promotion of Academic   $237.50 Million                                      Process and criteria for
Excellence                                                                      selection of institutions is kept
transparent, and free from
- 37 -



external influence
B. Networking of Institutions  $35.50 Million                                 Existing regulations and
for Quality Enhancement and                                                   infrastructure do not inhibit
Resource Sharing                                                             institutions from cooperating
and sharing resources
C. Enhancing Quality and  $31.50 Million                                      Union and state governments
Reach of Services to                                                          provide incentives to
Conmmunity and Economy                                                        institutions for revenue
generation and better
utilization of public funds
2. System Management      $9.50 Million
Capacity Improvement
Establishment/strengthening of                                                Management structure,
program management                                                            processes, and accountabilities
structures                                                                    of Program entities are well
defined within the existing
framework
Research and training in                                                      Government willing to
education planning and                                                        provide opportunities to
management                                                                    education managers and heads
of institutions/faculties for
exposure to best practice in
other countries
- 38 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
INDIA: Technical/Engineering Education Quality Improvement Project
In support of Phase I of the Technical/Engineering Education Quality Improvement Program
1.     Background
Recognizing the major role of high quality skilled manpower in the economic development of the country
and in the export of technology and services, the Government of India (GOI) has decided to give very
high priority to human resource development in engineering and technology. In this context, it is guided
by the following Vision Statement:
"To develop and nurture a Technical Education System in the country which would produce skilled
manpower of the highest quality comparable to the very best in the world and in adequate numbers
to meet the complex technological needs of the economy; and would provide the nation a
comparative advantage in the creation and propagation of innovative technological solutions and in
the development of a technological capacity of the highest order, both for its application in economic
development of the country andfor becoming a major supplier of technology and technological
services in the world".
For developing high quality technical manpower, the GOI has already taken several policy decisions,
developed strategies for implementation of policy directions, and planned a number of initiatives. Some
of the strategies and initiatives are already under implementation. Notable among these are: (a)
upgrading 10 of 17 Regional Engineering Colleges to National Institutes of Technology with
deemed-to-be-university status, and (b) conducting national level competitive examination for admission
to the participating institutions.
2.     Program Goal and Strategy
The GOI has planned to launch, in conjunction with several States that have agreed to introduce certain
reforms, a long-term Program which will help to upscale and support the ongoing efforts of GOI to
improve the quality of technical/engineering education and enhance existing capacity of the institutions
to become dynamic, demand-driven, quality conscious, efficient and forward-looking, responsive to rapid
economic and technological developments occurring both at the national and international levels.
The expected systemic and institutional transformation under the Program is to be achieved through the
following three groups of activities derived from the National Policy on Education (NPE- 1986 as revised
in 1992):
*   creating an environment in which engineering education institutions can achieve their own goals
for excellence and sustain the same with autonomy and accountability
*   supporting Institutional Development Subprojects of competitively selected institutions to
achieve higher levels of academic performance and relevance to the society and the economy,
through their individual efforts of quality up-gradation and through bidirectional sharing of each
others special qualities and resources; and
*   supporting improvements in efficiency and effectiveness of the technical/engineering education
management system through training of technical/engineering education policy planners,
- 39 -



managers and administrators, and system research studies.
3.   TechnialV Engineering Education Quality Improvement Program
The Program aims to support the production of high quality technical professionals through reforms in
the technical/engineering education system in order to raise productivity and competitiveness of the
Indian economy.
Competitive funding will be used as the primary strategy to encourage systemic reforms and drive
towards excellence. Only states and institutions willing to undertake reforms in governance and
financing will be eligible for financial support under the program. Proposal from clusters of institutions (
each cluster comprising a lead institution and 3-4 networked institutions) -- based on their own vision,
strategies and action plans -- would be selected through a national-level competition for (a) promotion of
acadernic excellence; (b) synergic networking of institutions; and (c) enhanced services to community
and economy. Later sections summarize a two-stage process of screening and selection of states and
institutions. eligibilitv criteria and evaluation methodolo.
Improvement of system management capacity - funded in a noncompetitive investment mode - would
support system-wide improvements and reforms through the training of engineering/technical education
policy planners, managers and administrators; research studies; and the establishment of Program
management structures at the central and state levels.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$304.50 million
(Costs indicated refer to the Program - Phase I only)
Institutional Development through Competitive Funding
Institutional Development would be achieved through three sub-components/activities: (a) Promotion of
academic excellence, (b) Networking of institutions for quality enhancement and resource sharing, and
(c) Enhancing quality and reach of services to community and economy.
Under this component, qualifying institutions, based on their capabilities, will be first selected either as
Lead institutions or as Network institutions. All these institutions will then be required to compete in
clusters for funding through specific Institutional Development Sub-project proposals, necessarily
covering all the three sub-components.
a) Promotion of Academic Excellence (US$237.50 Million)
As excellence is a multifaceted ideal, institutions are likely to have differing visions of excellence
and hence differing resource requirements for the attainment of their own goals. Institutions would
be free to focus their development plans for excellence on either the whole institution or a
Department that has already reached a high level of achievement.
Institutional plans for excellence are expected to include, among others, such activities as: (i)
improvements in institutional governance and, management and administrative practices; (ii)
improvements in teaching, training and leaming facilities; (iii) improvements in curricular practices;
(iv) faculty and staff development; (v) enhancement in postgraduate education and research, and
consultancy activities; (vi) enhanced interaction with industry; and (vii) increased attention to equity
-40 -



issues.
Improvements in Institutional Governance and, Management and Administrative Practices:
Autonomy of institutions to manage their own affairs is considered a pre-requisite for achievement of
excellence. Policy reforms by the sponsoring governments are expected to result in adequate
empowerment of institutions through grant of academic, financial, administrative and managerial
autonomy.
Each lead institution will be governed by its own Board of Governors (BOGs) with adequate
representation from the stakeholders. The BOGs are expected to pay particular attention to creating
the required ambience for excellence, and ensuring implementation and sustenance of reforms
envisaged under the Program. The BOGs will be responsible for ensuring implementation of all the
institutional reforms envisaged under the Program (described in a following section) including proper
management of block grant (for government-funded and -aided institutions) and, establishment and
management of Corpus Fund, Staff Development Fund, Depreciation/Renewal Fund and
Maintenance Fund in accordance with the guidelines issued by the concerned government.
Institutional management will be decentralized with delegation of financial and decision-making
powers to various functionaries. Improved management practices will also result in reduced wastage
of resources, and enhanced utilization of infrastructure and teaching-training facilities. Improvements
in administrative practices would be user-friendly, transparent, and supportive. Institutions will
increasingly recruit their own faculty and staff, provide competitive emoluments and perks for
attracting and retaining good quality faculty and staff, institute practices for recognition and reward
of merit in faculty and staff, and create conditions that would increase commitment of faculty, staff
and students for achieving and sustaining excellence.
Improvements in Teaching, Training and Learning Facilities: This would typically include: (i)
modernization and strengthening of laboratories, computer centers, and libraries; (ii) establishment of
new laboratories to meet the requirements for new program offerings in emerging areas;
postgraduate, doctoral and faculty research activities; continuing education programs for industry and
consultancy work; (iii) creation of facilities for self-learning; (iv) intensification of use of modern
teaching aids; and (v) establishment of campus-wide electronic connectivity and high-speed Internet
facilities. Each institution will establish a Depreciation/Renewal Fund to ensure that all the teaching,
training and learning facilities are kept adequately modernized in the post-Program period.
Improvements in Curricular Practices: With implementation of the policy reforms sought under the
Program, all institutions will be suitably empowered to carry out academic reforms. Lead institutions
will enjoy very significant academic autonomy, and most Network institutions substantial academic
autonomy.
All institutions will establish mechanisms for periodical review and improvement of curricula and
syllabi, and development of new ones, based on labor market information, feedback from alumni and
employers, and with active participation of stakeholders. All curricula will address the output
characteristics expected by the labor market in the technician diploma holders, the engineering
graduates and the postgraduates such as skills/abilities for problem solving, design, communication,
information processing, creative and innovative thinking, managing people at work, learning-to-leam,
etc. Curricula would also focus on the overall personality development of students including
development of positive attitudes, and appreciation of social and environmental concerns.
Innovations in curriculum development would include competency-based-curricula; provision of
self-learning, problem solving projects for community and industry; sandwich programs, learning by
-41 -



research, course flexibility, etc.
Curriculum implementation would be improved for maximizing student learning through continuous
student performance assessment, feedback to students and organization of remedial instructions;
extensive use of media, visits to and training in industry, invited expert lectures from industry and
field, problem solving projects from industry and community, etc.
Rigid program structures would be gradually replaced and flexibility introduced through multilevel
and multi-background entry, credit exemptions, credit transfers, flexible pace of learning through
accumulation of credits, and provision of wide choice of electives including those offered by other
institutions in the network.
Faculty and StaffDevelopment: Enhancement of faculty and staff competence would receive focused
attention under the Program. Besides being exposed to training for improved competence in
teaching-training, faculty would also be trained in management of industry and community
interactions, new techniques in research, student counseling, student performance evaluation, and
development of modem learning resources All the staff would be trained in their respective
functional areas for improved delivery and efficiency. Senior faculty and staff would be trained in
implementation and management of institutional reforms, and exposed to modem institution
management practices. The faculty would be encouraged to: undertake research projects and
consultancy, upgrade their qualifications, attend seminars and conferences, interact with peer groups
within India and abroad, establish linkages with academic institutions and industry, etc. For
continuous improvement of faculty competence, a mechanism would be instituted in each institution
for students' evaluation of teachers 'performance combined with feedback to teachers and peer
counseling for improvement. A Staff Development Fund established under the Program will ensure
sustenance of faculty and staff development activity in the post-Program period.
Enhancement in Postgraduate Education and Research, and Consultancy Activities: Increased output
of postgraduates and doctorates is of crucial importance for meeting the large requirement of teachers
and for meeting the needs of the industry. Based on national level signals and guidance from the
GOI/AICTE, institutions would introduce postgraduate programs, and reorient or phase out some of
the existing ones. Lead institutions in particular are expected to introduce doctoral programs. It is
expected that both postgraduate and doctoral programs will be made highly flexible to facilitate their
pursuit by in-service personnel. Institutions with the help of States/GOI/AICTE would institute
schemes for securing larger number of admissions to postgraduate and doctoral programs and
retention of students.
Increased participation of faculty in research, projects and consultancy would be promoted by all
institutions through merit recognition and, fiscal and career incentives. Lead institutions are expected
to establish research and consultancy cells, which would help faculty prepare proposals for securing
funds for sponsored research programs and projects and consultancy assignments. This cell would be
responsible for all follow up actions for timely flow of funds, and for ensuring timely and quality
delivery of results.
Enhanced Interaction with Industry: Interaction with industry would be intensified to obtain
academic benefits by way of increased relevance of curricula and expert lectures, and access to
specialized equipment; industrial training and placement benefits for students, professional benefits
for faculty through industrial exposure, and financial benefits for institutions through income from
sponsored research programs and projects, consultancy assignments and continuing education
programs, and receipt of donations. Institutions'would establish Institute-Industry Interaction Cells,
- 42 -



specifically responsible for promoting and nurturing interaction and partnership with industry.
Services offered by institutions to industry would include: conducting continuing education
programs; undertaking problem solving projects and consultancies on industrial products, services
and processes; testing and calibration; serving as training centers for industry, etc.
Contributions from industries to institutions could include: participation in Governing and other
bodies of the institutions; participation in curriculum improvement and development; training of
students in traditional and new technologies, providing expert lectures; helping students undertake
problem-solving projects; training teachers and staff in new technologies and processes, and
collaborating in sandwich program offerings.
Increased Attention to Equity Issues: All institutions would comply with the reservation policies of
the Central and State governments. In State funded institutions, percentage of reserved seats is about
50 percent (including 22.5 percent for SC and ST students). It is noted that SC/ST students, with
lower scholastic attainment at entry than those from the general category, have difficulty meeting the
demand of professional education and consequently have poor academic performance. Poor academic
performance is found to lead to some sort of informal segregation. To ameliorate the situation, all
Program institutions would: (i) establish coaching centers to upgrade the academic quality of SC/ST
candidates seeking admission to engineering education; (ii) institute mechanisms for identifying
areas of academic weakness and removing the.same through remedial teaching; and (iii) establish
SC/ST counseling cells responsible for providing advice and guidance, undertaking activities for
their psycho-social integration with the rest of the institute community, and for ensuring timely
payment of government financial assistance to students in these categories.
Although performance of female students at senior secondary examinations compare very favorably
with those of male students, women's preference for technical education continues to be low.
Participating institutions would also be expected to encourage greater women participation in
technical/engineering education through pro-active interventions such as reducing/eliminating
physical bottlenecks inhibiting female participation, removing misconceptions about engineering
career option for women, providing incentives for meritorious female students seeking admission in
engineering, providing interaction and counselling from role models -- female engineering teachers
and successful practicing professionals.
b) Networking of Institutions for Quality Enhancement and Resource Sharing (US$35.50
million)
Two types of networking are proposed-formal and non-formal. In Phase-1, the Program would
support development of excellence in about 20 selected clusters of institutions (about 100
institutions) through formal networking amongst well-performing institutions (called Lead
institutions) and institutions on the threshold of becoming well-performing (called Network
institutions). Such networks are expected to be formed between technological/technical universities,
deemed universities, university departments, university colleges, stand-alone colleges and
polytechnics. All network arrangements would be governed by a Memorandum of Understanding
among Lead institutions and Network institutions.
The formal networking envisages bidirectional sharing of expertise and resources among the
institutions. Lead institutions would help and guide the Network institutions in improving their
academic and research activities, and institutional management practices. Resource sharing between
the networked institutions will result not only in improved academic, research and consultancy
- 43 -



outputs but also in reduction in investment and operating costs.
In academic matters, institutions would share curricular improvements and new curricula,
innovations in curriculum implementation, teaching aids and modem leaming resources, faculty,
training facilities, etc. Students would have the benefit of attending special courses in another
institution. Institutions in a network would develop mechanisms for credit transfer. Libraries would
be gradually networked, and expensive library resources shared. Lead institutions would carry out,
organize and coordinate faculty and staff development programs for all the networked institutions.
Joint research projects, consultancies, book writing and paper writing, seminars and conferences
would be undertaken to build capacity in all the institutions.
Program institutions would be free to establish non-formal networks with R&D organizations,
specialized laboratories, eminent educational institutions, industry, community, institutions from
other formal networks, etc., for deriving a variety of benefits for the institution. Expenditure for
activities under such network will be borne by the networking institutions under operation and
maintenance.
c) Enhancing Quality and Reach of Services to Community and Economy (US$31.50 million)
Most institutions presently do render services to the community and the formal sector of the economy
(organized industry) through very limited involvement of faculty and almost nil involvement of the
students. Under the Program, two key changes will be brought into effect. First, all the faculty and
students of each institution will be involved in rendering services to the community and the economy.
Second, institutions as a whole will also extend services to the non-formal segment of the economy
(the unorganized industry). Student participation will be ensured through curriculum design.
Rendering of service by faculty will form a part of their service condition and count towards their
career progress. All the services offered by an institution would be demand based, and would be
identified through interaction with the community and the economy. Benefits are expected to accrue
not only to the community and the economy (through improved productivity, earnings and quality of
life) but also to students and faculty through implementation of projects and researches studies, and
thus gaining real-life problem solving experience; and to institutions through revenue generation and
mobilization of resources. For enhancing quality and reach of their services, institutions will
establish linkages with central and state government agencies, and nongovemment organizations that
are involved in providing similar services.
Project Component 2 - US$9.50 million
System Management Capacity Improvement
Implementation of reforms envisaged under the Program requires: (a) development of a modem
management style in the various agencies responsible for guiding and supporting the policy reforms, and
(b) establishment of structures and facilities for guiding and monitoring implementation of the Program
at the central and state levels. This component would support: (i) development of a modem management
style through training of policy planners, managers and administrators from the central and participating
State governments, and their bodies concerned with the management of technical/engineering education;
(ii) conduct of studies at the State and national levels, the findings of which would be used for making
improvements in policy and decision making processes, and implementation of reforms; (iii) conduct of
performance, reforms, quality and efficiency audits of institutions by States; and (iv) establishment of
structures and facilities for Program management at the central and State levels.
- 44 -



The system management capacity would be further strengthened by the GOI's support (from its own
resources) for establishing an Educational Management Information System (EMIS), strengthening
several resource institutions and supporting the National Board of Accreditation (NBA). The institutions
in the Program will offer their full cooperation to the EMIS for collection of data, their validation and for
undertaking required research studies.
4.     Selection of States and Institutions
The success of the Program for fostering and propagating excellence is dependent on two essential
conditions. Firstly, the State governments must be willing and prepared to create an environment with
policy reforms that would allow institutions to plan and manage their own affairs with autonomy, identify
their own goals of excellence and, achieve and sustain the same. Secondly, each institution should
possess the capacity for achieving higher standards and must be willing to exercise autonomy bestowed
on them with accountability and carry out the intended institutional reforms. These two conditions make
it necessary that selections be made of the States first and of the institutions sponsored by the selected
States thereafter.
As all the potential sponsoring agencies and all interested institutions are not expected to be ready to
implement the required reforms from the very inception of Phase-I of the Program, it is planned to make
selections of both the States and institutions in 2-3 cycles for Phase-I of the Program. States and
institutions not selected during the first cycle could try for the same during subsequent cycles of Phase-I;
they would also be free to try for selection in any of the subsequent phases of the Program.
Selection of States
Interested States and UTs will submit their proposals to GOI in a prescribed format. Through this
proposal, the States and UTs will demonstrate their commitment and preparedness to carry out reforms
required for meeting the prescribed eligibility criteria (listed in a following section). The State proposals
would also describe how: (i) each of the reforms would be brought into effect through policy support,
and/or administrative and procedural reforms; (ii) the reforms would be implemented, (iii)
implementation of reforms would be monitored at both the state and institutional levels; and (iv) the
effectiveness of the reforms in bringing about the desired systemic changes would be evaluated. The
National Project Director (NPD) will determine the eligibility of applicant States based on the merit of
their proposals and select the States to participate in a particular phase of the Program. After an initial
selection for a phase, if funds permit additional States could be selected to join the phase within a
specified period of project effectiveness. The results of the selections will be informed by the NPD
through written communication.
Selection of Institutions
Selection of institutions during each cycle of Phase-I of the Program will be carried out through a
two-step process. In the first step, eligibility of applicant institutions would be determined, based on
their eligibility applications, separately for Lead and Network institutions. In the second step, final
selection of clusters of institutions, based on their Composite Proposals, would be made at the national
level through a competitive process. The major activities involved in the entire process would include:
(a) determination of eligibility of institutions to be Lead/Network institutions at State/central and
national levels; (b) preparation of national list of eligible institutions and formation of networks; (c)
development of Composite Proposals (group of project proposals from all institutions in a network); (d)
evaluation of all eligible Composite Proposals and final selection of networks at the national level and
- 45 -



announcement of results of selection.
Determination of Eligibility of Institutions to be Lead/Network Institutions
On behalf of the NPD, the National Project Implementation Unit (NPIU) will announce, through short
advertisements in major national dailies, the start of Phase-I of the Program and invite submission of
eligibility applications from institutions from eligible States/UTs. The concemed State secretaries and
central institutions will also be directly informed of the start of Phase-I through a circular by the NPD.
The advertisement will contain a list of eligible States and address of the NPIU website. Institutions
would be advised to submit their eligibility applications (application format and details will be made
available on the NPIU website) in duplicate for consideration as Lead institution or Network institution
in one of the two prescribed formats (separate for engineering degree institutions and polytechnics) to
the office of the respective State Project Facilitation Unit (SPFU) after carrying out self-assessment.
Institutions in the central sector will submit their applications to the NPIU.
Each Eligibility Application format has 2 parts. Part-A deals with the conditions of eligibility (listed
below) that are to be necessarily met by the applicant institutions. Institutions not able to meet the
eligibility conditions will be disqualified. Part-B contains academic attainment parameters with
benchmarks. Achievement of institutions in meeting the benchmarks will be evaluated through a system
of scoring which is stated in the application formats.
Each eligible State and NPIJ will appoint their respective Screening Committees, which will scrutinize
the applications for veracity of statements made and score each application following the scoring method
and related guidelines given in the application formats. Institutions scoring 80% or more of the maximum
expected score would be considered for Lead Institution role; those scoring between 50-79% would be
considered for Network institutions; those scoring less than 50% would be advised to improve their
performance status and re-apply in another cycle or Program phase.
Each State and NPIU will prepare three lists of institutions: one for those recommended to be Lead
institutions, one for those recommended to be Network institutions, and one for those not recommended
for consideration for either Lead or Network status. These lists will be forwarded to the NPD together
with details of recommendations and one copy of each eligibility application received.
Preparation of National List of Eligible Institutions, Formation of Networks and Development of
Composite Proposals
A National Screening Committee will, on behalf of the NPD, examine the recommendations of the
States/NPIU, and compile national lists of: (a) eligible Lead institutions; and (b) eligible Network
institutions. The NPD will declare these lists to the respective States, advising them to initiate actions
that would result in formation of clusters and preparation of Composite Proposals in the prescribed
format. NPIU will make these lists available on its website, and announce the same through short
advertisements in leading newspapers. The advertisement will enable institutions to choose their partners
from within and outside the State of their location. It will also enable eligible Network institutions from
the States, which have no eligible Lead institution to approach an eligible Lead institution in another
State for possible networking. Institutions will form clusters in consultation with their sponsoring State.
Shortcomings in the eligibility applications would be communicated by NPIU and SPFU to ineligible
institutions in the central and state sectors respectively. These institutions would also be advised to
improve and re-apply in the next cycle.
- 46 -



Composite Proposal for each network will consist of individual proposals of Lead and Network
institutions, and the common element in these proposals will be the activities related to network
arrangement. Proposal of each Network institution will under this sub-component detail the bidirectional
flow of benefits between the Lead institution and itself, and give the related activities and action plans.
The proposal of Lead institution will sum all the bidirectional benefits, activities and action plans. Each
Lead institution will sign an MOU with its network institutions.
Evaluation of Composite Proposals
Composite Proposals will be forwarded by the States in which Lead institutions are located to the NPIU.
Each proposal of Lead and Network institutions must be accompanied by government orders in
compliance with the eligibility requirements for States listed below. Any individual proposal without
these orders would be disqualified for competition. A Composite Proposal as a whole would become
disqualified if either the Lead institution is disqualified or the number of qualifying Network institutions
is less than three. Disqualified proposals would be returned to the concerned States/NPIU along with a
statement of reasons. Proposals so returned could be improved and resubmitted in another cycle of
Phase-I or subsequent phase for competition.
An Evaluation Committee, assisted by sub-committees, constituted by the NPD will evaluate each
Composite Proposal to assess (i) the technical merit of the constituent action plans, (ii) their logical
framework and strategy, (iii) their cost effectiveness, and (iv) their inherent monitoring, quality assurance
and auto-correction mechanisms. The main proposal would be evaluated in the background of the
preparedness of the Lead Institution and its Network partners for undertaking a major quality
enhancement project, and their capability demonstrated through their present and past performance. The
proposal's interweaving of its action plans for various project activities and advance action proposed for
sustaining the gains from the Program in future will be given due consideration.
Detailed guidelines would be evolved to ensure that the evaluation mechanism is both fair and
transparent and overcomes the difficulty and complexity of using a common holistic yardstick for
proposals for fostering excellence having widely varying objectives, strategies, outputs and outcomes.
The evaluation sub-committees would score each composite proposal as per these guidelines and
prepare evaluation reports for the consideration of the Evaluation Committee and the National Selection
Committee (NSC).
Selection of Networks
A National Selection Committee (NSC) will be constituted by the Union Minister for Human Resource
Development as below:
*   Secretary, Department of Secondary & Higher Education, MHRD as Chairperson
*   One ex- or present Director of an Indian Institute of Technology
*   Three eminent experts from different professional organizations
*   Two industrialists
*   National Project Director as Member-Secretary
The NSC will consider the scores and evaluation reports and prepare a ranked list of Composite
Proposals based on their judgment of how best the proposals fit into Program objectives and help India in
its drive towards global competitiveness. The exact procedure for its working would be decided by the
NSC in its first meeting to be organized soon after the Project Effectiveness date. The procedure will be
made public.
- 47 -



Based on the ranked list of the first cycle, the NPD will allocate funds to institutions in order of merit.
The NPD will inform the concerned State Secretaries of the selections made and the funds allocated to
the selected institutions. The NPD will, for information and record, also simultaneously share this
information with IDA along with a copy of the proposals of the selected institutions.
Eligibility Criteria for States to Participate in the Program
a. To sponsor govermnent-funded and aided, and private unaided engineering institutions that meet
the prescribed eligibility criteria for participation in the Program through open competition.
b. To accept results of open competition for selection of Lead institutions and Network institutions
by a National Selection Committee.
c. To support both academic and nonacademic reforms to be carried out in the selected institutions.
d. To provide the agreed required financial support to the selected institutions and seek
reimbursement as per norms.
e. To provide funds to private institutions in accordance with an agreed mechanism for loan
repayment by institutions.
f. To accord and sustain very significant academic, and full financial, managerial and
administrative dutonomy to the selected Lead institutions.
g. To accord and sustain full financial, managerial and administrative autonomy, and substantial
academic autonomy to the selected Network institutions.
h. To permit the selected institutions to increase recovery of the cost of education from students.
i. To change pattern of fund releases to block grant basis.
j. To permit the selected institutions to generate, retain and utilize the generated revenue.
k. To permit and encourage selected institutions to establish Corpus Fund, Staff Development Fund,
Depreciatior/Renewal Fund (for equipment replacement) and Maintenance Fund (for
maintenance of equipment and buildings) and issue guidelines for proper utilization of
management of these funds.
1. To permit total participation of the institutions (all faculty and students) in community and
industry service.
m. To formulate a policy for enabling institutions to fill all-teaching and staff vacancies.
n. To continue supporting needy students as per current Government policy and practice.
o. To agree to implementation of the provisions of the Program's tribal development plan by all
institutions.
Eligibility Criteria for Institutions
*   Institutions only from eligible states and centrally funded institutions can compete for funds
under the Program.
*   The institution should have applied for accreditation to the NBA of the AICTE, if not already
accredited, and at least two batches must have graduated from the institution.
*   The institution should be willing to comply with all the criteria listed below:
a. To accept academic autonomy with accountability.
b. To accept full financial autonomy with accountability.
c. To accept full managerial autonomy with accountability.
d. To accept full adrninistrative autonomy with accountability.
e. To increase recovery of cost.of education from students.
f. To accept non-plan funding on block grant basis (not applicable to unaided institutions).
g. To establish distinct Corpus Fund, Staff Development Fund, Depreciation/Renewal Fund and
Maintenance Fund from the revenue generated and savings and to accept Central/State
- 48 -



government guidelines for utilization of these funds.
h. To accept the results of the enunciated process for award of competitive grants.
i. To institute positive measures for securing participation of faculty and students in providing
services to community and economy.
j. To implement activities related to the tribal development plan.
Selection Criteria for Institutions for Program Participation
Selection would be based on transparent criteria in three blocks:
a. quality of the proposal for achieving excellence,
b. preparedness for implementing institutional project and reforms related activities as
proposed, and
c. capability demonstrated through present and past performance.
a. Quality of the proposal for achieving excellence would include (illustrative)
* Action plans for strengthening existing seeds of excellence, removing existing
weaknesses, grabbing new opportunities or warding off threats
* Action plans demonstrating creation of new knowledge, improvement of
teaching/learning processes, increase in employability of graduates, resource
optimization intemally or through networking, improvment of service to community
and economy, or advancing the image of the department or institution
* Action plans with potentiality towards national technological capacity development
* Strategies for implementation
* Inter-linkages among action plans and anticipated benefits to students, faculty and
institution
* Cost effectiveness of the strategy adopted to achieve objectives
* Identification of critical parameters for success and their monitoring
*   Inclusion of auto-correction mechanisms for achieving success
b. Preparedness for undertaking a major project for quality enhancement would
include (illustrative)
*   Delineation of vision , rmission, and objectives
* Detailed SWOT analysis
* Progress on academic, financial, administrative and managerial autonomy
* Progress on block grant scheme
* Authority for retaining earnings
*   Intemal delegation of autonomy
* Consultations with industry and comrnunity including informal sector of economy
* Consultations and MOUs with Network partners
* Internal management practices to promote excellence
* Ownership of project by faculty, staff, and students
c. Capability demonstrated through present and past performance (illustrative)
* Adequacy of infrastructure
* Faculty competence and achievements
* Innovations in teaching/learning processes
* Developing required knowledge, skills, and attitudes among students through
curricula innovations
* Outputs in terms of graduates, post-graduates, research papers , patents, books,
- 49 -



continuing education programs, consultancy earnings, technology transfer schemes,
etc.
*    National/international seminars/conferences organized and number of participants
*    Assistance to graduates in getting employment
*    Interactions with industry and community
*    National and international recognition and awards, and twining arrangements
Priority would be given to the most cost-effective proposals with clear vision for sustained drive for
excellence beyond the Program support.
In addition to the above technical evaluation, the institutions would also be evaluated for adequacy of
their financial management system including arrangements for:
*    system for fund flow including the project funds
*    overall staffing in the financial management system of the institution and the specific staffing for
overall management of project funds.
*    accounting policies and procedures
*    budgeting system proposed to be adopted for all institutional funds including the project funds.
*    system to be used for making payments
*    system for keeping cash and the type of payments to be made in cash, cash security and system
for preventing its misuse.
*    system for safeguarding institutional assets
*    systems to be used/ adopted for carrying out audits and for reporting the results
*    systems for periodic monitoring of fund utilization and reporting of results
5.      Program Management
The needs for management of the Program are sound policy formulation, transparent and fair selection
procedures, autonomy in functioning at all levels combined with accountability, quick decision making,
strict performance monitoring and learning from experience. The various management functions
required to be performed for successful implementation are grouped into six broad categories: guidance
and direction; policy issues; selection of institutions; facilitation and coordination; implementation,
monitoring and control; and quality assurance. These will be performed at the central, State and
institutional levels as shown in tabular form below:
Management Function   Guidance      Policy    Selection Process  Facilitation and  Implementation  Quality
and         Issues                        Coordination    Monitoring and  Assurance
Direction                                                      Control
Responsibility Level
National Level         National    National       NSC with            NPEU            NPIU            NPIU
Steering    Project   assistance from the
Committee    Director       NPIU
State Level            State Steering  Secretary  SPFU for determination  SPFU         SPFU           SPFU
Committee                of eligibility of
institutions
Institutional Level     Board of   Board of                                      Board of Govemors   IPMU
Govemors   Governors                     I                   and IPMU
NSC: National Selection Committee        NPIU: National Project Implementation Unit
SPFU: State Project Implementation Unit  IPMU: institutional Project Management Unit
Note: While intemal quality monitoring will be the responsibility of each institution, SPFU and NPIU will carry out this
function with the assistance of external experts at state and central level respectively. NBA will carry out its function of
certification of quality in the Program institutions, and would be assisted by NPIU and SPFU as desired by the NBA.
- 50 -



National Level Management Structures
The Program will be guided and managed at the National level through two bodies-the National
Steering Committee, and the National Project Implementation Unit.
National Steering Committee
The 17-member National Steering Committee will be chaired by the Union Minister for Human Resource
Development. It will be assisted by the National Project Director in his/her capacity as its
Member-Secretary. The composition (details in the PIP) ensures pooling of wide experience and
knowledge of national and global development needs. This Committee will meet at least twice a year to
provide guidance and direction to the Program, suggest strategies for maximizing achievement of
Program goal of systemic transformation, and make decisions regarding non-performing states and
institutions.
National Project Implementation Unit (NPIU)
The NPIU will work under the guidance of a National Project Director, duly appointed by the MHRD in
the rank of a Joint Secretary to the Government of India. His/her broad functions would include: (a)
policy and critical decision making including decisions related to selection of states; (b) Program fund
management; (c) coordination with Program States and Ministries/Departments of the GOI; (d) liaison
with the World Bank; and (e) coordinating monitoring, reviewing and evaluating implementation of the
Program and its outcomes.
The Government of India is strengthening the NPIU, established for the Third Technician Education
Project, to handle the Program. In addition to providing support to the NPD in discharging his/her
functions and working closely with the State Project Facilitation Units (SPFUs) established in each
Program State, the NPIU will also: (a) conduct Program launch workshops and guide institutions in
preparation of composite proposals; (b) coordinate activities related to invitation and processing of
eligibility applications and composite proposals; (c) guide States and institutions on issues related to
procurement and appointment of consultants; (d) guide States and institutions on issues related to
reimbursement; (e) facilitate/organize management development programs, foreign study tours and
foreign fellowships programs; (f) conduct educational research studies; and (g) organize biannual,
mid-term and end of Phase I reviews, and prepare reference documents and reports for all the reviews.
State Level Management Structure
At the State, there will also be two formal management bodies, namely the State Steering Conmuittee and
the State Project Facilitation Unit (SPFU). The State Steering Committee will provide guidance and
direction to the concerned State Secretary and the SPFU for maximizing gains from the Program, and
suggest strategies for corrective measures to be taken at the State and institutional levels.
The basic infrastructure of SPFU has already been created for Program preparatory activities in all States.
The SPFUs will be fully functional well before program effectiveness. Each SPFU, with at least three
functional cells, will be headed by a State Project Advisor (SPA). Located preferably in the State capital,
it will provide support to the State Secretary in charge of technical/engineering education in facilitating,
coordinating and monitoring all institutional projects within the State and in interactions with GOI and
the NPD on policy and financial issues, and with the NBA on issues related to accreditation of
institutions. The major functions to be performed by SPFUs include: (a) providing support to the State
- 51 -



Screening Committee in processing of eligibility applications; (b) facilitating formation of networks
within and outside the State; (c) guiding and facilitating implementation of reforms by institutions; (d)
facilitating interaction of institutions with industry and community, and providing guidance for
enhancing services to community and economy; (e) conducting quality, efficiency and reform-related
audits using external agencies and causing remedial actions to be taken; (f) ensuring adequate and timely
fund flow to institutions; (g) providing guidance and assistance on issues related to procurement,
fellowship programs and use of consultant services; (h) monitoring and periodically reviewing progress
of implementation of institutional projects and causing remedial actions to be taken, and (i) receiving and
compiling State-wide audit reports, and preparing reimbursement claims based on inputs from
institutions.
Institutional Level Management Structures
At the institute level, an Institutional Project Management Unit (IPMU) will be responsible for
implementation of the project. It will report to the Board of Governors (or Governing
Council/Management Committee) of the Institute and coordinate with the respective SPFU and NPIU.
Board of Governors (BOG)
For exercising its managerial autonomy, each institution will have or establish its own BOGs with
adequate representation from the stakeholders, taking guidance from a sample Memorandum of
Association (MOA) and Rules developed by the GOI. The BOGs will meet at least once every three
months, and discharge its functions, which among others include: (a) taking all policy decisions; (b)
developing strategies for creating an ambience for excellence; (c) suggesting measures for enhancing
reach and effectiveness of services to community and industry; (d) ensuring institutional accountability
and compliance with reforms; (e) reviewing progress of institutional project implementation and giving
guidance for achieving project goals and targets; and (f) overseeing proper utilization of funds and
submission of reimbursement claims.
Institutional Project Management Units
Each Lead institution and Network institution will constitute an- Insitutional Project Management Unit
(IPMU), staffed solely by the institute faculty and staff and headed by the Head of the institution. The
exact composition of each IPMU and constitution of its sub-units will vary between institutions,
depending on the institutional project design. The overall responsibility for institutional project
implementation and its internal monitoring will be that of the IPMU, which will be assisted by units
assigned with work related to: (i) each of the sub-components of Institutional Development component;
(ii) procurement of goods, civil works and services; and fellowship and management development
programs; (iii) financial management; (iv) project implementation monitoring; and (v) conduct of quality
and efficiency audit of educational processes and institute functioning; and evaluation of institute's
performance in the exercise of autonomies with accountability, and in implementing reforms.
The major activities of each IPMU will include: (a) implementing activities related to academic
excellence, formal and non-formal networking, providing services to community and the economy, and
development of management capacity in accordance with the action plans contained in the institute
proposal; (b) monitoring achievement of targets; (c) conducting quality and efficiency audits and
submitting reports to BOGs along with recommendations for improvements; (d) monitoring compliance
with conditions of Program funding including the agreed institutional reforms, and submitting periodical
reports to BOGs along with recommendations for remedial actions as required; (e) ensuring timely
conduct of financial audits and timely submission of audit reports to SPFU; and (f) providing all relevant
- 52 -



information to SPFU for enabling the State Government to claim reimbursement.
6.     Program/ Project Monitoring
The primary responsibility for monitoring individual institutional projects will lie with the institutions
themselves and the SPFUs, and at the national level with the NPIU. IPMUs will monitor project activities
on day-to-day basis in their respective institutions and present quarterly progress reports to their
respective BOGs and SPFUs. The SPFUs will quarterly consolidate the reports from all the state
institutions and present the status to the concerned State Secretary and the. NPIU.
At the national level, progress of Program implementation will be reviewed periodically by the NPD, and
biannually, at mid-term and end-of-Phase jointly by the GOI and IDA. The monitoring and evaluation
will be based on the action plans prepared by each institution and a set of key performance indicators.
Focus of monitoring and evaluation will be on outcome and output indicators along with five key
project aspects: (a) implementation of reforms by institutions; (b) achievements in Program components
and sub-components; (c) procurement of resources and services; (d) achievement in staff development
and management capacity development activities; and (e) utilization of financial allocations. These five
aspects of Program monitoring would require a holistic view to be taken of actual achievements of
Program goals rather than focussing on mere completion of the process.
The tools for monitoring and evaluation would be: (a) institutional progress reports and internal quality
and efficiency audit reports; (b) visits to institutions by SPFUs and NPIU; (c) State's progress reports; (d)
policy and system research studies and external quality, efficiency, reforms and performance audit
reports; and (e) interactions with stakeholders.
Progress in implementation of the institutional reforms sought under the Program, functioning of
improved procedures and processes, achievements in quality components, achievement of targets related
to key performance indicators; and external quality, efficiency, reforms and performance audit reports
along with action taken reports would constitute important components of State reports prepared for
biannual and Mid-Term Reviews. The NPIU will, based on these State reports, present a State-wise
performance report with analysis and suggest remedial actions required at the State and national level, if
any, and present the same during the joint reviews. The NPrU report for each joint-review would also
include results of concluded research studies and status of ongoing studies. The joint-reviews would also
include visits to select institutions and interaction with stakeholders such as students, teachers and,
industry and community representatives. These joint-reviews will help identify problem areas and
suggest remedial actions to be taken at different levels.
The Mid-Term Review, undertaken jointly by the GOI and IDA, will also assess Program progress,
consider revised institutional development plans with new targets, take decisions regarding institutions
that have not shown satisfactory performance, and assess the Program design requirements for a
subsequent Program phase.
The GOI and IDA will also jointly undertake an Implementation Completion Review Mission to assess
the overall achievement of the Program objective at the end of each phase of the Program.
- 53 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
INDIA: Technical/Engineering Education Quality Improvement Project
Project Cost by Component                      Local        Foreign        Total
US$ million   US$ million   US$ million
A. Institutional Development sub-projects     239.40         34.20        273.60
(a) Promoting academic excellence           186.80         26.70        213.50
(b) Networking of institutions              28.00           4.00        32.00
(c) Providing services to community and     24.60           3.50        28.10
economy
B. System Management Capacity Improvement      8.40           0.60         9.00
Total Baseline Cost                           247.80         34.80        282.60
Physical Contingencies                         12.00          1.70         13.70
Price Contingencies                            14.60          3.10         17.70
Total Project Cost                            274.40         39.60        314.00
Total Financing Required                       274.40         39.60        314.00
Project Cost by Category                       Local         Foreign       Total
US$ million    US$ million  US$ million
Institutional Development sub-projects         265.50         39.00        304.50
Goods*                                          0.77          0.08          0.85
Books and learning resources*                   0.11          0.05          0.16
Consultant services*                            1.10          0.12           1.22
Training and workshops*                         1.05          0.35           1.40
Recurrent costs: Incremental Salaries*          2.50           0.00         2.50
Recurrent costs: Incremental operating costs*   3.37          0.00          3.37
Total Project Cost                             274.40         39.60        314.00
Total Financing Required                       274.40         39.60        314.00
* For Component II only
The estimate for Component-i: Institutional Development Sub-projects, which accounts for about 97% of
the total cost, is based on the following assumptions made by the Government of India in the design of
the first phase of the Program:
1. Institutes will be selected on a competitive basis based on their own vision and plans, which may
vary significantly from others.
2. The Program would fund about 20 lead institutions and about 60-80 network institutions, including
some polytechnics.
3. The funding for each lead institution could be of the order of Rs. 500 million (about US$10 million).
On the average, a network institution could receive about Rs. 100 million (about US$2 million). The
polytechnics could expect about Rs. 50 million each.
- 54 -



4. As a broad guideline, the institutions are expected to spend about 10% (maximum) on works, 45-60%
on goods (equipment, books, learning resources, furniture, vehicles), 15-25% on services (training,
fellowships, consultacies, workshops/seminars), and up to 15% on salaries of additional staff,
operations and maintenance, consummables, travel, etc. (Different percentages and ceilings are
suggested for Lead institutions and Network institutions in the Program Working Document for
States and Institutions.)
The relatively small fund for Component 2 is supplemented by the GOI's and participating States' own
funding for strengthening system management capacity.
- 55 -



Annex 4 Economic Analysis
INDIA: Technical/Engineering Education Quality Improvement Project
1.     Background
India's objective of promoting economic growth by competing in global markets requires well-trained,
technologically competent personnel who can adapt to rapid changes in technology and who can
contribute to technological improvements and augment productivity growth. As discussed below, the
non-availability of capacity to train high quality professionals is the critical constraint in engineering
education in India.
The objective of this Program is to support the production of high quality engineering professionals
through integrated reforms in the engineering education system. The Program can be considered a
success if the engineering education subsector efficiently produces graduates who will be in greater
demand in a competitive economy functioning in global markets.
This annex examines: (a) the mnarket for engineering skills; (b) the rationale for public investment; and
(c) cost-benefit analysis of the Program.
2.     The Market for Engineering Skills
The Supply of Engineering Skills and the Market for Engineering Education
The formal engineering education system currently embraces 1,059 degree level institutions with an
approved annual intake of 294,075 at the undergraduate level. Capacity expansion - both in aggregate
and by discipline - is regulated by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) which grants
approval for institutes and courses.
The public sector (comprising about 180 Central and state government institutions) currently provides
only 17 percent of total enrollment at the undergraduate level; most of the expansion in capacity in the
nineties has oceurred in the private sector. A few private institutions receive government aid (for
teachers salaries) but the majority are unaided. There is a clear differentiation in the quality of education
provided by engineering institutes, leading to a situation where the total supply is divided into distinct
segments. At least three tiers of the system can be distinguished. At the apex are the Indian Institutes of
Technology and a few other reputed institutes, run by the Central government; in the second tier are the
17 Regional Engineering Colleges (RECs-funded jointly by the Central and State governments), and
about 30 well-established government and private aided colleges; and the third tier consists of the
majority of private colleges (mostly unaided) of varying quality. Ten of the RECs have now been
converted into National Institutes of Technology with "deemed university" status and with full Central
funding. The public sector institutes are distributed relatively evenly across different states while the
private sector is concentrated in the southern and western regions of the country.
Student demand for engineering education is also differentiated by quality. Students prefer high quality
education and, in the absence of restrictions on fees, they would be willing to pay more for higher quality
than for lower quality education. However, the high quality seats are in limited supply. They are also
almost entirely in publicly funded institutions and regulations on fees ensure that these have the lowest
fees. These features of the market result in considerable excess demand for high quality engineering
education which is cleared by a screening mechanism consisting of entrance examinations and an
elaborate system of quotas. The admission process and guidelines for the fee structure are laid down in a
- 56 -



Supreme Court judgement that is applicable to all states and all types of institutions (the actual fee level,
however, is fixed by individual state governments and varies across states). Students are ranked by their
performance on the Common Entrance Examination conducted by each state and are allowed to choose
the college and discipline by order of merit. All seats in publicly funded colleges have low fees while 50
percent of the seats in private colleges are also offered at low fees (called "free seats"); of the remaining
"payment" seats, 40-45 percent are charged much higher fees and 5-10 percent is reserved for
Non-Resident Indians who pay dollar-denominated fees. Reservations based on caste and community are
applicable in government funded colleges and follow Central/state government guidelines.
The demand for engineering education depends in part on the demand for skills (discussed in the next
section), although social factors play an important role in India in ascribing higher status to engineers
than to general higher education graduates. Both labor market demand and social factors ensure that
demand for engineering education is not constrained but there are constraints on the supply of high
quality engineering education which arise due to the following factors:
*   Increase in high-quality capacity in public sector institutes is constrained by budgetary factors. In
1998-99, state governments funded about 58 percent of total costs (current and annualized capital
costs) with the Central government funding the remainder. Central government expenditures on
technical education grew at about 6 percent per annum in real termns in the nineties, but the real
growth in state government spending is likely to have been much lower due to the fiscal crisis in
many states. Total public spending on technical education is about one-tenth of one percent of
GDP at current market prices and is low relative to that in advanced countries (Srivastava and
Rao, 2002). Much of the real increase in expenditures during the nineties has been on account of
growth in salaries, with limited amounts being spent on quality improvement.
*   The private sector's contribution to high quality engineering education is still limited, although it
has contributed significantly to overall capacity expansion. The reasons are many. First, lack of
access to capital markets and high interest rates on borrowed funds prevent mobilization of
capital on the required scale. Many institutions did not fund libraries, laboratories and
Information Technology adequately. Second, regulations on fees, other sources of revenue and
costs make it difficult for private colleges to function. College fee revenues are determined by
various quotas and the differential pricing of seats that are determined at the state level in line
with Supreme Court guidelines and applicable to all colleges in the state. The normative
recurrent costs are determined by AICTE guidelines (staff-student ratios, salary levels of staff)
and are uniform across states. The fee structure determined by each state is expected to take into
account the normative recurrent cost but, in practice, there is wide variation across states in the
fees charged for "free" and "payment" seats. If some of the high-priced seats are not filled,
colleges find it difficult to break-even. Colleges often resort to cost-reduction measures such as
paying salaries below AICTE norms, hiring faculty with lower qualifications on short-term
contracts and not providing for faculty training or depreciation (Dhananjaya, 2002). Actual
recurrent costs are reduced below the norms at the expense of quality and hence many private
unaided colleges provide low quality education, although students are charged the same fees as
in high quality colleges.
*   Both public and private institutes are unable to adapt quickly to the changing needs of the
economy and the labor market. The process of introducing new courses, changing curricula and
evaluation methods is cumbersome with multiple controls and sanctioning authorities at both
state and Central levels.
Constraints on the supply of higher quality engineering education also affects equity. Students choose
their college/discipline by order of merit on their performance in the CET and equity considerations are
addressed by (a) fixing quotas for students from Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe (SC/ST) and
- 57 -



backward classes background in the publicly-funded colleges and grouping students within each of these
categories by order of merit (this means that entry level requirements can be lower for these groups as
compared to other groups) and (b) fixing lower fees for seats in publicly-funded colleges and in 50
percent of seats in the private unaided colleges. In effect, these policies mean that the best students
choose the best colleges (generally the publicly funded colleges) and pay lower fees. If performance in
the entrance examination is correlated with socio-economic status, as suggested by the enormous private
expenditure on pre-examination coaching, richer students are likely to gain entry into the high-quality,
publicly-funded colleges and hence access public subsidies or the "free seats" in private colleges. Those
who perform less well in the CET will tend to be in the higher priced seats in private colleges; if these
students are also from relatively poorer backgrounds, this will mean that the poorer students not only do
not gain access to public subsidies but they also cross-subsidize the richer students. The price differential
between the "free seat" and the "payment seat" is quite substantial, indicating a high level of
cross-subsidization. The quotas for SC/ST and other backward classes alleviate the inequitable
distribution of public subsidies to some extent provided these students are from poorer backgrounds as
compared to the "non-reserved" category of students (which is likely to be the case). There is no
empirical evidence, however, on the equity impact of the present fee/quota structure.
The existing fee-quota structure is complex and its impact on efficiency and equity is difficult to gauge.
However, expanding the total supply of high quality education will enable more students from poorer or
deprived social backgrounds to study in high quality colleges, even within the existing fee-quota policy
framework.
Postgraduate engineering education is provided only in the IITs, the RECs/NITs, some state government
and University colleges and a few private colleges. There are 21,460 seats available in 242 institutions.
Even this capacity is underutilized as demand is influenced by the relatively low anticipated financial
returns to teaching and research (which employs postgraduates) and high opportunity costs. The
admissions to postgraduate (PG) programs is also primarily limited due to a national level Graduate
Apptitude Test for Engineering (GATE). Only students qualifying through GATE are eligible for
admission to PG programs with government scholarships. Data collected from a sample of institutions in
Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh indicates that actual intake is between 40-75 percent of the
sanctioned intake in various disciplines.
Demandfor Technological/Engineering Skills and Demand-Supply Mismatches
Since liberalization in the early 1 990s, the private sector demand for engineers and technicians has been
growing strongly. Data from the National Technical Manpower Information System (NTMIS) database
covering more than 2000 industrial establishments show that employment of engineers and technicians in
the private sector grew at an annual rate of 5.5 percent during the period from 1991 to 1995.
Liberalization has also led to closures/cutbacks in the public sector - employment of engineers and
technicians decreased by an annual rate of 2.3 percent in this sector during the same time period.
Unfortunately, there has been limited rigorous analysis examining the demand for technical and
engineering skills in India. However, what data exist tend to demonstrate the mismatch between demand
and supply.
Based on projections of needs of various technical and engineering skills, the Institute of Applied
Manpower Research estimated skill shortages/surpluses for various disciplines in 2002, using 1995
NTMIS data as the base year. While these numbers are manpower projections and do not take into
account unforeseen changes in demand and external environment, they are useful for illustrative
purposes. These projections show significant shortages in many disciplines (e.g., computer engineering)
- 58 -



and surpluses in others (e.g., mechanical engineering) and suggest that institutions are slow in responding
to changing market needs, owing to the inflexibility in the system.
The mismatch of demand and supply is better demonstrated by a tracer study of 8,642 graduates and
6,541 diploma holders carried out by the Nodal Center for Karnataka State (NTMIS) in 1997. According
to this study, over 20% of degree holders in several disciplines had to wait for three years prior to gaining
employment. In the case of diploma holders, graduates of some disciplines could not find employment
even after three years (Table 4.1). These results indicate a need for regular assessment and adjustment of
programs to suit the market demands.
Table 4.1: Employment Rates after Graduation
Discipline                 Degree                               Diploma
0-1 Years   1-2 Years   2-3 Years    0-1 Years    1-2 Years    2-3 Years
Architecture     97          100          100         100          100          100
Automobile      39           72          100          54           84           100
Chemical       44           80           100          30          54           78
Civil         51          81           100          40           73          100
Electrical      79          100          100          33          60           100
Electronics     67          100          100          49           79           93
Industrial      58          88           100         NA           NA           NA
Mechanical      58           80          100          43           64           85
A survey of select industrial establishments was also conducted as part of the IAMR study with a view to
identifying the relevance of existing courses to employers. This survey showed that the relevance of
skills possessed by degree holders is rated reasonably well. However, employers feel that most diploma
holders do not possess market oriented skills. These results corroborate the data presented in Table 4.1.
Similarly, FICCI conducted a survey of 55 enterprises in late 2001 to get an assessment of the quality and
relevance of higher/technical education from the industry's perspective. Close to 60% of the respondents
felt that higher education institutions were not geared up to meet the challenges of the global economy.
Over 43% of the respondents felt that academic institutions were not aligned to the needs of industry,
40% felt there were significant lacunae in curriculum development, and 30% of the respondents felt that
the institutions lacked vision and awareness of global developments (Figure 4.1).
A majority of the respondents (86.7%) felt that institutions should foster greater exposure to industrial
practices and over 40% also felt that higher education needed to include a closer industry-institute
interface. They stressed the importance of a collaborative approach between academia and industry as an
important factor in ensuring better matches between what industry wants and what the academic
institutions produce.
This empirical evidence has been reinforced in discussions with a small group of employers and
employer federations (FICCI, CII, and employers met in Indore) organized as part of project preparation.
The lack of appropriate technical skills (and corresponding "soft" skills - e.g., teamwork, innovativeness)
ranks high on the list of bottlenecks that Indian firms face as they try to expand output and increase
productivity through technological upgradatation. Employers feel that graduates of the engineering and
polytechnic institutions lack practical knowledge and have to undergo significant on-the-job training in
order to bring their skill levels to match the needs of the industry. According to them, in order for the
system to be more responsive, it is crucial that participation of employers at the industry level be
- 59 -



enhanced, and students and teachers be given some practical experience in industry. Most importantly, it
is felt that the reforms should be introduced in the regulatory regime governing the operation of
institutions, which currently inhibits any kind of autonomy, innovation and responsiveness to demand.
0   10  20  30  40  50  60  70  80  90 100
Inadequate vision         30
Lack of global awamness       30
Not aligned to grund malities           43.
Poor quality of faculty  20
Lacunas in course I curriculum development     40
Poor infastructu.  47
Inadequate acmess to educatIon  10
Other factors 2  7
Figure 4.1: Industry Perception of Higher Education
While a thorough analysis of labor demand and demand-supply mismatches is not available, the evidence
presented above supports the assertion of a poorly performing and non-responsive technical education
sector.
3.     The Rationale For Public Investment and Justification for Program Components
There are four reasons for public intervention in engineering education and all four are relevant in the
Indian context:
*   Market failure: this is reflected in the supply-side constraints discussed earlier, which prevents
the private sector from expanding the supply of high quality engineering education.
*   Contribution to growth: technical/engineering education contributes to innovations in productive
technologies, augments productivity and increases the range and variety of products. The
existence of significant positive externalities of tertiary education has been suggested by the
international literature on "sources of growth" although there is no empirical evidence relating to
India. In particular, externalities associated with emerging technologies, postgraduate education
and research and development suggest a rationale for public investment in these areas.
*   Equity: national household survey data show that relatively few students from low income
households access engineering education. Given that engineering (or most higher education)
graduates get on a higher income growth path as compared to the less-educated or those with
general higher education, inequity in access will accentuate income inequalities over time. Due
to the prevailing fee/quota system, most of the subsidies for engineering education may not be
currently directed towards the poorer students.
- 60 -



*   Information asymmetry: the government has a crucial role to play in the collection, analysis and
dissemination of information on (i) skill needs in the economy; and (ii) the type and quality of
education provided in different institutions. The first will make the engineering education
system more responsive to the labor market and student demand and the second will enable
students to make more efficient decisions regarding the courses that are appropriate for them.
Both these types of information are currently not available on a large scale in India.
In addition, there is excessive regulation of the engineering education system with both government and
private colleges operating under multiple controls that make it difficult for them to be responsive to the
changing labor market and economic environment.
The proposed Program has two components: (i) competitive grants program under which support would
be provided to selected public and private institutions for development; and (ii) system capacity
development. The first component addresses supply-side constraints by improving the quality of public
and private institutions (excluding the top level institutions like the IHTs), through investments in lead
institutions and networked partners, thereby increasing the overall supply of high quality places in
engineering education. Program expenditures will be mainly devoted to activities to improve quality,
student learning and research activities (including improvements in instructional techniques and
instructional resources; modernized curricula and evaluation methods). The competitive grant mechanism
also aims to direct public expenditures towards those areas with significant externalities. The selection
criteria favor those institutions that encourage postgraduate education and/or introduce new courses in
emerging technologies. Granting of academic, financial and administrative autonomy to institutions is a
condition for eligibility to participate in the competition and this is expected to improve market
orientation and flexibility, as well as augment private financing and thereby enable institutions to sustain
quality improvements after the end of the project. The introduction of the block grant scheme in publicly
funded institutions is expected to improve the efficiency of resource allocation within institutions.
The second component will contribute to system efficiencies by building the capacity of managers,
research studies in best practice. It will also contribute in alleviating information asymmetries, and
supporting quality assurance mechanisms.
The proposed Program does not address issues relating to efficiency and equity arising from the current
fee/quota structure, which are governed by national case law and not amenable to change at this juncture,
or from the current pattern of providing subsidies to institutions. However, it is anticipated that many of
these issues will be analyzed further as part of the research program envisaged under the Program and
policies to improve equity and efficiency. This project is envisaged as the first in a series of projects and
further reforms will be considered in subsequent phases.
4.     Cost-Benefit Analysis of The Competitive Grant Component
The economic benefits from the Program can be classified into three categories. First, the efficiency of
public spending is expected to improve as the financing of publicly funded institutions shifts from a
system of gap-filling grants to block grants. Second, due to changes in the financing mechanism, private
financing is expected to increase. Third, labor market outcomes improve with increases in earnings,
employment rates and speed of employment.
Gains from improvements in the efficiency of public spending are difficult to quantify. It is proposed to
shift from a system of gap filling grants for financing publicly funded institutes to a system of block
grants. The state governments may make a matching contribution to the corpus/endowment fund
equivalent to the savings made by the institutes. Special grants would be made to cover instances of pay
-61 -



revision, devaluation of the Indian rupee, etc., which are beyond the control of institutes. The main
incentives come from the government's matching grant which is meant to encourage institutes to
augment their own resources and economize on their expenditures by redistributing existing faculty and
other staff within a fixed total of staff positions. Efficiency in resource use will be improved because
institutes will not need prior approvals for purchases of equipment for quality improvement and other
internal adjustments, which normally take a lot of time.
A block grant scheme was introduced in IlTs from 1993-94 with good results. This has been reviewed
recently by an Expert Committee to make it more effective. The Committee has recomnmended major
improvements in the funding pattern. It is suggested that the block grant be based on number of students
at different level (UG, PG, research, part-time), generic research output and other consideration such as
campus size, location, etc. The PIP includes recommendations of the Committee to help the states design
their block- grant funding pattern. Discussions on adaption and refinement of the block grant system will
take place during the early phases of Program implementation.
Rate of return analysis
An internal rate of return has been calculated using the costs of the project and quantifiable benefits.
Improvements in internal efficiency are proxied by higher pass out rates and in external efficiency by the
higher probability of employment, higher earnings and reductions in search time for employment, for the
three groups of students (post-graduate, degree and diploma level) in the two types of institutions (lead
and network).
Benefits that are not quantifiable include externalities, gains in the efficiency of public spending
resulting from improved practices and systems (component H of the project). Additional resource
generation from the private sector, as a result of the shift to the block grant system, through continuing
education programs and consultancy services are other benefits which have not been included in the rate
of return analysis. Pre-project studies from a sample of institutions in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and
Uttar Pradesh suggest that the revenue potential from continuing education programs and consultancy
services could finance up to 15 percent of normative recurrent expenditures. In order to exploit these
revenue sources, institutions need to set up appropriate administrative mechanisms and frame rules for
undertaking continuing education and consultancy services; invest in required infrastructure; train
personnel in market analysis, marketing, tendering, tax laws, contracting and project preparation.
Institutional proposals will provide details of these to enable selectors to assess the realism of projected
revenue increases. Due to the difficulties in assessing the actual revenues that are likely to be generated,
these benefits have not been included in the rate of return analysis. Other benefits that accrue from the
program and have not been quantified include improved testing charges through use of sophisticated
equipment provided in the project, sale of courseware and learning materials. There are also some
indirect benefits that accrue from the project including faculty competence upgradation and increasing
innovative and creative ability of students. Improved image of institutions fostered through management
reforms, better infrastructure, better trained teachers, relevant curricula, and better learning practices
would also bring indirect benefits to the participating institutions and the community. As stated above,
these benefits are also difficult to quantify and have not been included in the quantitative analysis.
The cost-benefit model has been made as fine a description of economic reality as possible with the
available data. The main problem in cost benefit analysis is the use of ex ante estimations for future
projections. The model aims to show the rate of return to the project under credible scenarios.
Furthermore, the results of the cost-benefit analysis under different risk scenarios - both, positive and
negative deviations from the base assumptions about the efficiency of engineering education system and
the relevance of this education to the labor market - are also reported.
- 62 -



Assumptions
The numbers of potential beneficiaries are based on the data provided by the government. These are the
expected numbers of students in lead and network institutions who are expected to benefit from the
Program. The Program benefits are expected to kick in gradually - hence, while the lead and network
institutions will be selected within the first 12 months of the program, for the purpose of this analysis, it
is assumed that only about 20% of beneficiaries will be directly affected in the first year, 40% in the
second year, 60% in the third year, and all students in participating institutions will benefit in the last two
years (Table 4.2).
Table 4.2: Numbers of Potential Beneficiaries'
Students               Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5
Lead institution
Post Graduate            259        571         941         1725        1896
Graduate                4268        8620       13191       22644        23535
Polytechnic             1206        2532        3989        6979        7327
Network institute
Post Graduate           1037        2283       3763         6900        7584
Graduate                17072      34482       52765       90576        94140
Polytechnic             4824       10128       15958       27916        29308
('The difference in number of potential beneficiaries between Year 4 and Year 5 is due to an assumed
growth in enrollments in these in institutions.)
Data from engineering institutions and polytechnics on graduation rates, employment rates, wages and
search time to get a job are not easily available. Hence, the data used in this analysis are based on a
survey of a sample of engineering degree and diploma institutions (Table 4.3). Assuming these as
representative, they have been used as a base case scenario on which to build the analysis.
Table 4.3: Current Graduation, Employment, Wages and Search Times'
Graduation    Probability of Annual Starting  Average Search
Rates (%)    Employment     Wages (Rs.)    Time (Months)
Lead...
Post Graduate          90            85           144000
Graduate               90            80           120000            11
Polytechnic            80            75           72000
Network...
Post Graduate          85            80           120000
Graduate               85            80           96000             15
Polytechnic            70            65           60000
( These numbers have been rounded off.)
- 63 -



It is assumed that the project leads to an improvement in these indicators for graduates of lead and
network institutions (in comparison to individuals from institutions that have not been directly assisted
by the project). The assumption is that as a result of Program interventions, over the life of the project,
these indicators will move closer towards rates achieved in the more well performing institutions (e.g.,
IITs and the better performing REC's). Hence, for example, it is assumed that the employment
probabilities of graduates in lead institutions will improve by roughly one percent per year, while for
graduates in network institutions will improve by about 0.3% per annum relative to individuals in similar
institutions that have not been assisted by the project (Table 4.4).
These assumptions may be somewhat arbitrary and the IRR is likely to be sensitive to changes in
parameters. Hence, uncertainty has been incorporated into the model through assuming a distributional
form for these parameters - with standard errors estimated from the sample of data on institutions. Given
that comprehensive data on these parameters is not available, it has been assumed that they fit a nornal
distribution (standard errors are displayed in parentheses in Table 4.4 below).
Table 4.4: Annual Increases in Graduation, Employment, Wages and Reduction in
Search Times Due to Project (standard errors in parentheses)
Graduation   Probability of Annual Starting  Average Search
Rates (%)    Employment     Wages (Rs.)   Time (Months)
Lead...
Post Graduate        1.0 (0.5)     1.0 (0.5)    3600 (600)
Graduate             1.0 (0.5)     1.0 (0.5)    2400 (450)      0.2 (0.05)
Polytechnic         0.8 (0.4)      0.8 (0.4)    1800 (360)
Network...
Post Graduate       0.3 (0.2)      0.3 (0.2)    2400 (450)
Graduate            0.3 (0.2)      0.3 (0.2)    1800 (360)      0.1 (0.03)
Polytechnic         0.2 (0.1)      0.2 (0.1)    1200 (240)
Results of the analysis
Based on the assumptions specified above, and total project costs of $314 million, the model predicts an
Internal Rate of Return for the project of 14%*. As specified above, uncertainty has also been
incorporated into various parameters in the model to estimate their impact on the rate of return. Using
Monte Carlo simulation techniques, this allows one to compute the variability of the rates of return under
different parameter assumptions. The chart below (Figure 4.2) provides the result of this analysis based
on 10,000 simulations. It predicts a rate of return is centered around 14% and predicts that the 90%
confidence interval of the IRR lies between 6% and 21%.
I *The current capacity utilization at the post-graduate level is around 50%. While the above analysis is based on full
capacity utilization, if we assume that the capacity utilization at this level will only be at around 60% during the
project, the overall rate of return will be around 12%}.
- 64 -



Forecast: IRR
160
140-
120                                    wl"
a  80 -
20
~ 0
20                   A^                                       ,
3%             8%            13%            18%            23%
Figure 4.2: Internal Rates of Return
Alternatively, this implies that there is a 14% likelihood that the rate of return for the project will be less
than 10%.
Risk scenarios
The simulations above were based on a "base" case scenario. The rates of return have also been
estimated using different scenarios - a "high" case scenario and a "low" case scenario. Under the "low"
scenario -rates of return have been estimated assuming the system does not achieve the desired level of
internal efficiency (e.g., pass rates improve marginally) or the desired level of external efficiency (e.g.,
improvements in employment rates and productivity are marginal). Alternatively, under the "high"
scenario, significant gains in the internal or external efficiency are assumed - pass rates, probability of
finding employment and wages are at levels higher than in the base case, owing to factors.such as high
quality of education provided and a robust demand for engineering labor. The internal rates of return
under these different scenarios are shown below (Table 4.5):
Table 4.5: IRR under Different Scenarios of Internal and External Efficiency
Scenario                          Low              Base Case             High
Annual Increases in'
Graduation Rates (%)              0.3                 1.0                 1.5
Employment Probability (%)        0.3                 1.0                1.5
Wages (Rs.)                      1200                2400               3600
Rate of Return ()                  3                  16                  23
( Owing to space constraints we have only listed the data on annual increases under the three scenarios
only for graduates in lead institutions. The actual computations are made based on similar assumptions
made for post-graduates, graduates and polytechnic students for both lead and network institutions.)
In a case where the project significantly under-performs - low impact in terms of increasing pass rates
and low impact in increasing the relevance of the education provided to labor market demand then the
IRR will be low - 3%. However, if the project over-performs, the IRR could be as high as 23%.
- 65 -



Rates of return have also been computed under scenarios that the total number of beneficiaries are only a
fraction of the potential beneficiaries of the project shown in Table 4.2 - i.e., not all students in lead and
network institutions derive benefits from the project. It is apparent that the rates of return are sensitive
not only to shifts in graduation rate, employment and wages, but also to the number of project
beneficiaries (Table 4.6). For example, if only 50% of potential beneficiaries (as defined in Table 4.2)
from both lead and network institutions derive benefits from the project, the rate of return will be 3%.
Table 4.6: Rates of Return under Different Scenarios of Number of Beneficiaries
Lead Institutions (No.  Network Institutions  Rates of Retum (%)
of beneficiaries)     (No. of beneficiaries)
0.5                  0.5                 3.0
1.0                  0.5                 8.0
0.5                  1.0                 10.5
1.0                  1.0                 14.0
('The number of beneficiaries are defined as a % of potential beneficiaries
as defined in Table 4.2.)
The analysis shows that, under a "base case" scenario, the IRR will be around 14%. Simulations done
incorporating uncertainty in the model, conclude that the IRR will lie between 6% and 21% (a 90%
confidence interval).
Rates of return under several alternative risk scenarios have also been computed. The results show that
the rates of return are sensitive to changes in assumptions on number of beneficiaries, graduation rates,
employment probability and wages.
It will be necessary to monitor these variables during the life of the project, and especially to conduct a
quasi-experimental impact evaluation to evaluate the labor market benefits for project participants in
comparison to non-participants. Monitoring indicators are discussed in more detail below.
5.     Criteria for Success and Monitoring Indicators
To be able to evaluate whether the project is achieving its intended objectives, the project will monitor
some key performance indicators. The table below lists the main indicators that will be monitored during
the program at both the institutional and system-wide level, the instruments and techniques to be used to
monitor these indicators and the capacity requirements in order to be able to do this. In many cases,
capacity already exists (either at the institutional or system-wide level) to monitor these indicators.
However, the project is going to assist in developing capacity to monitor other indicators (Table 4.7).
Table 4.7: Performance Indicators
Indicators                            Measurement            Capacity needs and Level of
Instruments/Techniques      Collection of Information
Institutional Level.
% employed within 6 months of    Follow-up surveys of     Capacity needs to be developed to
graduation and wages obtained.  students 6 months after   conduct follow-up surveys and
graduation                analyze information
Unit cost in different disciplines (per  Financial records of  Capacity must be built in institutions
student and per graduate).      institutions and number of  to compute costs based on a
students and graduates    standard format.
% of revenue raised through fees and  Financial records of  Capacity currently exists to collect
- 66 -



self-generated sources and % of  Institutions             this information.
resources going to different uses
(research activities, equipment,
maintenance, salaries, etc.)
% pass out rate of graduates and % of Academic records of  Capacity currently exists to collect
graduates with 1st division.    institutions.             this information.
Institutional  and  System-wide
Level.....
Satisfaction of employers with the  Annual establishment  Capacity will need to be developed
quality of output coming out of the  surveys              at institutions to conduct and analyze
system.                                                    local labor market surveys. Such
capacity exists at the national level.
Dissemination of information to  Dissemination of          Information (e.g., on types of
students and employers on type and  information through    courses, graduation rates,
quality of education provided at  websites/print media.    employment rates, etc.) will need to
different institutions.                                    be collated and published.
Number and value of joint research,  Financial and administrative  Information can be collected at
design and development projects,  information              institutional level and collated
consultancies, training programs.                         system-wide. Capacity exists for this
Professional outputs (publications,  Administrative information  Information can be collected at
products, designs, patents, etc.) from                    institutional level and collated
participating institutions.                               system-wide. Capacity exists for this
System-wide Level..
Comparison of labor market       Quasi-experimental impact  Capacity needs to be developed to
outcomes of graduates in relation to  evaluations          design and conduct
control group (are graduates of                            quasi-experimental impact
institutions assisted through program                      evaluations
performing better relative to a
comparable control group) and is the
intervention cost-effective?
Total state and GOI resources going  GOI financial records  Capacity exists to collect this
to the lead and network institutions.                     information.
This should be available from
state+GOI financial data.
Number of private providers being  GOI data                Capacity exists to collect this
supported.                                                 infornation.
Number of accredited institutions and NBA data             Capacity exists to collect this
programs (both public and private).                        information.
References
Srivastava, D.K. & B. Rao. Analyzing the Market for Engineering Education in India. (study
conducted for World Bank and GOI). 2002.
Dhananjaya, M.H.& A.T. Bhashyam. Unit Costs and Sources of Financingfor Engineering Colleges.
(study conducted for World Bank and GOI). 2002.
World Bank. India: Scientific and Technical Manpower Development in India (Report No. 20416).
2000.
- 67 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
INDIA: Technical/Engineering Education Quality Improvement Project
Years Ending
2003-2007
IMPLEME     NTATIONPERIOD-.
| Year 1  | Year 2   | Year 3   | Year 4  | Year 5   | Year 6 .   Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          22.7       75.0       92.5      85.4       32.3       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.6        1.2       1.2        1.5       1.6        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         23.3       76.2       93.7      86.9       33.9       0.0       0.0
Total Financing             23.3       76.2       93.7      86.9       33.9       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  18.6       61.0      74.8       69.4      26.3       0.0        0.0
Govemment                  4.7       15.2       18.9      17.5       7.6       0.0        0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-flnanciers              0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries      0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Other                        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    23.3       76.2       93.7       86.9      33.9       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
1. The Program's first phase would be completed in about 5 years from effectiveness.
2. The selection of institutions in the first cycle would be completed and funds allocated to them soon after
effectiveness.
3. The balance of the funds under competitive funding would be allocated to institutitions selected in the
second or third cycle by the second year of the first phase of the Program.
4. Most of the procurement of goods would occur in the second and third year of the first phase of the
Program.
5. Expenditure on services (training, consultancy, workshops, seminars, etc.) would occur through the
entire first phase period. Appointment of additional staff would be phased as per needs of institutions.
6. Flow of funds would occur without delays on a quarterly basis.
- 68 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
INDIA: Technical/Engineering Education Quality Improvement Project
Procurement
The components of the proposed Program and their procurement methods are summarized in Table A and
the procurement methods and prior review thresholds are presented in Table B
A. Program Description and Procurement Arrangements
The Program spread over 10-12 years is expected to be implemented in 3 phases, each of about 5-year
duration. It has 2 components with distinct modes of funding-Institutional Development (US$304.5
million in the Phase I) and System Management Capacity Improvement (US$9.5 million). Phase-I will
constitute about 30% of the total Program funding and cover about 80-100 institutions.
A.1    Component-1: Institutional Development through Competitive Funding (US$304.5 million)
This component covers 3 major groups of activities (related to academic excellence, networking of
institutions and services to community and economy). It would be funded on a competitive basis.
Well-performing eligible engineering education institutions from eligible states would be selected in
clusters (lead institution along with network institutions), based on their project (Institutional
Development Subproject) proposals (in the range of US$1-3 million each for networked institutions to
US$7-10 million each for lead institutions), through an open competition. Selection of states would be
carried out for each phase, and selection of their institutions would be carried out in 2-3 cycles during
each phase, allowing institutions to compete and join the Program.
Lead/Network Institutions would be free to design their own projects for achieving their self-determined
goals for development, and would thus be free to propose resource requirements matching the proposed
project activities. A procurement plan related to this component is not feasible as educational institutions
to be included under this component would be selected over an extended period of time, based on the
merits of their individual and widely differing development proposals; procurement plans of these
institutions would however be detailed in their respective development proposals.
The procurement arrangements to be undertaken will be the responsibility of institutions for their
respective activities proposed under the component, either directly for small value contracts or through
the SPFUs/NPIU for goods and equipment to be procured through NCB/ICB procedures. The institutions
have the capacity to carry out small civil works at their level and through NCB using the services of
PWD/procurement consultants.
Considering the nature of activities, this component would be financed as Institutional Development
Sub-projects. The details of procurement for this component would be as under:
A.l.1 Civil Works: The Program envisages 3 types of civil works activities: (a) refurbishment of existing
infrastructure;.(b) construction of buildings on existing sites related to the academic excellence
sub-component, which would include: (i) laboratories and workshops for strengthening teaching and
training facilities for the existing programs, and (ii) laboratories, workshops, classrooms, etc., related to
new programs in emerging technology areas; and (c) improvement of facilities.
The majority of civil works (approximately 250 contracts) are expected to be less than US$50,000
- 69 -



equivalent value, and these will be executed soliciting three quotations or Unit/Piece Rate System or
Force Account procedure as a last resort. Institutions will undertake these works at their level. A few of
the civil works are expected to be in the range of US$50,000 to US$300,000 equivalent value. These
would be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedure for which institutions will
appoint consulting firms as procurement agents, if required. However centage charges, if any, for
services rendered by any State or Central PWD/State Department for implementation of construction will
not be financed under the Program.
A.1.2 Goods: This procurement category includes equipment, vehicles, furniture; and books, software,
learning resources and educational materials.
Procurement of equipment and furniture (for laboratories, workshops, libraries, computer centers,
community programs, networking, offices, and campus facilities) and vehicles (for activities related to
service to community and economy) would be phased on an annual basis in accordance with the
requirement of institutional project activities, and where required, will be closely sequenced by each
institution with the civil works program. Because of the likely wide variation in the type of goods
required by individual institutions that would get selected over an extended period of time during Phase-I
of the Program, there would be little scope for bulking to form ICB packages costing more than
US$300,000 equivalent value. Substantial equipment procurement is expected to be undertaken through
NCB (in packages ranging from US$50,000 to US$300,000 in equivalent value) for strengthening and
modernizing laboratories, workshops, libraries and computer centers. Institutions would also have large
requirements for both high-tech and proprietary equipment for postgraduate and research programs, and
these are expected to be procured through Direct Contracting (in packages costing US$20,000 or less in
equivalent value) and International Shopping (in packages costing less than US$50,000 in equivalent
value). Equipment of routine nature, furniture and vehicles would be procured through National
Shopping (in packages costing less than US$50,000 in equivalent value). There would be approximately
5000 contracts with an average value of
US$40,000, 500 contracts with an average value of US$100,000 and 20 contracts above US$300,000.
It is envisaged that of the total expected expenditure on goods and equipment procurement, 2% may be
through ICB, 25% through NCB and the remaining 73% through Other Methods (National and
International Shopping and Direct Contracting).
Because of the low volumes of different books, proprietary software, learning resources and educational
materials to be procured under a very wide variety of programs, preparation of attractive packages to
solicit quotations/bids would not be possible; direct contracting with the authorized dealers/suppliers
would be the most appropriate method for procurement with each contract not exceeding US$50,000
equivalent value. In addition, small items costing below US$500 each would also be procured under
Direct Contracting up to an aggregate amount of US$ 1.0 million.
A.1.3 Technical Assistance, Studies, Training and Workshops: The Program will fund services required
for implementation of such activities as training and fellowship programs, workshops and seminars, etc.
Services of consultants, both individuals and firms (engaged as per Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers) for procurement of civil works (including
supervision wherever provided) and goods,-estimated to cost less than US$500,000 for consultant
contracts would be procured using Quality and Cost-based Selection with short list. For development of
academic aspects of Institutional Development Subprojects projects, consultants estimated to cost less
than US$200,000 equivalent per contract would be engaged on the basis of selection under a fixed budget
(paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines). For conducting policy research studies, and for
- 70 -



reviews of perfomance, reforms, quality and efficiency costing less than US$100, 000 equivalent per
contract would be awarded on Selection based on Consultant Qualifications (paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of
the Consultant Guidelines).
A.1.4 Incremental Operating Costs: These would cover salaries of agreed additional faculty and staff,
stipends/scholarships, expenses incurred on operation and maintenance (operation and maintenance of
equipment and vehicles, hiring cost of vehicles and offices, hiring of off-campus buildings for
community programs and programs for unorganized sector of the economy, maintenance of buildings,
travel expenses and office expenses) and consumables such as laboratory and workshop supplies,
telephone, stationary, electricity, water, etc. identified as solely for the benefit of the project. The total
miscellaneous cost would be limited to about 15% of the total for each institutional project.
A.2 Component-2: System Management Capacity Improvement (US$9.5 million)
This component would support, at the central and state levels, establishment of Program management
structures; conduct of policy and system research studies; conduct of performance, reforms, quality and
efficiency audits of institutions by SPFUs and NPIU; and training of education policy planners, managers
and administrators within India and abroad. States/UT and GOI will be responsible for their respective
procurement activities either directly or through consultants.
A.2.1 Civil Works: No civil works are proposed under this component.
A.2.2 Goods (US$1.01 million): The goods to be procured would include office and communication
equipment, fumiture, vehicles, books, and computer software. Because of the low volumes required by
individual SPFUs and NPIU, equipment, furniture and vehicles would be procured by each through
National Shopping including DGS&D Rate Contract in packages costing less than US$50,000 equivalent
value. There would be no NCB/ICB as all contracts (approximately 100) would be below US$50,000.
Books and proprietary software costing less than US$50,000 equivalent value per contract, required by
each SPFU and NPIU in low volumes, would be procured through Direct Contracting.
A.2.3 Technical Assistance, Studies, Training and Workshops (US$2.62 million): The Program will
fund services required for Program preparation, conduct of training workshops, organization of seminars,
conduct of research studies, and conduct of different types of audits (performance, reforms, quality and
efficiency), providing guidance in procurement, etc. Consultant services would be procured as per
Guidelinesfor Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers.
A.2.4 Incremental Operating Costs (US$5.87 million): These would be financed on a declining basis
and would cover salaries of agreed additional staff for the NPIU and SPFU, expenses incurred on
operation and maintenance (operation and maintenance of equipment and vehicles, hiring cost of vehicles
and offices, maintenance of buildings, travel expenses and office expenses) and consumables such as
telephone, stationary, electricity, water, etc.identified as solely for the benefit of the project.
B. Procurement Implementation Capacity
In as much as the institutions that would participate in the Program in Component-I cannot be identified
at this stage, it has not been possible to make a specific procurement assessment. However, the specified
questionnaire was circulated to a sample of 6 institutions (which represent by and large the profile of
institutions likely to get selected under the Program) to assess their procurement capacity.
- 71 -



Based on the responses to the questionnaire and in-depth discussion with these institutions, it was
concluded that the institutions have the capacity to procure small civil works themselves, and larger
works using the services of State PWDs or procurement consultants. This capacity can be used for
carrying out small works at institutional level with some training and guidance by the NPIU in Bank
procurement methods, and by hiring services of procurement consultants in accordance with Guidelines
for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers.
It was also assessed that the institutions have limited capacity for equipment procurement. Institutions are
not conversant with Bank's procurement procedures of NCB and ICB, and have largely been following
State government procedure of inviting open tenders in small value packages. Institutions at best would
be able to manage procurement in packages not exceeding US$50,000 in equivalent value essentially
using the National Shopping method. For NCB/ICB they would need hands on assistance from the
NPIU/SPFUs.
For the first year's ICB/NCB procurement the following arrangements will be made. The NPIU will
carry out ICB procurement for all institutions. In addition, NPIU would also carry out NCB procurement
for centrally funded institutions as required. The SPFUs would carry out NCB procurement for the
respective state sponsored institutions. The SPFUs could also carry out NCB procurement for the central
institutions located in the state if so desired by the latter. All the concerned staff would be formally
trained in procurement at ASCI, Hyderabad or NIFM, Faridabad and such other institutions as may be
identified later. The need for hiring a Procurement agency at the National level would be reviewed after
one year of the Program effectiveness.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Bank-financed works and goods will be procured using the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits of January 1995, revised January 1996, August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999. Services will be procured using the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers of January 1997, revised September 1997, January 1999 and May
2002. The procurement methods applicable to the various expenditure categories are summarized below.
For procurement under the Program, the Bank's standard bid documents (as modified for India specific
conditions) shall be used.
Contracts for civil works estimated to cost over US$50,000 equivalent will be carried out following
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. Each contract estimated to cost
equivalent to US$50,000 or less will be procured following procedures acceptable to the Bank: (a)
National Shopping; (b) Unit/Piece Rate System; or (c) through Force Account, as last resort.
Contract for the.purchase of goods valued more than US$50,000 but less than US$300,000 would be
awarded on the basis of NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Items or groups of items valued at
US$50,000 equivalent or less per contract may be procured on the basis of International and National
Shopping procedures. Proprietary equipment of US$20,000 or less per contract in the case of the
Instituional Development component; books, proprietary software, learning resources and educational
materials of value US$50,000 or less per contract; and other items or small groups of items valued at less
than US$500 equivalent per contract may all be procured through Direct Contracting.
For procurement of equipment, vehicles and furniture, DGS&D rate contracts will be treated as
"equivalent" to National Shopping.
Contracts for procurement of consumables, maintenance of equipment and vehicles under the
- 72 -



incremental operating costs category may be awarded through: (a) Direct Contracting; or (b) National
Shopping procedures.
All NCB contracts to be financed from the Credit under the Program would follow procedures
satisfactory to the Bank/Association, which are:
1. Only the model bidding documents for NCB agreed with the Government of India Task Force (as
amended from time to time) shall be used for bidding.
2. Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper, at
least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of the bids.
3. No special preference will be accorded to any bidder when competing with foreign bidders,
state-owned enterprises, small-scale enterprises or enterprises from any given state.
4. Except with the prior concurrence of the Bank/Association, there shall be no negotiation of price
with the bidders, even with the lowest evaluated bidder.
5. Except in cases of force majeure and/or situations beyond the control of the state, extension of
bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence of the Bank/Association: (a) for
the first request for extension if it is longer than eight weeks; and (b) for all subsequent requests
for extension irrespective of the period.
6. Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the prior concurrence of the Bank/Association. The
system of rejecting bids outside a pre-determined margin or "bracket" of prices shall not be used.
7. Rate contracts entered into by DGS&D will not be acceptable as a substitute for NCB
procedures. Such contracts will be acceptable for any procurement under National Shopping
procedures.
C.      Assessment of Borrowers' Readiness to Implement the Program
The GOI has completed the first stage of Program implementation by announcing the Program and
selecting 6 eligible States (Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar
Pradesh) for participation in Phase-1 of the Program. It has also developed the mechanism for selection
of institutions through open competition, and this process would be activated soon after negotiations.
About 80-100 institutions would be selected in 2-3 successive cycles within 12-14 months of Program
effectiveness. Selections will be based on project proposals prepared by institutions in a prescribed
format. This format specifically requires preparation of procurement plans, at least for the first year,
complete with lists and brief specifications and schedule of requirements. Institutions will thus be able to
start procurement by Direct Contracting and National Shopping soon after their selection. Procurement
by ICB/NCB/intemational Shopping for the first batch of selected institutions would commence in about
6 months from Program effectiveness by which time the Procurement cells in NPIU and SPFUs would be
in place.
D. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Procurement Planning
Procurement plans of institutions will be reflected in their project proposals. As institutions under
Component-1 cannot be identified prior to their actual selection, their procurement plans cannot be
known, and be subjected to any prior approval process. This being a highly competitive Program in
which institutions have to demonstrate their preparedness to implement all project-related activities in
accordance with the declared schedule, it can be safely assumed that all institutions would have prepared,
at the proposal stage itself, their procurement plans for timely completion of the related project activities.
- 73 -



Under Component - 2, States and NPIU have small annual requirements of computers, office and
communication equipment and furniture. These will be procured by National Shopping and Direct
Contracting. Though initial procurement planning has been carried out by NPIU and SPFUs, these plans
being of low value need not be subjected to the Bank approval process.
Prior Review
The first NCB civil works contract regardless of value from each institution, all civil work contracts
above US$300,000 equivalent value, all goods contracts above US$200,000 value and the first NCB
contract for goods from each SPFU/NPIU, Project Institutions regardless of value will be subject to prior
review by the Bank as per provisions set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix- 1 of the Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits of January 1995, revised January 1996, August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999. All consultancy contracts with firms of value more than US$100,000
and with individuals of value more than US$50,000 would be subject to prior review by the Bank as per
provisions set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix-I of Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers of January 1997, revised September 1997, January 1999 and May
2002.
Post Review
The contracts below the prior review threshold for works, goods and consultancy contracts shall be
subject to post review as per procedure set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix-I of the Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits of January 1995, revised January, August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999 and paragraph 4 of Appendix- I of Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers of January 1997, revised September 1997, January
1999 and May 2002. About 5% of the contracts are expected to be post-reviewed. The Project provides
for a financial audit to be conducted by independent auditors to be hired by the NPIU, the SPFUs, and the
centrally funded institutions for expenditures incurred as well as asset verification and technical audit. In
addition to the review of the audit reports and the random ex-post reviews conducted by firms engaged
by the Region for post award reviews on the India portfolio as a whole, Bank staff would conduct post
award review during supervision missions.
Procurement Information
Each institution will quarterly prepare a progressive statement giving details of bids floated, bids
rejected, contracts awarded, contracts completed and percentage utilization of funds allocated for various
physical resources. These statements will be submitted to their respective BOG and the SPFU. The
SPFUs will in turn compile their state-wide progressive statements quarterly and submit the same to the
NPIU. The NPIU will compile the progressive statements nationally for each quarter, and present the
same to the NPD for review. The NPIU will also prepare progressive statements bi-annually for Joint
Review Missions.
- 74 -



Proposed Procurement Arrangements
The Program components, their estimated costs, and proposed methods of procurement have been
summarized in Table-A.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
,.  .f .;     -J.,       .        Procurement NMelbod     _         _-___________
'Exjenditiure Calegi6ry.     ., B,:          NCB>     :.;-   t-,r  . N.F:B .  T Totai:Cbst.
1. Institutional Development   6.09         76.13      222.28                304.50
sub-projects                   (4.87)      (60.90)    (177.53).              (243.30)
2. Goods'                                     -          1.01                  1.01
(0.79)                (0.79)
3. Consultant services'          -            -         1.22                   1.22
(0.97)                (0.97)
4. Training and workshops'       -            -          1.40                  1.40
(1.40)                 (1.40)
5. Incremental Operating         -            -         5.87                   5.87
costs including salaries'                              (3.54)                 (3.54)
Total                           6.09        76.13      231.78                 314.00
1    (4.87)      (60.90)    (184.23)               (250.00)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of staff of
the Program management offices and contracted staff for institutional project implementation, training, technical
assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to the Program.
3/ Categories 2-5 of expenditure refer only to Component-2: System Management Capacity Improvement.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure          Contract Value (Threshold)  Procurement Method Contracts Subject to Prior
Category                                                              Review/Estimated Total
Value Subject to Prior
Review
Civil Works          (a) Civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of
US$50,000 or less per contract
may be executed by:
(i) Fixed price contracts  National Shopping  Post Review only
(ii) Unit/Piece Rate
System through qualified  Rate Contract      Post Review only
contractors
(iii) By Force Account as Force Account      Post Review only
a last resort in a manner
- 75 -



satisfactory to the
Association
(b) Civil works estimated to  National Competitive  First works contract by each
cost more than the equivalent  Bidding (NCB)  institution under NCB
of US$50,000 per contract.                    regardless of value and all
contracts above US$300,000
by prior review in accordance
with paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits of
January 1995, revised January
1996, August 1996, September
1997 and January 1999. All
others by post review.
Goods
(a) Equipment       (i) US$50,000 equivalent or  International Shopping
less per contract         and National Shopping Post Review only
(includes DGS&D rate
contracts).
(ii) Proprietary equipment of  Direct Contracting  Post Review only
US$20,000 equivalent or less
per contract
(iii) Contracts of more than  National Competitive  First bidding document and
US$50,000 equivalent but less Bidding (NCB)   first contract from each
than US$300,000 equivalent.                   SPFU/NPIU/ each Project
Institution by Prior Review.
(iv) Contracts of more than  International     First bidding document from
US$ 300, 000 equivalent   Competitive Bidding  NPIU and all contracts for
prior review
(b) Furniture       US$50,000 equivalent or less  National Shopping  Post Review only
per contract
(c) Books, Proprietary US$50,000 equivalent or less  Direct Contracting  Post Review only
Software, Learning  per contract
Resources and
Educational Materials
(d) Vehicles        US$50,000 equivalent or less  National Shopping  Post Review only
per contract,             procedures (includes
DGS&D rate
contracts).
(e) Small Items     US$500 equivalent or less per Direct Contracting  Post Review only
contract upto an aggregate of
US $ 1,000,000.
Services
Procurement agent,  Consultant services may be                    Prior Review of all consultant
research contracts,  procured by:                                 contracts shall be governed by
professional services,                                            the provisions of paragraphs
training, workshops  (a) More than US$200,000  Quality- and       (i), (ii) and (iii) below:
- 76 -



and fellowships,    equivalent per contract.  Cost-Based Selection
(QCBS)              (i) With respect to each
contract for the employment
of consulting firms estimated
to cost the equivalent of US$
100,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in
paragraphs 1, 2 -and 5 of
Quality- and        Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
Cost-Based Selection  for Selection and Employment
(QCBS) with short list of Consultants by World Bank
(would comprise     Borrowersof January 1997,
entirely of national  revised September 1997,
consultants for all  January 1999 and May 2002
contracts below     shall apply.
US$500,000)
(b) More than US$100,000 and Selection based on a  (ii)With respect to each
up to US$200,000 equivalent  Fixed Budget (SFB)  contract for the employment
of individual consultants
estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$50,000 or
more, the qualifications,
experience, terns of reference
(c) US$100,000 equivalent or Selection based on  and terms of employment of
less per contract.        Consultant's        the consultants shall be
Qualification (CQ)  furnished to the Association
for its prior review and
approval. The contract shall
be awarded only after the said
approval has been given.
(iii) Terms of Reference for
all consultant contracts
estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$20,000 or
more per contract in the case
of firms, and the equivalent of
US$10,000 or more per
contract in the case of
individuals shall be fumished
to the Association for its prior
review and approval. The
contract shall be awarded only
after the said approval has
been given.
All other cases                                Post Review
- 77 -



Miscellaneous
Incremental operating Expenses incurred on
costs.               maintenance of equipment,
vehicles and buildings, hiring
cost of vehicles and offices,
and consumables may be
executed by:
(i) Each package not exceeding Direct Contracting  Post Review only
US$5000, or
(ii) On the basis of National  National Shopping  Post Review only
Shopping
Total Value of Contracts subject to prior review: Around 2.5%
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: As NPIU which would coordinate all procurement activities is
the same agency which has handled two Bank projects earlier, no separate procurement assessment is
being made. As regards the participating institutions, a sample group has been assessed and their
capacity descibed above.The Overall Risk Assessment is Average.
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits).
- 78 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement in respect of Program Component-1: The disbursements will be made on the basis of
statement of expenditure for (a) works and goods contracts costing less than $300,000 equivalent each;
(b) consultants' services under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, in case of firms, and
$50,000 equivalent each, in the case of individuals; (c) books and instructional material; (d) training,
fellowships and workshops; and (e) incremental operating and maintenance costs defined as salaries of
additional staff for the NPIU and SPFU, expenses incurred on operation and maintenance of equipment
and vehicles, hiring cost of vehicles and offices, maintenance of office buildings, travel expenses, office
expenses and consumables such as telephone, stationary, electricity, water, etc.
Retroactive Financing: Retroactive financing up to an amount of US$1.32274 million (SDR 1.0 million
equivalent) would cover eligible expenditure for implementing activities of the NPIU and project states
after January 1, 2002. Retroactive financing would support salaries of additional staff, staff training,
office rentals and running costs, fumiture and equipment, consultancies, travel, and
conferences/meetings. The activities would include all advance actions taken for designing, testing and
establishing the process and criteria for evaluation and selection of institutions under the program,
studies undertaken, invitation and evaluation of proposals from states and institutions, training of project
staff, etc.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million        Financing Percentage
Institutional Development Subprojects    232.00                        80%
(component 1)
Goods (component 2)                       0.63           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
80% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Books and leaming resources                0.16                       100%
(component 2)
Consultant services including audit       0.97                         80%
fees(component 2)
Training and workshops (component 2)       1.40                        100%
Incremental Operating costs including      3.54            80% until 12/31/2004, 65% until
salaries (component 2)                                      12/31/2006, and 25% thereafter
Unallocated                               11.30
Total Project Costs                       250.00
Total                                     250.00
Country Issues
The following country issues identified as generic to India, will apply to the Program:
*   The Govemment (Central and State) funded/aided institutions' existing accounting system
concentrates mainly on bookkeeping and transactional control over expenditures. There is
no concept of financial management information being used for decision-making. However, a
separate Program operations manual is being developed to address this issue, which will
- 79 -



form the basis for generation of reliable financial reports including FMRs that will provide
information regarding procurement along with linkages of financial information with
physical performance. The generation of FMRs will also enable timely managerial
decision-making.
*   The issue of availability of funds on a timely basis to the implementing entities applies to the
extent of this being a state sector program also. However, the government order for release of
funds to the institutions will also specify the number of installments in which the funds have
to be released, thus commitment of funds to the Program by the states is ensured.
The following country issues will not apply:
* Quality and timeliness of audit reports as the audit of NPIU, centrally funded institutions and
each SPFU will be done by a firm of chartered accountants with TOR agreed with the Bank.
* Annual audited financial statements will also be generated.
Strengths and Weaknesses
The Program has the following strengths in the area of financial management: (i) The NPIU has
successfully implemented two Technician Education projects (I & II) and is currently implementing the
Third Technician Education Project and the existing finance personnel are trained in Bank's
disbursement procedures and financial reporting requirements; (ii) an operations manual has already been
prepared and is in use for the Third Technician Education Project which details the fund flow process,
accounting arrangements, financial reporting, auditing, etc., and will be adopted for the Program with
some modifications; and (iii) a system of submission of accounts from institutions to the states already
exists.
The Pro gram has the following significant weaknesses:
Significant weaknesses                         Resolution
Staffing: The NPIU and the SPFUs need to be  GOI will ensure that the NPIU is provided with
adequately staffed with accounts and finance  adequate key finance staff (Financial
personnel                               Management Specialist and Accounts Manager) at
all times during Program implementation.
Each SPFU to be strengthened and provided with
adequate accounts staff.
An   existing  accounting  system  which  An operations manual with focus on financial
primarily focuses on book-keeping and not on  reporting and monitoring is being developed
financial management                    based on the existing manual for the Third
Technician Education Project.
Funds Flow
This has been discussed in section C - 4 of the PAD.
Staffing
NPIU: The finance wing at the NPIU will be headed by a Financial Management Specialist (FMS), who
would be a qualified finance professional and would be assisted by a qualified accountant designated as
Accounts Manager (AM). Both the FMS and the AM will be supported by adequate staff. The FMS will
be responsible for establishment of the agreed financial management arrangements, providing timely
- 80 -



financial reports to the stakeholders including the Bank, facilitating smooth and timely flow of the funds
to centrally funded institutions and providing overall guidance in respect of the financial management
issues including monitoring of expenditures, audit and intemal control to the SPFUs and the Project
Institutions. Both the FMS and the Accounts Manager will be appointed by March 2003. However, in
the interim the existing FMS in the NPIU will provide support.
SPFUs: At SPFUs the finance function will be headed by a Finance Coordinator with adequate accounts
staff. (S)he will be responsible for providing timely consolidated financial reports to the state authorities
and the NPIU, monitoring of expenditures, providing overall guidance to the Project institutions,
facilitating smooth flow of funds to all Project institutions and conduct of timely audit and ensuring
consolidation of withdrawal/reimbursement claims.
IPIU: A senior finance staff will be designated as in-charge of the accounts function for the Program
funds. (S)he will be responsible for complying with the disbursement procedures, financial reporting
requirements, monitoring of project expenditures and audit.
Accounting Policies and Procedures
An Operations Manual has been developed for the Third Technician Education Project. The manual lays
down in detail the applicable accounting policies and procedures, accounting system including the Chart
of Accounts to enable data to be captured and classified by expenditure center, project components and
disbursement categories. A similar operations manual will be developed to meet the requirements of the
Program. Standard books of accounts (cash and bank books, journals, ledgers, etc.) would be maintained
at the NPIU, each SPFU and each Project institution.
Audit:
Internal audit is not being recommended as the current system of pre-audit operating at the Central and
State funded institutions is considered satisfactory.
External Audit : There are no outstanding audit reports relating to any of the participating States in
respect of Technical Education I and II projects. However, all the States proposing to participate in the
current program have outstanding audit observations in respect of Technical Education I and II projects
implemented earlier. The audit observations generally relate to excess claims filed, claims filed after
project closure, claims filed twice etc. which indicate a flaw in the system - specially in preparation and
submission of claims. The system needs to be strengthened. The total amount involved - all the states
put together - is about Rs. 20 million. The states have submitted satisfactory action plans for the
settlement of outstanding issues and strengthening the system. Not withstading the right of the CAG to
conduct audit, the audit arrangement in respect of the current program is provided below:
*   NPIU accounts will be audited by a firm of Chartered Accountants
*   The SPFU accounts (including project expenditure incurred at the institutions) will be audited by
a firm of Chartered Accountants. At each SPFU, expenditure statements received from the
respective participating institutions will be consolidated in the audit report of the SPFU. Each
SPFU will thus submit a single consolidated audit certificate to NPIU.
*   The participating institutions will be audited through their existing audit mechanism and will
submit a report to the SPFU for monitoring and control purpose.
*   The centrally funded institutions will be audited by firms of chartered accountants. The audit
reports of the centrally funded institutions received by the NPIU will be consolidated by a firm of
- 81 -



Chartered Accountants.
* The firms of Chartered Accountants acceptable to CAG would be duly selected and appointed in
accordance with IDA Guidelines to conduct audit on Terms of Reference angreed with IDA and
included in the PIP.
The IDA will receive all audit reports through the NPIU-of the NPIU, a consolidated audit report for
the centrally sponsored institutions, and of each SPFU within six months of close of the fiscal year. Thus
the following audit reports will be monitored in the Audit Reports Compliance System (ARCS).
Implementing Agency            Audit          Auditors
NPIU                           SOE / Project A firm of Chartered Accountants
Audit
NPIU - one report for all centrally SOE / Project A firm of Chartered Accountants
sponsored institutions         Audit
SPFUs including Institutions exp.  SOE / Project A firm of Chartered Accountants
Audit
DEA / GOI                      Special        Comptroller & Auditor General of
Account        India
Reporting and Monitoring:
The financial reporting from the institutions will be on a quarterly basis to the respective SPFU. The
institutes will report detailed expenditure by nature of expenditure, e.g. works, goods, services,
incremental operating costs etc. The SPFUs will consolidate the expenditure claims of the institutions
with its own reimbursement claim and submit to NPIU. Simialrly the central institutions will submit their
claims directly to NPIU. NPIU will consolidate all the claims received from each SPFU, central
institutions and its own, and file withdrawal claims through CAA&A of the GOI to the IDA. From the
effectiveness of the Program, the NPIU will also consolidate FMRs for the entire projects and send it to
the NPD and IDA on a quarterly basis.
In respect of Program Component-1: Institutional Development (through competitive funding), the
expenditures incurred will also be reported on activities under each of the sub-components relating to: (i)
Promotion of academic excellence, (ii) Networking of institutions for quality enhancement and resource
sharing; and (iii) Enhancing quality and reach of services to community and economy. The formats for
reporting expenditures have been agreed and included in the PIP.
The Quarterly Financial Management Reports will include:
*   comparison of budgeted and actual expenditures and analysis of major variances, including on
aspects such as sources of funds and application of funds (classified by components,
sub-components, summarized expenditure categories, etc.);
*   comparison of budgeted and actual expenditure and analysis of major variances on key physical
parameters and unit rates for selected key items;
*   forecast for the next two quarters; and
*   information for procurement management of major contracts.
Project Financial Statements and Financial Management reports will be generated manually. The FMR
formats have been developed for the Program and included in the PIP.
- 82 -



Information Systems
The financial statements and other information generated by the SPFUs, Project Institutions and the
NPIU will be in manual mode. The operations manual being developed for the Program will lay down in
detail the system of flow of information, the periodicity and the content from each level to the NPIU.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements from IDA credit would initially be made in the traditional system (reimbursement with
full documentation and against statement of expenditure) and could be converted to the Financial
Management Report (FMR) based disbursement at the option of GOI, the Project States, and IDA after
the Program successfully demonstrates generation of quality FMRs.
Special account:
A Special Account would be maintained in the Reserve Bank of India; and would be operated by the
Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) of the Government of India (GOI). The authorized allocation of
the Special Account would be US$12 million that represents about three months of average estimated
disbursements from the IDA Credit.
The NPIU will submit withdrawal applications to CAA&A in the DEA for onward submission to the IDA
for replenishment of the special account for reimbursement.
Action Plan
Action                  Responsible            Completion
Person/                 Date
Agency
Finalization of an operations manual      NPIU             December 31, 2002
Appointment of dedicated accounts staff al  SPFU     Existing staff in state will continue
SPFU                                                 to perform the function till such
appointment - no later than March
31, 2003
Financial Covenants
Covered in Section G of the PAD.
Supervision Plan
The focus area during the supervision will be on training of finance personnel at different levels to ensure
that the resources are being adequately accounted for, review of funds flow system and resolution of
audit issues.
- 83 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
INDIA: Technical/Engineering Education Quality Improvement Project
Project Schedule                                 Planned                    Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     18                          22
First Bank mission (identification)            09/15/2000                  01/08/2001
Appraisal mission departure                    08/06/2001                  06/28/2002
Negotiations                                   11/26/2001                  09/16/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  01120/2003
Prepared by:
Program design, guidelines, working documents, Project Implementation Plan, and Tribal Developomemt
Plan prepared by the Department of Secondary and Higher Education, MHRD, GOI
Preparation assistance:
National Project Implementation Unit
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Shashi K. Shrivastava             Senior Education Specialist, SASHD -Task Tearn Leader
Sajitha Bashir                    Senior Education Economist
Ralph W. Harbison (late)          Consultant - Policy Planning
C. S. Jha                         Consultant - Technical Education
S. A. A. Alvi                     Consultant - Project Implementation
Vandana Sipahimalani-Rao          Education Economist
Meera Chatterjee                  Senior Social Development Specialist
S. Krishnan                       Senior Procurement Engineer
Rajat Narula                      Senior Financial Management Specialist
Erik W. Thulstrup                 Consultant - Science and Technology Management
Sanjay Rastogi                    Consultant - Financial Management
D.K. Srivastava                   Consultant - Economnist
M.H. Dhananjaya                   Consultant - Institutional Management
Ravinder Kaur                     Consultant - Social Development
Jamil Salmi                       Manager (Education), HDNED - Peer Reviewer
Lauritz Holm-Neilsen              Lead Education Specialist - Peer Reviewer
Amit Dar                          SenioT Economist - Peer Reviewer
Grant Sinclair                    Lead Education Specialist - Advisor
Sara Gonzalez Flavell             Senior Counsel, LEGMS
Gertrude Cooper                   Program Assistant
Renu Gupta                        Program Assistant
- 84 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
INDIA: TechnicallEngineering Education Quality Improvement Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Technical Education Quality Improvement Programme of Government of India: Project
Implementation Plan, prepared by National Project Implementation Unit (NPIU), August 2002
2. Technical Education Quality Improvement Programme of the Government of India: Tribal
Development Plan, prepared by National Project Implementation Unit (NPIU), May 2002
3. Technical Education Quality Improvement Project of Government of India: Working Document for
States and Institutions - Document No. 3, prepared by National Project Implementation Unit (NPIU),
March 14, 2002
4. Technical Education Quality Improvement Project of Government of India: Inputs to Composite
Proposal by a Sample Lead Institution, April 2002
5. Technical Education in India - an Overview
6. Technical Education Project HI: Draft Concept Document, prepared by National Project
Implementation Unit (NPIU), March 18, 1999
7. Third Technical Education Project: Draft Proposal, prepared by National Project Implementation
Unit (NPIU), October 4, 1999
8. Sub-Sector Development Program for Technical Education in India (2000-2011): Draft Proposal,
prepared by Educational Consultants India Limited, November 2000
9. Sub-Sector Development Programme for Technical Education in India: Draft - Programme
Description and Guidelines, prepared by National Project Implementation Unit (NPIU), March 14,
2001
10. Sub-Sector Development Programme for Technical Education in India: Programme Description and
Guidelines-Document No. 1, prepared by National Project Implementation Unit (NPIU), May 25,
2001
11. Sub-Sector Development Programme for Technical Education in India: Creating an Enabling
Environment for Promoting Excellence - Administrative and Procedural Reforms - Document No. 2,
prepared by National Project Implementation Unit (NPIU), May 25, 2001
12. Technical Education Quality Improvement Project of Government of India: Haryana State Reportfor
Appraisal Mission, prepared by Department of Technical Education, Chandigarh, August 2002
13. Technical Education Quality Improvement Programme of Government of India: Himachal Pradesh
State Reportfor Appraisal Mission, prepared by Department of Technical Education, Vocational &
Industrial Training, Himachal Pradesh, August 2002
14: Technical Education Quality Improvement Program: Kerala State Reportfor Appraisal Mission,
prepared by Higher Education Department, Government of Kerala, August 2002
15. Technical Education Quality Improvement Project of Government of India: Madhya Pradesh State
Report for Appraisal Mission, prepared by Directorate of Technical Education, Madhya Pradesh,
August 2002
16. Technical Education Quality Improvement Project of Government of India: Maharashtra State
Reportfor Appraisal Mission, prepared by Department of Higher & Technical Education,
Maharashtra State, Mumbai, August 2002
17. Technical Education Quality Improvement Project of Government of India: Uttar Pradesh State
Report for Appraisal Mission, prepared by Department of Technical Education, Government of Uttar
Pradesh, Lucknow, August 2002
18. Accreditation in Technical Education through NBA, March 2002
- 85 -



B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. India: Country Assistance Strategy, March 2001, Report No. 21852- IN, The World Bank
2. Sector Study: Scientific and Technical Manpower Development in India, August 30, 2000, Report
No. 20416-IN, The World Bank
3. India: Technician Education Project, Implementation Completion Report, 1999, Report Number
19042, The World Bank
4. India: Subsector Program for Technical Education, Aide Memoire: Reconnaissance Mission (October
25-November 5, 1999)
5. India: Subsector Program for Technical Education, Concept Paper, December 1999
6. India: Third Technician Education Project, Project Apprisal Document, August 200.
7. World Bank, Aide Memoire: Subsector Program for Technical Education - Concept Review Mission
(January 8-19, 2001)
8. Engineering and Technical Education Quality Improvement Program-I: Project Concept Document,
October 30, 2001
9. World Bank, Aide Memoire: Pre-appraisal Mission (April 1-12, 2002)
10. World Bank, Notes of Discussion: Appraisal Mission (July 1-24, 2002)
11. Srivastava D.K.& Rao B., Analysing the Market for Engineering Education in India, 2002.
12. Dhananj aya M.K. & Bhashyam A.T., Unit Costs and Sources of Financing for Engineering Colleges,
2002.
13. Ravinder Kaur, Social Frameworkfor Technical Education-Appraisal of Social Issues in
Engineering Education,2002.
14. Thulstrup E.W., Changing strategies in S&THigher Education - a collection ofpapersfor
motivation and inspiration,2002.
15. Constructing Knowldege Societies: New Challenges for Tertiary Education, 2002, The World Bank
C. Other
1. Mashelkar Committee Report on Regional Engineering Colleges (1998), MHRD, GOI
2. Rama Rao Committee Report on Post Graduate Education in Engineering and Technology (1999),
AICTE
3. Indiresan Committee Report on Technical Teachers' Training Institutes (November 2000), MHRD,
GOI
4. Draft Policy Guidelines for Training Teachers of Polytechnics and Engineering Colleges (May 2000)
, MHRD, GOI
5. ITManpower Advisory Committee (2000), MHRD, GOI
6. Raju Committee Report on Networking of Engineering Institutions (2001), MHRD GOI
7. Swaminadhan Committee Report on Mobilization ofAdditional Resources for Technical Education,
AICTE
8. India as Knowledge Superpower: Strategy for Transformation, (June 2001), Planning Commission,
GOI
9. Tenth Five Year Plan (2002-2007) - Working Group Paper on Technical Education (October 2001),
Planning Commission,GOI.
10. Kalam and Rajan, India 2020: A Vision for the New Millennium, 1998.
Including electronic files
- 86 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
INDIA: Technical/Engineering Education Quality Improvement Project
05-Sep-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in us$ millions                            disbursements'
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                 GEF    Cancel.    Undisb.      Orig  Frm Revd
P073094       2003 AP COMM FOREST MANG                               0.00    108.21                 0.00      0.00    113.07       0.00      0 00
P069889       2002 MIZORAM~ ROADS                                    0.00     60.00                 0.00      0.00     59.24      -1 67      0.00
P050647       2002 UTTAR PRADESH WATER SECTOR RESTRUCTU              0.00    149.20                 0 00      0.00    149.76       7 06      0 00
P040610       2002 RAJ WSRP                                          0.00    140 00                 000o      0.00    140.46      -3.09      0 00
P050653        2002 KARNATAKA RWSS 1I                                0.00    151.60                 0 00      0.00     153.61     -0.41      0 00
P050668       2002 MUMBAt URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT                  463.00     7900                  0 00      0.00    54.56        6 33      0 00
P074018       2002 Gujarat Emiergency Earthquake Reconstruct         0 00    442.60                 0 00      0.00    423 66      53 95      0 00
P071033        2002 KARN TANK MGMT                                   0.00     96.90                 0.00      0.00     104.36     -0.76      0.00
P072539        2002 KERALA STATE TRANSPORT                         255.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00     244.95     -7 38      0.00
P059242       2001 MP DPIP                                           0.00    110.10                 0.00      0 05     105.76     17 43      0.00
P055454        2001 KERALA RWSS                                      0 00     65.50                 0.00      0 00      61.55      5 96      0 00
P050658        2001 TECHN EDUC ItI                                   0.00     64 90                 0.00      000o     60.14      11 01      0.00
P035173        2001 POWERGRID 11                                   450.00      0 00                 0 00      0.00     347 96     44 29      0.00
P055455        2001 RAJ DPEP It                                      0.00     74 40                 0.00      0.00      7115       2.29      0.00
P010566       2001 GUJARAT HWYS                                    361.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00     329.66     95.33      0.00
P070421        2001 KARN HWYS                                      360.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00     335.56     19 56      0.00
P067543        2001 LEPROSY It                                       0.06     30.00                 0.00      0 00      23.16      3 02      0.00
P067216        2001 KAR WSHD DEVELOPMENT                             0.00    100.40                 0.00      0.00     101 46      7 20      0.00
P038334        2001 RAJ POWER I                                    160.00      0.00                 000       0 00     152.94     33.77      0.00
P071244        2001 Grand Trunk Road Inipmoventient Project        569 00      0.00                 0.00      0.00     562 26     65.26      0.00
P035172       2000 UP POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJEC            150.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00      64 79     12 12      0.00
P050657       2000 UP Health Systemsr Development Project            0.00     110.00                0.00      0.00     103.61     20.01      0.00
P049770       2000 REN EGY I1                                       60.00     50.00                 0.00      0.00     119.65     2124       000
P045049       2000 AP DPIP                                           0.00     111.00                0.00      0.00      97.00     10684      0.00
P067330       2000 IMMUNIZATION STRENGTHENING PROJECT                0.00     142 60                0.00       0.00     63.05     22.57      0.00
P009972       2000 NATIONAL HIGHWAYS III PROJECT                   516.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00    439.59    103.27      0.00
P010505       2000 RAJASTHAN DPIP                                    0.00     100.46                0.00       0.00     95.21     23862      0.00
P059501        2000 IN-TA for Ecotn Reform Project                   0.00     45.00                 0.00       0.00     40 36      6.92      0.00
P055-456       2000 IN-Telecommunioations Sector Reform TA          62.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     57.65     36 69      0.00
P050667       2000 UP DPEP III                                       0.00     162.40                0.00       0 00     9512      37.53       0.00
P049537        1999 AP POWER APL I                                 210.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     65 97     65 97      0.00
P050637        1999 TN URBAN DEV 11                                105.00      0.00                 0 00       0 00     30.11      1.41      0.00
P050646        1999 UP SODIC LANDS 11                                0 00     194.10                0.06       0.00    123.12     65 67      0.00
P041264        1999 WTRSHD MGMT HILLS 11                            65.00     50.00                 0 00       0 00     6264      37.92      a000
P050651        1999 MAHARASH HEALTH SYS                              0.00     134.00                0.00       0.00    110.13      67.45      0.00
P045050        1999 RAJASTHAN DPEP                                   0.00     65.70                 0.00       0.00     59 75     62.54       0 00
P045051        1999 2ND NATL HIV/AIDS CO                             0 00     191.00                0.00       0.00    101.00     26594      a000
P035827        1996 WOMEN & CHILD DEVLPM                             0.00     300.00                0.00       0.00    164 10      70.39      0.00
P038021        1996 DPEP III (BIHAR)                                 0.00     152.00                0.00       0.00    110.31     100.17      0.00
P01 0661       1996 NATL AGR TECHNOLOGY                             99.60     100.00                0.00       0.00    106.61      7646       0.00
P035169        1996 UP FORESTRY                                      0.00      52.94                0.00       0.00     12.14      12 79      0.00
P035824        1996 DIV AGRC SUPPORT                                79.90     50.00                 0.00       0.00     79.94      65.60     26.63
P010496        1996 ORISSA HEALTH SYS                                0.00     76.40                 0.00       0.00     62 05      37.51      0.00
P049477        1996 KERALA FORESTRY                                  0.00     3900                  0.00       0.00     19596      13.75      0 00
P049385       1996 AP ECON RESTRUCTURIN                            301,30    241.90                 0.00       0.00    239 23     173.57      0.00
P009584        1997 ECODEVELOPMENT                                   0.00      0.00                 0.00       2.34      3.94      7 60       0.00
P010531        1997 REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH1                             0.00    246.30                 0.00       0.00     72.24     77 66      64.14
P010511        1997 MALARIA CONTROL                                  0.00    164680                 0.00       0 00    107.97     107.96      0.00
P009995        1997 STATE HIGHWAYS l(API                           350.00      0.00                 0.00       0 00    117.78      9612       0.00
P010473        1997 TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL                             0.00     142 40                0.00       0.00     91.56     103 37      0.00
P036062        1997 ECODEVELOPMENT                                   0.00     28.00                20.00       566       7.00      14.95      2.866
P043728        1997 ENV CAPACITY BLDG TA                             0.00     50.00                 0.00       0.94     12.02      1641       0.00
P044449        1997 RURAL WOMEN'S DEVELOPMENT                        0.00      19.50                0 00       0.00     14.41      16.06     2.215
- 87 -



Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                            disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                   IBRD          IDA                   GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.      Ofig   Frm ReVd
P049301        1997 A.P EMERG. CYCLONE                              50.00    100 00                0.00      19.00     14.16      37.81      10.89
P035158        1997 AP IRRIGATION III                              175.00    150.00                0.00       0 00    148.85     134.88      0 00
P010480        1996 BOMBAY SEW DISPOSAL                            167.00     25.00                0.00      10.00     4865       59.93     40 62
P010484        1996 UP & Uttaranchal RURAL WATER                    59.60      0.00                0.00       7.20     21.93      29.13      21.93
P010485        1996 HYDROLOGY PROJECT                                0.00    142.00                0.00      19.64     21 33      63.53      3624
P010529        1996 ORISSAWRCP                                       0.00    290.90                0.00       0.00     70 56      87.27       0.00
P035170        1996 ORISSA POWER SECTOR                            350.00      0.00                0.00      60.00     12687     186.87       0.00
P035821        1996 DPEP II                                          0 00    425.20                0.00       0 00     7140       17.38       0.00
P035825        1996 STATE HEALTH SYS II                              0.00    350.00                 0.00      0.00     7018      110.28       0.00
P010461        1995 MADRAS WATSUPII                                275.80      0.00                 000     189.30     12.79     202.09      1279
P010463        1995 INDUS POLLUTION PREV                           143.00     25.00                 0.00     68.31     33.64     103.58       8.43
P010464        1995 DISTRICT PRIMARY ED                              0.00    260 30                 0.00      0.00     50 59      67.43      18.23
P010522        1995 ASSAM RURAL INFRA                                0.00    126.00                 0.00      0.00     29.93      35.03      48.45
P010476        1995 TAMIL NADUWRCP                                   0.00    28290                  0.00     25.01     4875      116.35      41.83
P009977        1993 ICDS II (BIHAR & MP)                             0.00    194.00                 0.00      0.00      9.49      15.52      15.53
P009946        1992 NAT. HIGHWAYS II                               153.00    153.00                 0.00      273       21.27     1329       13.29
Total:    6087.40    7260.83              20.00      410 33    7897.63    3281 43    359.71
- 88 -



INDIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1992               Indus VCF                    0.00    0.61    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.61    0.00    0.00
1992               Info Tech Fund               0.00    0.62    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.62     0.00   0.00
1992/94/97         Ispat Industries             0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    3.00     0.00   0.00
1989/95           JSB India                     0.00    0.28    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.28     0.00   0.00
2001               Jetair                       0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00
2001               LearningUniverse             0.00    0.25    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.25     0.00    0.00
1981/90/93         M&M                          0.00    0.55    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.55     0.00   0.00
2002               MMFSL                       17.19    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001               Mahlnfra                     0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996/99/00         Moser Baer                  24.81   14.80    0.00    0.00    9.18   14.80    0.00   0.00
NICCO-UCO                    2.43    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.43    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/96/97         NuIT                         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
Orchid                       0.00    0.00   30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00
2001               Owens Coming                25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001               Pennar Steel                 0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00
1997               Prism Cement                12.19    5.02    0.00    7.50   12.19    5.02    0.00    7.50
1981               RCIHL                        0.00    1.97    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.97    0.00    0.00
1995               RTL                          0.00    0.45    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.45    0.00    0.00
2001               Rain Calcining               13.33   5.46    0.00    0.00   13.33    5.46    0.00    0.00
2001               SAPL                         0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00
1995               SREI                        10.00    0.00    5.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1997               Sara Fund                    0.00    5.94    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.94    0.00    0.00
1997/00            Spryance                     0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
1995               Sundaram Finance             0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001               Sundaram Home                10.23   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986/93/94/95      TCFC Finance Ltd             0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000/02            TCW/ICICI                    0.00    6.46    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.46    0.00    0.00
2000               TDICI-VECAUS II              0.00    0.15    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.15    0.00    0.00
1998               TISCO                        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990               TanfloraPark                 0.00    0.51    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1981/86/89/92/94   Tata Electric                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Titan Industries             0.00    0.52    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.52    0.00    0.00
1989/90/94         UCAL                         0.00    0.53    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.53    0.00    0.00
1987/88/90/93      United Riceland             10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989               VARUN                        0.00    0.36    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.36    0.00    0.00
1996               Vysya Bank                   0.00    7.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.30    0.00    0.00
1991/96/01         WIV                          0.00    2.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.11    0.00    0.00
2001               Walden-Mgt India             0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00
1997               Webdunia                     0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.67    0.00    0.00
1997               AEC                          3.12    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.12    0.00    0.00    0.00
2002               Ambuja Cement                0.00    4.94    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.94    0.00    0.00
1989               Arvind Mills                 0.00    4.91    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.91    0.00    0.00
1994               Asian Electronic             0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00
1992/93           BTVL                          0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00
1997
2001
Total Portfolio:      214.98   185.51   50.00   66.75  156.13  156.65   40.00   62.25
Approvals Pending Commitment
- 89 -



FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi     Partic
2002               Cosmo Films                      10.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2002               Apollo Tyres Ltd                20.00      0.00      0.00     15.00
2002               Escorts Telecom                 32.00      0.00     15.00     30.00
1994               INDORAMA DM SWAP                 0.70      0.00      0.00      0.00
1997               GVK-Swap                         2.50      0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               APCL                             7.10      0.00      1.90      0.00
2000               Orissa WESCO                     11.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               Orissa NESCO                     28.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2001               GI Wind Farms                     9.79     0.98      0.00      0.00
2002               TELCOI                           67.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2002               Usha Beltron                     21.00     0.00      3.60      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:      209.09      0.98     20.50     45.00
- 90 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
INDIA: Technical/Engineering Education Quality Improvement Project
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             South     Low-
India      Asia   Income      Development diamond'
2001
Population. mid-year (millions)                    1,015.9     1,380     2,511                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, USS)                    450        450       430
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                     453.4       616     1,069
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                         1.8       1.9       1. 9                    /N
Labor force (%)                                        2.3       2.4       2.3      GNt                             Gross
recent estimate (tatest year                              ~~~~~                     ~~~~~per  -H primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                              capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)                29        28        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        63        62        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               69         73        76
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              47        49        ..           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (I% of population)   88        87        76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    42        44        37
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  100       101        96      -     India       Low-income group
Male                                                 107       109       103
Female                                               93         93        88
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000      2001
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                          182.1    316.8     445.2     457.0
Gross domestic investment/GDP                18.7     24.1      23.6      22.9
Exports of goods and services/GDP             6.2      7.3      12.0      14.0                     Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                   15.1     21.4       20.5     20.3
Gross naUonal savings/GDP                    16.7     20.9       22.5     22.3
Current account balance/GDP                  -2.0     -3.2       -1.1      -0.6     Domestic   l                I
Interest payments/GDP                         0.3      1.2       0.8       0.9     savings            >         Investment
Total debt/GDP                               11.4     26.4       22.1      22.7
Totaldebtservice/exports                      4.4     19.1       15.3      13.8
Present value of debtVGDP                       ..      ..       15.9
Present value of debt/exports                  ..       ..      107.0
Indebtedness
1981-91  1991-01     2000      2001    2001-05
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  5.7      5.9      6.1        4.0       5.8          Indh          Low-income group
GDP per capita                       3.5      4.1      4.2        2.1       4.3
Exports of goods and services        5.9     11.7      6.0        5.0       5.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(I% of GDP)                                                                         30
Agriculture                                  38.9     31.3       26.2      24.9
Industry                                     24.5     27.6       26.0      26.9     1
Manufacturing                               16.3     17.1      15.2      15.8       _
Services                                     36.6     41.1       47.8      48.2      0
Private consumption                          74.8     67.0       66.6      66.5    .151               9     55    m    01
Generalgovernmentconsumption                 10.1     11.6       12.9      13.2                    GDI     -*   GOP
Imports otgoods and services                  9.8      9.9       15.1      16.6
1981-91  1991-01      2000      2001      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   3.1      3.1        1.3      -0.2     40
Industry                                      6.9      6.3        4.9       6.3    30
Manufacturing                               7.4       7.0       4.2       6.7     20
Services                                      6.9      7.9        9.5       4.8     10                     -.-_
Private consumption                           5.8      4.8        1.3       4.3     a
General government consumption                4.2      6.9       12.0       6.5    -10
Gross domestic investment                     6.2      7.8       15.7       2.0            --Expon           .mpert
Imports of goods and services                 5.9      9.5        6.0       5.0
Note: Data are for fiscal year ending March 31 of the year shown, except for population (mid-year 2000); 2001 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key Indicators In the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 91 -



India
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991     2000      2001     Inflation l
Domestic prices                                                                is
(% change)
Consumer prices                              ..     12.8       3.4      3.8    1   S__
Implicit GDP deflator                      11.5     10.5       4.5      4.1     s
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                             o I
Current revenue                              ..       ..      18.9     19.9           a6     97   98    99    00   01
Current budget balance                       ..       ..      -8.3     *8.6           -GDP denator       eCPI
Overall surplus/defici                        ..      ..     -11.2    -11.3
TRADE
1981     1991     2000      2001     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                       8,501   18,477    37,542   44,894     00.000
Marine products                             ..     535     1,183    1,394
Ores and minerals                           ..     970       916     1,158    60.000
Manufactures                             5.105  12,996    29,714   34,511
Total imports (cii)                      15,862   27,914    55,383   59,264    40o,o0
Food                                     1,348     557     2,417     1.432    20.0
Fuel and energy                          6,669   6,028    12,611    15,650
Capital goods                            2,416   5,836     8,965    8.785
s5  96   97   68   99  oo   01
Exportpriceindex(1995=100)                   28      51        116      122
Import price index (1995=100)                27      46       150       162                =Exports     *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                   105      109       77        75
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1981     1991      2000     2001     Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services             11.249  23,028    53,251   63,764   r 
Imports of goods and services            17,821   31,485    67,028   75,656        :r,
Resource balance                          -6,572  -8,457   -13,777  -11,892
Net income                                  325   -3,753    -3,559    -3,821
Net current transfers                     2.693    2,068    12,256   12,798     .
Current account balance  ,                -3,554  -10,142   -5,080   -2,915
Financing items (net)                     2,564    7,650    11,482    8,771
Changes In net reserves                     990    2,492    -6,402    -5,856   .2
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)    6,823    5,834    38,036   42,281
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUSS)            7.9     17.9      43.3     45.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(USS millions)                                                                  Composition of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     20,695   83,717    98,312  103,677
IBRD                                      827    7,685     7,816    7,080                   G 3.462 A 7
IDA                                     5,142   13,312    18,930   18,888                             , 7
Total debt service                          645    4,815    10,110   10,727                         _       8:16.888
IBRD                                      137    1,087     1,390    1,423              /
IDA                                        50     211       469       506             /
Composition of net resource flows                                                                             D 4 85
Official grants                           750     461        382      336      F 48.818
Official creditors                        908    2,334     1,068      589
Private creditors                         789    1,606    -1,658    4,340
Foreign direct investment                   .      97      2,155    2,346                               E:20.575
Portfolio equity                           ..       6      3,036    2.756
World Bank program
Commitments                             2,503    2,186       817    2,064     A - I8RD                   E- Bilateral
Disbursements                             826    1.981     1,460    1,760     8-IDA    D- Other multilateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                       86     586      1,229    1,361     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                 739    1,395      231       399
Interest payments                         101     712       630       568
Net transfers                             639     683      -399      -169
Development Economics                                                                                           9/12102
- 92 -






Report No.:        24239  IN
Type:     PAD



