Report No. PID10780
Project Name             INDIA-Technical/Engineering Education (@)
Quality Improvement Program - Phase I
Region                   South Asia Regional Office
Sector                   Tertiary education (90%); Central
government administration (10%)
Project ID               P072123
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
Implementing Agency
MINISTRY OF HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
Department of Secondary Education and Higher
Education
Address: Shastri Bhavan, New Delhi 110001,
India
Contact Person: Mr. V. S. Pandey,
Joint Secretary and National Project
Director
Tel: 91-11-3382298
Fax: 91-11-3386659
Email: Vspandey@sb.nic.in
National Project Implementation Unit
Address: c/o Ed.CIL House, Plot 18 A,
Sector 16 A, NOIDA, UP 201301, India
Contact Person: Mr. S.K. Misra, Central
Project Advisor
Tel: 91-118-4513921
Fax: 91-118- 4513926
Email: npiu@del3.vsnl.net.in
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        August 26, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      June 26, 2002
Bank Approval Date       October 22, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
The Bank Group's current priorities in India are defined around the
Government's Five-year Plan themes of strengthening the enabling
environment for development and sustainable growth and supporting critical
interventions of special benefit to the poor and disadvantaged. Promoting
private sector led growth and investment will be critical for accelerated
poverty reduction in India.   The Bank Group will focus, amongst other
things, on promoting competitiveness in industry and services.    This would
demand high quality skilled manpower to promote entrepreneurial growth
in new fields of industrial endeavor, to improve the productivity of
Indian industry in both manufacturing and services and make the industry
internationally competitive, and to generate new avenues of employment in
the economy. Although India has one of the largest stock of scientists,
engineers, and technicians, the quality of their training from many



institutions remains poor. The Five-Year Plan documents give a basic
thrust to improving the quality and relevance of technical education by
networking of institutions both in government and private sector, better
linking institutions with industry and the community, and developing
"centers of excellence". The plan also places emphasis on better
governance, and resource mobilization, including cost recovery from
students who can afford to pay.
2. Objectives
To support the production of high quality technical professionals through
reforms in the technical/ engineering education system in order to raise
productivity and competitiveness of the Indian economy
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
In the last ten years, the Bank has funded four successful projects in the
technical/engineering education subsector in India, making it the most
important partner in modernization and upgradation of technical education
- as a complement to the Bank's major involvement in Primary Education
Program in India. The discipline attending to design, implementation and
monitoring of projects assisted by the World Bank is highly valued by both
the central and state governments. The Bank brings valuable international
knowledge and expertise in systemic reforms in the areas of tertiary
education. The Bank's support would accelerate system-wide reforms
proposed in the Program, which may otherwise take much longer due to
resource limitations.
4. Description
The GOI has planned, in conjunction with several States (Haryana, Himachal
Pradesh, Kerala, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh - to begin
with) that are willing to introduce certain reforms, a long-term program
of quality improvement in technical/engineering education. The
development objective of the Program is to be achieved through the
following three groups of activities:catalyzing reforms in policies and
procedures at the central and State levels to create an environment in
which engineering education institutions can achieve their own goals for
excellence and sustain the samesupporting Institutional Development
Subprojects of competitively selected institutions to achieve higher
levels of academic performance and relevance to the society and the
economy, through their individual efforts of quality up-gradation and
through bi-directional sharing of each others special qualities and
resources; andsupporting improvements in efficiency and effectiveness of
the technical/engineering education management system through training of
technical/engineering education policy planners, managers and
administrators, and system research studies.Competitive funding will be
used as the primary strategy to encourage systemic reforms and drive
towards excellence. Only states and institutions willing to undertake
reforms in governance and financing will be eligible for financial support
under the Program. Proposals from clusters of institutions (comprising
lead institutions and network institutions) - based on their own vision,
strategies and action plan for institutional development-- would be
selected through a national level competition.Improvement of system
management capacity - funded in a non-competitive investment mode - would
support system-wide improvements and reforms through the training of
engineering/technical education policy planners, managers and
administrators; research studies; and the establishment of Program
- 2-



management structures at the central and state levels.     Component 1:
Institutional Development through Competitive FundingUnder this component,
well-performing engineering institutions - both public and private -
would be selected through an open competition for assistance to attain
higher standards of quality of education and to establish close linkages
with industry, community and other institutions. The Program would
support the following three activities in each Institutional Development
Sub-project:a) Promotion of Academic Excellence: The Program will
support well-performing and competitively selected institutions (about 20
lead institutions and 60-80 networked institutions, in the First Phase) to
achieve their self-delineated vision of excellence. The approach to
achievement of excellence would, among others, include granting of very
significant autonomy to the institutions; enhancing faculty and staff
competence, increasing and utilizing capacity for postgraduate education;
establishing teaching and research programs in cutting-edge technology
areas; increasing interaction with industry, enhancing sponsored research
and consultancy; and instituting academic reforms including program
flexibility.b) Networking of Institutions for Quality Enhancement and
Resource Sharing: The network activities would, among others, include
sharing of teaching, learning, physical and human resources; faculty and
staff competence enhancement; improvement of academic processes; and joint
publications, researches and consultancies. In addition, institutions
would be encouraged to develop/strengthen linkages with public and private
research and development laboratories and organizations, as well as
leading national and international academic institutions, and industries.
c) Enhancing Quality and Reach of Services to Community and Economy: All
institutions will participate in this sub-component with the involvement
of faculty and students. Technical and advisory services provided to the
local community and economy (especially informal sectors) would be
demand-based. Component 2:    System Management Capacity Improvement This
component would support : (a) development of a modern management style
through training of policy planners, managers and administrators from the
central and participating State governments, and their bodies concerned
with the management of technical/engineering education, (b) management of
policy research studies at the State and national levels, (c) management
of performance, quality and efficiency audits of institutions by States,
and (d) establishment of structures and facilities for Program management
at the central and State levels.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $64.00
IBRD
IDA $250.00
Total Project Cost $314.00
6. Implementation
The Program would be implemented as a long-term program of 10-12 years in
2-3 overlapping phases, each of about 5 years duration. Initially, Bank
assistance would be provided only for the First Phase of about 5 years.
It would be a central-cum-multi-state program with coordination and
guidance provided by the Department of Secondary Education and Higher
Education (DSEHE) in the Ministry of Human Resource Development of the
Government of India. The overall responsibility for coordination,
implementation and monitoring of the Program would be vested in the
- 3-



National Program Director, who will be a senior official of the rank of a
Joint Secretary in the DSEHE. The NPD will be assisted by a National
Program Implementation Unit (NPIU) established as an autonomous unit. At
the state level, the state secretaries of education assisted by the state
directors of technical/higher education and a State Program Facilitating
Unit (SPFU) will be responsible forProgram implementation. The central
institutions selected under the program will receive funding through the
budgetary provisions of the DSEHE. The State institutions/ state-aided
institutions and private institutions would be funded through the
concerned State budget for the program. All public funded institutions
would receive program support as grants. Private institutions, will
receive support as a long term loan from the states.
7. Sustainability
The key sustainability issue is to ensure that the major policy and
management changes introduced by the Program are sustained and deepened,
and that the program is eventually extended to cover other institutions
that would be excluded in the initial stages. For this to occur, two
factors are important. First, institutions must become financially
sustainable so that the incremental recurrent expenditures can continue to
be financed and the beneficial effects of the proposed policy and
management changes can be seen in practice. Second, the major cultural
changes introduced by the Program must become internalized and ingrained
within institutions.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Program design has benefited from major recommendations in some
recent, relevant publications/policy notes of the Bank. These include:
Higher Education in Developing Countries: Perils and Promise (2000), World
Development Report -- Knowledge for Development (1999), Bank-ILO study on
Vocational Educational and Training Reforms: Matching Skills to Markets
and Budgets, Bank Reports - Constructing Knowledge Societies: New
Challenge for Tertiary Education (2002), and Science and Technology in
Development (2002) - (under finalization). The following lessons of
experience have been incorporated in the design of the Program: Borrower
ownership: Sustained commitment and participation of major stakeholders
are crucial to successful implementation. Political economy: This
warrants close attention by the Bank when determining the kind of changes
that are feasible in a country, and the role stakeholders and
beneficiaries should play in the process.System-wide approaches: The
degree of comprehensiveness of the Bank's support strategy is an important
predictor of outcome. Policy measures and investments which are not
integrated into a broad reform program on a global vision and strategy for
change are less likely to bear fruits.Reliance on incentives: The extent
to which projects rely on positive incentives rather than mandatory edicts
to stimulate change has a great influence on their outcomes, as
institutions tend to respond more readily to constructive stimuli.
Monitoring and evaluation: Governments should pay special attention to
monitoring and evaluation, which is often neglected in their preoccupation
with financing and the provision of training. The Program builds on the
experience gained and confidence developed through four projects in
technical education in introducing systemic reforms, although on a small
scale, in the Indian context. Some of the recommendations of the
Operations Evaluation Department (OED) Performance Audit Report on
Investment in Technical Education and Vocational Training in India, and
- 4 -



the major reform strategies suggested in the Bank's Sector study on
Scientific and Technical Manpower Development in India, are also taken
note of in the program design.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         No environmental issue is expected to arise as a
result of program implementation. The program would not support any
acquisition of land, construction of any new institution, or any major
physical expansion. Only some small constructions on the existing
institutional sites and/or rehabilitation of existing buildings would be
supported.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Shashi K. Shrivastava
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-5263
Fax: 202-477-6391
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
August 30, 2002.
-5-



