Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 3718 IN 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Technical/Engineering Education Quality Improvement Project) 
 
between 
 
INDIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated February 4, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3718 IN 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated February 4, 2003, between INDIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by the Borrower, and the Project States (as 
herein defined) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make part of the proceeds of the credit provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Credit) available to the Project States, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the 
Project States (the Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for 
any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the Charter of the United Nations.” 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
Page  3
-
2
-
(a) 
“BTE” means the Bureau of Technical Education within the Department 
of Secondary and Higher Education of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
“DSHE” means the Department of Secondary and Higher Education 
within the Ministry of Human Resource Development of the Borrower; 
 
(c) 
“Eligible Categories” means categories 1 through 6 set forth in the table 
in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(d) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services; 
 
(e) 
“Institutional Development Subproject” means an institutional project 
consisting of activities classified in Part A of the Project and which has been prepared 
and agreed in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the PIP for 
selection of institutional projects. 
 
(f) 
“MOU” means a memorandum of understanding to be entered into 
between an institution selected in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in 
the PIP and a Project State or the BTE, as appropriate, for Project implementation, and in 
form of the draft sample MOU annexed to the PIP; 
 
(g) 
“NPIU” means the National Project Implementation Unit established by 
the Borrower in accordance with paragraph 3 of Schedule 3 of this Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
the Project States of even date herewith, as
 
the same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement; 
 
(i) 
“Project Implementation Plan” or “PIP” means the Borrower’s 
implementation plan for the Project dated August 2002, including time-bound action 
plans, procedures and criteria for implementation of the Project, all as necessary, and 
agreed with the Association; 
 
(j) “Project
 
Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement;   
 
(k) 
“Project Institution” means a technical/engineering education institution, 
as defined in the PIP, duly selected for support under the Project and which has entered 
into an MOU for the purposes of Project implementation. 
 
(l) 
“Project States” means the following selected States of the Borrower: 
Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh 
and includes any successor or successors thereto and such other States of the Borrower as 
Page  4
-
3
-
the Borrower and the Association shall agree from time to time such States to be selected 
on the basis of the criteria set forth in the PIP; 
 
(m) 
“respective Part of the Project” means, in connection with the Borrower, 
activities to be carried out under Parts A and B of the Project pertaining to Project 
Institutions under the jurisdiction of the Borrower, and, in connection with the Project 
States, activities to be carried out under Parts A and B of the Project pertaining to Project 
Institutions under the jurisdiction of the Project States; 
 
(n) 
“SPFU” means the State Project Facilitation Unit established by each of 
the Project States in accordance with paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 of the Project 
Agreement; 
 
(o) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and 
 
(p) 
“Tribal Development Plan” means the Borrower’s
 
plan dated May 2002 
prepared to ensure that scheduled tribes and scheduled castes benefit from the activities 
financed under the Project and referred to in paragraph 8 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement; for the purposes of this definition the following terms have the following 
meanings: “Scheduled Castes” means the population groups specified as Scheduled 
Castes pursuant to Article 341 of the Constitution of India; and “Scheduled Tribes” 
means the population groups specified as Scheduled Tribes pursuant to Article 342 of the 
Constitution of India.  
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred eighty nine million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR189, 000,000).  
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15 commencing April 15, 2013, and ending October 15, 2037. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on October15, 2022, shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of 
each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling 
six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out 
in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, 
that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:  
 
(i) 
shall carry out its respective Part of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, and educational practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for its respective Part of the Project; and  
 
Page  7
-
6
-
(ii) 
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall cause the Project States 
to carry out their respective Part of the Project with due diligence 
and efficiency, in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial and educational practices and perform in accordance 
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the respective 
obligations of the Project States therein set forth, and, to this end, 
shall take and cause to be taken all actions, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable the Project States to perform 
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation to the provisions to paragraph (a) of this section, and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out its respective Part of the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Credit available to 
the Project States for their respective Part of the Project in accordance with the 
Borrower’s standard arrangements for development assistance to the States of India. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records 
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
States’ respective Part of the Project shall be carried out by the respective Project State 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: (i) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to 
the Association and furnish to the Association, not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Association and the Borrower, a plan for the future operation of the Project, such plan to 
consist of a consolidation of the Borrower’s own plan together with the plan submitted by 
the Project States to the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.03 (b) 
of the Project Agreement; and (ii) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to 
exchange views with the Borrower and the Project States on said plan. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of: (i) the departments 
and agencies of the Borrower responsible for the Project and of the Project Institutions
 
sponsored by the BTE, and (ii) the Project States responsible for carrying out their 
respective parts of the Project and of the Project Institutions sponsored by the Project 
States. 
 
(b)  
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure 
submitted during such Fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the necessary withdrawals; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in 
order to enable the Borrower, by January 1, 2004, or such later date as the Association 
shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which: 
 
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; 
 
(ii) 
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
(b) 
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.  
 
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
Any of the Project States shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that any of the Project States will be able to perform its obligations 
under the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that any event specified in paragraph (a) 
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that  the Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by each of the Project States, and is legally binding upon each 
Project State in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for 
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretary to the Government of India 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Department of Economic Affairs 
 
New Delhi, India 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
ECOFAIRS 953-3166175 
 
91113093404 
 New 
Delhi 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INDIA 
 
By  
   /s/ Adarsh Kishore 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  
 
 
 
 
  /s/ Michael F. Carter 
Country Director, India
 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Institutional Development 
175,400,000       
 
80% 
 Subprojects 
 
 
 
 
(2) 
Goods under Part B of 
480,000 
 
100% of foreign 
 the 
Project 
 
 
expenditures, 
 
100%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 80% of local 
 
expenditures for other 
 
items procured 
 
locally 
 
(3) Books 
and
 
120,000
100%
learning resources 
 
under Part B of the Project 
 
(4) 
Consultants’ Services 
733,000 
 
80% 
 
under Part B of the Project, 
 
including audit fees 
 
(5) 
Training and workshops 
1,060,000 
 
100%  
 
under Part B of the Project 
 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(6) 
Incremental Operating Costs 
2,680,000 
 
80% until 
 
under Part B of the Project 
 
 
December 31, 2004; 
 
65%
until 
 
December 31, 2006 
 
and 25% thereafter 
 
(7) Unallocated 
8,527,000
 
_________ 
 
TOTAL 189,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(c) 
the term “incremental  operating costs” means the costs of operation and 
maintenance of equipment and vehicles, office rental and expenses, hiring of vehicles, 
salaries and allowances of additional staff, and travel costs incurred for the purposes of 
carrying out the Project. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in: 
 
(a) 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR1,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after January 1, 2002; and 
 
(b) 
respect of an Institutional Development Subproject unless: (i) the 
Institutional Development Subproject has been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements set forth in the PIP; and (ii) an MOU has been entered into between the 
relevant Project Institution and a Project State or BTE in respect of such Institutional 
Development Subproject. 
 
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works under contracts not 
exceeding $300,000; (b) goods under contracts not exceeding $300,000 equivalent;  
(c) services under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for employment of 
consulting firms and $50,000 for employment of individual consultants, respectively;  
(d) books and learning resources; (e) training and workshops; and (f) Incremental 
Operating Costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account, in the 
Reserve Bank of India, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule; and 
 
(b) 
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report 
pursuant to Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this 
Schedule. 
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or 
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure. 
 
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement. 
Page  17
-
16 - 
 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex the term “Authorized Allocation” means an 
amount equivalent to $12,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, 
however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $6,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR30,000,000. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested. 
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 
of this Schedule to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
Page  18
-
17 - 
 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  19
-
18 - 
 
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
 
1. 
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the 
Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
2. 
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report. 
 
3. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the Project 
Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order 
to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such 
report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount 
indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, 
shall not exceed the equivalent of $50,000,000. 
Page  20
-
19 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to support production of high quality technical 
professionals through reforms in the technical/engineering education system in order to 
raise productivity and competitiveness of the Indian economy. The Project is part of a 
long-term pro
gram of the Borrower designed in pursuance of the Borrower’s National 
Policy on Education whose objective is to improve the quality of technical/engineering 
education including, inter alia, through: (i) creating an environment in which engineering 
education institutions can achieve their own goals for excellence and sustain the same; 
(ii) supporting Institutional Development Subprojects of competitively selected 
institutions to achieve higher levels of academic performance and relevance to the society 
and the economy, and (iii) supporting improvements in the system management capacity.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
Part A
:
Institutional Development
The carrying out of Institutional Development Subprojects comprising the 
following activities: 
 
(a) 
promotion of academic excellence including, among others, the 
following activities: 
 
(i) 
improvements in institutional governance and, management and 
administrative practices; 
 
(ii) 
improvements in teaching, training and learning facilities; 
 
(iii) 
improvements in curricular practices; 
 
(iv) 
faculty and staff development; 
 
(v) 
enhancement in postgraduate education and research, and 
consultancy activities; 
 
(vi) 
enhanced interaction with industry; and 
 
(vii) 
increased attention to equity issues. 
 
(b) 
networking of academic institutions for quality enhancement and 
resource sharing; and 
Page  21
-
20 - 
 
 
(c) 
enhancing quality and reach of academic services to community and 
economy. 
 
Part B:
System Management Capacity Improvement
Improving system management capacity through: 
 
(a)   
development of modern management practices through training of policy 
planners, managers and administrators from the central and participating State 
governments, and their bodies concerned with the management of technical/engineering 
education; 
 
(b)  
carrying out policy and system research studies at the State and national 
levels; 
 
(c)  
carrying out audits in respect of reforms, performance, quality and 
efficiency of Project Institutions; and 
 
(d)  
establishment of structures and facilities for Program management at the 
central and State levels. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007
.
Page  22
-
21 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
implement, through BTE, its respective Part of the Project in accordance 
with the Project Implementation Plan agreed with the Association, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision thereof if, in 
the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially or adversely 
affect the objectives or
 
implementation of the Project;  
 
(b) 
without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (a) above shall 
rigorously enforce the eligibility criteria for Project States set forth in the PIP and shall 
only allow for inclusion in the Project those States which adequately demonstrate 
preparedness to carry out all such reforms as are required by the eligibility criteria and 
which meet the criteria in all respects;  
 
(c) 
without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (a) above, shall, and 
shall cause Project States to, rigorously enforce the eligibility criteria for Project 
Institutions agreed between the Borrower and the Association set forth in the PIP and 
ensure that only institutions which meet the criteria in all material respects are considered 
under the Project; 
 
(d) 
ensure that the selection of Project Institutions to participate and benefit 
under the Project is transparent and in accordance with the agreed eligibility criteria and 
selection process set forth in the PIP; and 
 
(e) 
enter, through BTE, into MOU’s with institutions selected to become 
Project Institutions, as appropriate, for carrying out the Project and shall cause the Project 
institutions to carry out the Project in accordance with the obligations under the MOU 
and the PIP. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project States and BTE implement and sustain 
all measures required to be taken in accordance with the eligibility criteria and 
requirements set forth in the PIP throughout the period of Project implementation. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have in place a fully operational implementation unit with 
adequate staff and resources as provided in the PIP. 
 
4. 
The Borrower, through BTE, and jointly with the Project States: (i) by no later 
than March 31 in each year shall develop an annual training and study tour program (for 
the purposes of this paragraph “the Training Program”) for improvement of system 
management capacity at the central, state and institutional levels; (ii) shall provide by no 
later than April 30 in each year a copy of the Training Program to the Association; and 
Page  23
-
22 - 
 
(iii) shall thereafter implement the Training Program, taking into account the comments 
of the Association thereon; 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall provide to the Association: (a) semi-annually by no later than
 
April 30 and October 31
 
in each year, the findings of the independent performance, 
reforms, quality and efficiency audits carried out by each Project State and BTE in 
accordance with the PIP; and (b) within 3 months of receiving the results of the research 
studies being carried out by SPFUs and NPIU a copy of such research studies. 
 
6. 
The Borrower shall, through BTE, and together with the Project States and the 
Association undertake bi-annual reviews of Project implementation on the basis of 
performance indicators agreed with the Association, and, thereafter, shall implement the 
Project taking into account the results of such reviews. 
 
7. 
The Borrower shall, through BTE and the Project States, ensure that all Project 
Institutions implement the Tribal Development Plan to ensure that tribal and vulnerable 
groups benefit from Project activities. 
 
8. 
The Borrower, through NPIU, shall ensure that, as part of the selection process, a 
financial management evaluation of all institutions seeking to become Project Institutions 
and receive financing under the Project is carried out, such evaluation to be made on the 
basis of the financial management evaluation criteria set forth in the PIP. 
 
9. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators agreed with the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about September 30, 2005, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuance to paragraph (a) 
of this Section, on the progress achieved in carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by October 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
