Page  1
CONFORMED COPY     
CREDIT NUMBER  3718 IN 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Technical/Engineering Education Quality Improvement Project) 
 
among 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
STATE OF HARYANA 
STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH 
STATE OF KERALA 
STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 
STATE OF MAHARASHTRA 
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 
 
Dated February 4, 2003 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3718 IN 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated February 4, 2003, among INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and STATE OF HARYANA, 
STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, STATE OF KERALA, STATE OF MADHYA 
PRADESH, STATE OF MAHARASHTRA and STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH, each 
acting by its Governor. 
 
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between India (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred 
eighty nine million Special Drawing Rights (SDR189,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on conditions that the 
Project States agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth 
in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Project States, in consideration of the Association’s entering into 
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) The Project States declare their commitment to the objective of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out their respective Part of the Project, as appropriate, including through 
Page  4
-
2
-
the Project Institutions with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and educational practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association, the Borrower and the Project States shall otherwise agree, 
the Project States shall carry out their respective Part of the Project in accordance with 
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
the Project States shall provide prompt and adequate funding to the Project Institutions in 
a
timely manner and in four quarterly installments based on utilization reports to be 
submitted in accordance with the procedures set forth in the PIP. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
g
oods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) The Project States shall carry out and shall also ensure that their 
respective Project Institutions carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods 
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and their respective Part of the Project. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Project States shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Borrower, not later than four (4) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose among the Association, the Borrower and the Project 
States, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Borrower a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with them on the said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Project States shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of their respective Part 
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit. 
Page  5
-
3
-
(b) 
The Project States shall promptly inform the Association and the 
Borrower of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of 
their respective Part of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or 
the performance by the Project States of their respective obligations under this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Project States shall maintain financial management 
systems, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound financial 
management and accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures related 
to their respective Part of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Project States 
and the Project Institutions responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof. 
 
(b) 
The Project States shall: 
 
(i) 
have their records, accounts and financial statements referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each Fiscal Year audited, in 
accordance with auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;  
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year,  
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so audited, and  
(B) an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Project States shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
Page  6
-
4
-
paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 in order to enable the Project States, by January 1, 2004, or 
such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management 
Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which: 
 
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for their 
respective Part of the Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for their respective Part of the Project for 
the six-month period following the period covered by said report, 
and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report; 
 
(ii) 
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation by the 
respective SPFUs and Project Institutions, both cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under their respective Part of 
the Project and expenditures under contracts financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by 
said report. 
 
(b) 
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Project States shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of the 
Project States thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
Page  7
-
5
-
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
 
(ii) 
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify the Project States of this event. 
 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or 
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have 
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The 
addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
For State of Haryana: 
 
Principal Secretary (Technical Education) 
 
Government of Haryana 
 
Haryana Civil Secretariat, Sector 
–
1
Chandigarh – 160 017 
 
Haryana 
 
Telephone: 
   Facsimile: 
 
91-172-740009 
   91-172-746640 
 
For State of Himachal Pradesh: 
 
Secretary (Technical Education) 
 
Government of Himachal Pradesh 
 
H.P. Secretariat 
 
Armsdale Building 
 
Shimla – 171 002 
 
Himachal Pradesh 
 
Telephone: 
   Facsimile: 
 
91-177-220105 
   91-177-220105, 
221154 
 
For State of Kerala: 
 
Principal Secretary (Higher Education) 
 
Government of Kerala, Government Secretariat 
 
Thiruvananthapuram – 695 001 
 
Kerala 
 
Telephone: 
   Facsimile: 
 
91-471-333439, 
518568 
  91-471-333439 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
For State of Madhya Pradesh: 
 
Secretary 
 
Government of Madhya Pradesh 
 
Technical Education & Manpower 
 
Planning Department 
 
Vallabh Bhawan 
 
Bhopal 
–
462
004 
 
Madhya Pradesh 
 
Telephone: 
   Facsimile: 
 
91-755-551916 
   91-755-554912 
 
For State of Maharashtra: 
 
Principal Secretary (Higher and Technical Education) 
 
Government of Maharashtra 
 
Room No. 411, Mantralaya Annexe 
 
Mumbai – 400 032 
 
Maharashtra 
 
Telephone: 
   Facsimile: 
 
91-22-2025301 
   91-22-2022606, 
2882664 
 
For State of Uttar Pradesh: 
 
Secretary 
 
Technical Education Department 
 
Government of Uttar Pradesh 
 
Sachivalaya 
 
Lucknow – 226 001 
 
Telephone: 
   Facsimile: 
 
91-522-238668 
   91-522-237616 
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of each of the 
Project States, may be taken or executed by its Chief Secretary or such other person or 
Page  10
-
8
-
persons as the concerned Project State shall designate in writing, and each of the Project 
States shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
    /s/ 
Michael 
F. 
Carter 
 
Country Director, India 
 
STATE OF HARYANA 
 
By 
 
    /s/ 
Dharam 
Vir 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH 
 
By 
 
    /s/ 
Sudripto 
Roy 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
STATE OF KERALA 
 
By 
 
    /s/ 
K. 
Mohandas 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  12
-
10 - 
 
STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 
 
By 
 
     
/s/ 
R. 
Parasuram 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
STATE OF MAHARASHTRA 
 
By 
 
     
/s/ 
B.S. 
Meena 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 
 
By 
 
     
/s/ 
P.C. 
Chaturvedi 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  13
-
11 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Procurement and Consultants
’
Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of    
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I. 
 
Part B
:
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods estimated to cost 
$300,000 or more per contract, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and Paragraph 5 of Appendix I thereto. 
 
Part C:
Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works to be carried out under an Institutional Development Subproject and 
estimated to cost $50,000 or more per contract and equipment estimated to cost more 
than $50,000 equivalent per contract but less then $300,000 equivalent may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures agreed with the Association. 
 
2. 
National and International  Shopping
Vehicles, equipment and furniture estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.  
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
The following items estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount of $10,000,000 
equivalent may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines: 
 
Page  14
-
12 - 
(a) 
equipment which is of a proprietary nature and is estimated to cost less 
than $20,000 equivalent per contract; 
 
(b) 
books and learning resources estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, and 
 
(c) 
small items estimated to cost less than $500 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent. 
 
4. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works to be carried out under an Institutional Development Subproject and 
estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract may: 
 
(i) 
be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis 
of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed 
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be 
made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the 
contract successfully; 
 
(ii) 
be procured under the unit/piece rate systems through qualified 
contractors; or 
 
(iii) 
as a last resort, be carried out by force account provided such works meet 
the requirements of the provisions of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.  
 
Page  15
-
13 - 
 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $300,000 or more; (b) the first contract for goods by each SPFU, the NPIU 
and the Project Institutions procured under national competitive bidding procedures, 
regardless of the value of such contract; and (c) the first contract for works by each 
Project Institution procured under national competitive bidding procedures, regardless of 
the value of such contract, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1. 
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997, January 1999, and May 2002 subject to the modifications 
thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A of this Section II (the Consultant 
Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 2.13 through 2.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for procurement of works and goods including 
procurement planning and development of technical specifications, estimated to cost less 
than $500,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely of national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  16
-
14 - 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for academic aspects of Institutional Development Subprojects 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for conduct of performance, reforms, quality and efficiency audits and 
for policy research studies estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
Page  17
-
15 - 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, and for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more, the terms of 
reference of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  18
-
16 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
The Project States shall: implement the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Plan agreed with the Association and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no Project State shall amend or waive any provision thereof if, in the 
opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely 
affect the implementation of the Project. 
 
2. 
Throughout the duration of the Project, the Project States shall conform with the 
requirements of the eligibility criteria for Project States set forth in the PIP and, without 
limitation to the generality of the foregoing, shall sustain and implement the necessary 
measures required in accordance with such eligibility criteria in a manner satisfactory to 
the Borrower and the Association. 
 
3. 
In respect of their respective Part of the Project, each Project State shall: 
 
(a) 
recommend to a national screening committee established by the 
Borrower for such purpose institutions that meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the 
PIP; 
 
(b) 
enter into an MOU with each institution selected for Project 
implementation and shall ensure that the Project institution carry out the Project in 
accordance with the obligations under the MOU and the PIP; and 
 
(c) 
ensure that Project Institutions implement the agreed institutional 
reforms under the Project in accordance with the provisions of the PIP. 
 
4.  
(a)  
Each Project State shall, at all times, have in place a fully operational 
SPFU with qualified staff in adequate numbers and sufficient resources to oversee Project 
implementation in the Project State; and  
 
(b) the Project States shall ensure, through timely and adequate review and 
supervision, that the SPFU effectively and efficiently performs its assigned functions in a 
satisfactory manner to implement the Project. 
 
5. 
Each Project State shall promptly inform the Borrower and the Association of 
activities being carried out under the Project. 
 
6. 
Each Project State shall semi-annually by no later than April 30 and October 31 
in each year commission an independent audit on the performance in Institutional 
Page  19
-
17 - 
Development Subproject implementation, implementation of reforms, quality of 
education, training and services, and administrative and managerial efficiency of each of 
its Project Institutions in accordance with the PIP and promptly release the results 
together with a copy of the audit to each institution and the NPIU. 
 
7. 
Each Project State shall, together with the Borrower, through BTE, and the 
Association, undertake semi-annual reviews on the basis of performance indicators 
agreed with the Association. 
 
8. 
The Project States shall ensure implementation of the Tribal Development Plan 
by each of their respective Project Institutions to ensure that those identified in the Tribal 
Development Plan benefit from Project activities. 
 
9. 
The Project States shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable them to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators agreed with the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about September 30, 2005, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association and the Borrower, by October 31, 2005, or 
such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Borrower and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
 
