                                  Document of
                                the World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR00001194



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (IDA-37180)



                                     ON A

                                   CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR162.5 MILLION
                         (US$ 250 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF INDIA

                                    FOR A

   TECHNICAL/ENGINEERING EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT



                               September 24, 2009




Human Development Sector
India
South Asia Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective March 30, 2009)

                Currency Unit = Indian National Rupee (INR)
                          INR100.00 = US$ 2.38
                           US$ 1.00 = INR 42

                              FISCAL YEAR
                             April 1 ­ March 31


                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AICTE   All India Council for Technical Education
BOG     Board of Governors
BTE     Bureau of Technical Education
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CFI     Centrally Financed Institution
CIP     Concise Institutional Proposal
DSHE    Department of Secondary and Higher Education
FM      Financial Management
FMR     Financial Management Report
FY      Fiscal Year
GOI     Government of India
IAMR    Institute of Applied Manpower and Research
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results Report
IIT     Indian Institute of Technology
INR     Indian National Rupee
IRG     Internal Revenue Generation
IRR     Internal Rate of Return
ISR     Implementation Status and Results Report
JRM     Joint Review Mission
KPI     Key Performance Indicator
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MDP     Management Development Program
MHRD    Ministry of Human Resource Development
MOU     Memorandum of Understanding
MTR     Mid-Term Review
NBA     National Board of Accreditation
NPE     National Policy of Education
NPIU    National Project Implementation Unit
NTMIS   National Technical Manpower Information System
OBC     Other Backward Classes
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project Development Objective
PG      Post-graduate
R&D     Research and Development
SC      Scheduled Caste
SDR     Special Drawing Rights
SIL     Specific Investment Loan
SPFU    State Project Facilitation Unit
ST      Scheduled Tribe
TEQIP   Technical Education Quality Improvement Project
TDP     Tribal Development Plan
TTTI    Technical Teachers' Training Institutes
UG      Undergraduate
UGC     University Grants Commission


                       Vice President: Isabel Guerrero
                     Country Director: N. Roberto Zagha
                      Sector Manager: Amit Dar
                 Project Team Leader: Andreas Blom
                    ICR Team Leader: Sangeeta Goyal
                             INDIA
  TECHNICAL/ENGINEERING EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (TEQIP)




                                                     CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 6
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 11
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 12
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 15
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 16
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 17
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 18
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 27
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 29
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 31
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 36
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 37
  Annex 8. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ...................... 53
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 54
  Annex 10: Further Findings from the TEQIP Experience ............................................ 55
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Technical/Engineering
Country:                India                   Project Name:             Education Quality
                                                                          Improvement Project
Project ID:             P072123                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-37180
ICR Date:               09/29/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          INDIA
Original Total
                        XDR 189.0M              Disbursed Amount:         XDR 161.9M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 162.5M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Human Resource Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/16/2001     Effectiveness:                               03/12/2003
Appraisal:            06/28/2002     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             11/14/2002     Mid-term Review:           10/31/2005        12/09/2005
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2008        03/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     2                      1
Sub-national government administration                                1                      1
Tertiary education                                                    97                  98


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for the knowledge economy                                   67                  70
Other social development                                              33                  30

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:          N. Roberto Zagha                     Michael F. Carter
Sector Manager:            Amit Dar                             Michelle Riboud
Project Team Leader:       Andreas Blom                         Shashi K. Shrivastava
ICR Team Leader:           Sangeeta Goyal
ICR Primary Author:        Sangeeta Goyal


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
 To support the production of high quality technical professionals through reforms in the
technical/engineering education system in order to raise the productivity and
competitiveness of the Indian economy

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was never revised during the life of the project.



                                                ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                                 Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                    approval         Target        Completion or
                                                  documents)         Values        Target Years
                  Percentage of high quality graduates/ post graduates in relevant and cutting edge
Indicator 1 :
                  technologies
                                                                                1. Graduates in
                                                                                cutting edge
                  1. Graduates in cutting                                       technologies: 51%;
                  edge technologies: 35%;                                       2. Number of Post-
Value             2. Number of Post           50% increase over                 graduates (total):
quantitative or   graduates (total): 6000; baseline by 2007-                    11,158; 3. Number
Qualitative)      3. Number of Doctorates 08                                    of Doctorates
                  awarded(total): 250.                                          awarded (total):
                  during 2003-04                                                587 during
                                                                                academic year
                                                                                2007-08.
Date achieved     06/30/2004                  03/31/2009                        03/31/2009
                  Targets for all three indicators for PDO 1 has been achieved or over-achieved
Comments
                  (98% for graduates in cutting edge technologies; 172% for number of total post-
(incl. %
                  graduates; and 270% of the target for the total number of doctorates awarded in
achievement)
                  an academic year)
Indicator 2 :     Increased involvement of institutions with community and economy
                                              Significant:                      Number of
                  Low: No. of programs=
Value                                         Programs= 3000;                   Programs=5005;
                  450;
quantitative or                               Beneficiaries=350                 Number of
                  No of beneficiaries= 4000
Qualitative)                                  00.                               Beneficiaries=251,0
                  during 2003-04
                                              during 2007-08                    91 during 2007-08.
Date achieved     06/30/2004                  03/31/2009                        03/31/2009
Comments
                167% of the target for number of programs achieved; and more than 700% of the
(incl. %
                target for the number of beneficiaries achieved.
achievement)
                Percentage of graduates employed within one year of graduation/ average annual
Indicator 3 :
                salary
Value
quantitative or 55%; INR 150,000;          85%; not defined.               76% ; INR 290,000.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2003                   03/31/2009                      03/31/2009
Comments        Employment rate (90% of target achieved) has been measured by campus
(incl. %        employment which is an underestimate of the overall employment rate; Average
achievement) annual salary has nearly doubled.




                                                 iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                             Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                               Revised
                                               approval                         Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                              documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 : Increased professional output (publications, patents, R&D, etc)
                1. Professional
                                                                             1. Professional
                Publications: 3800;
                                                                             publications: 6766;
Value           2. Patents: 10;
                                                                             2. Patents: 28;
(quantitative   3. R&D Products           100% increase
                                                                             3. R & D products
or Qualitative) commercialised: 20
                                                                             commercialized: 74
                                                                             during 2008-09
                during 2003-04
Date achieved 06/30/2004                  03/31/2009                         03/31/2009
Comments
                78% of target achieved for professional publications; 180% of target achieved for
(incl. %
                patents; and 270% of target achieved for R & D products.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Joint Programs and activities with networked institutions
                                                                             Joint R & D: 302;
                                                                             Joint Consultancy:
Value                                                                        262; Joint
                                          Significant - target
(quantitative   Negligible                                                   Publications: 1354;
                                          undefined.
or Qualitative)                                                              Joint Programs for
                                                                             PG courses and
                                                                             PhD: 910
Date achieved 06/30/2003                  03/31/2009                         03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Significant achievement in terms of numbers of networking activities undertaken
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                         IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     02/11/2003         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     06/23/2003         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      6.00
  3     12/01/2003         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      6.17
  4     05/26/2004         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      6.21
  5     11/29/2004         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      6.50
                            Moderately                 Moderately
  6     02/22/2005                                                                       6.90
                          Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory
                            Moderately                 Moderately
  7     08/23/2005                                                                      19.45
                          Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory
  8     01/19/2006     Moderately Satisfactory         Satisfactory                     39.57
  9     07/13/2006     Moderately Satisfactory         Satisfactory                     83.30
 10     01/26/2007     Moderately Satisfactory         Satisfactory                    123.08


                                               iv
 11    04/23/2007         Satisfactory           Satisfactory          146.63
 12    10/11/2007         Satisfactory           Satisfactory          194.64
 13    04/16/2008         Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory   225.14
 14    10/06/2008         Satisfactory           Satisfactory          240.56
 15    03/30/2009         Satisfactory           Satisfactory          242.97


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                         v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
The Technical/Engineering Education Quality Improvement Project (TEQIP) was prepared during the
time of the 9th Five Year Plan (1997-2002) in India whose key themes were strengthening the
environment for development and sustainable growth and supporting critical interventions of special
benefit to the poor and the disadvantaged. This included strengthening governance systems and
enabling the private sector to contribute to long term economic growth. This was a period of
improving economic growth for India (>8%) after its liberalization in 1991, its transformation towards
a more knowledge-based economy, and increasing engagement with the world economy. For
sustaining economic growth, the country had to ensure the competitiveness of its industry in the
global market place. This would demand high quality skilled manpower to promote entrepreneurial
growth in new fields of industrial endeavor, to improve the productivity of Indian industry in both
manufacturing and services.

Rationale for Bank Involvement: According to the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS 2002) for
India, the bottlenecks constraining growth in India included a shortage of appropriately skilled and
trained personnel. Although India had one of the largest stocks of scientists, engineers, and
technicians, the quality of their training from many institutions below the premier institutions such as
the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) was poor. The publicly funded institutions and universities
providing Science and Technology (S & T) education in India were mostly not able to maintain high
standards of education or to keep pace with developments in knowledge and technology (World Bank
Report No. 20416-IN, September 2000). Keeping the above in view, the Bank Group focused on
promoting policy and institutional reforms in the area of technical education covering both public and
private institutions to improve the quality of India's pool of technical manpower.

Also, the National Policy of Education (NPE 1986, revised in 1992) of India had identified a set of
reforms for the higher education system in the governance and financing of institutions, promotion of
excellence through competitive funding, networking of institutions for better utilization of resources,
closer interaction with local community and economy, and improved capacity of system management.
Combining the thrust of the CAS with the recommendations of the NPE, TEQIP was designed to
introduce and implement these reforms in the existing technical education system. TEQIP was also
designed to be the first of a sequence of support to this sector, with the objective of eventually moving
the production possibilities frontier of the economy outward, and to create the basis for continuous
technological up-gradation of the industrial and service economic sectors.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
TEQIP's PDO was "to support the production of high quality technical professionals through reforms
in the technical/engineering education system in order to raise productivity and competitiveness of the
Indian economy." The following key performance indicators were selected to monitor TEQIP and
evaluate its achievements:

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
 Improved employment rate and earnings of graduates from participating institutions
 Increased cooperation and resource sharing between institutions
 Improved internal efficiency of the engineering education system
 Increased involvement of institutions with communities

Output Indicators:
 Increased number of postgraduates/research scholars in engineering
 Increased professional outputs (publications, products, designs, patents, etc.) from participating
   institutions
 Number of joint research, design and development projects, consultancies, training programs etc.,
   conducted by participating institutions

                                                   1
    Increased revenue generation from outreach programs and services (as a percentage of annual
    recurring expenditure)
    Increased availability of well-trained system/institution managers

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
 The PDO and KPIs were not revised at any time during Project life.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The main beneficiaries of the Project were the students, faculty and staff in 109 engineering education
institutions in 13 Indian states and 18 Centrally Funded Institutions (National Institutes of Technology
- NITs and NIFFT). Additionally, the Project also benefitted the local community, industry and the
private sector and the state and central government departments for technical education. The Project
also benefited the sector by making available more potential faculty members, enhanced capacity to
do R & D, formal and informal networking between institutions, and building management capacity at
the central and state levels. Ultimately, the larger economy benefitted as the supply and quality of
technical/engineering graduates increased.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The PDO was to be achieved through two components:

Institutional Development: This component comprised of three sub-components, namely (i)
promoting academic excellence; (ii) networking institutions for quality enhancement and resource
sharing; and (iii) enhancing quality and reach of services to the community and the economy. Under
this component, qualifying institutions were to be selected as a `lead' or a `network' institution and
then were to compete with other eligible applicant institutions through specific sub-projects.

System Management Capacity Improvement: This component supported (i) developing a modern
management style through training of policy planners, managers, and administrators from the central
and participating state governments; (ii) conducting studies at the state and national levels, the
findings of which would be used to improve policy and decision-making processes, and implementing
reforms; (iii) enhancing performance, quality and efficiency of state audits of institutions; and (iv)
establishing structures and facilities for program management at the central and state levels.

1.6 Revised Components
No revision of components took place during Project life.

1.7 Other significant changes
Originally all states were invited to participate, but only six states met the eligibility criteria and
joined the Project in 2003. A year later seven more states met the conditions and submitted their
proposals - undergoing due appraisal process ­ and their Project Agreements were declared effective
in 2004.

Nearly US$ 40 million (14.3%) was diverted to aid the Tsunami disaster victims that struck the
southern coast of India in December 2004; however the impact on results was protected due to
depreciation of INR towards the SDR which kept the INR Project amount nearly the same as before.

The closing date was extended by 9 months with the revised close date set as March 31, 2009. The
extension for the Project was justified to give it time to complete remaining activities keeping in view
the initial delays, and to strengthen implementation capacity for the expected second phase of TEQIP.
Project management structures at the central and state levels ­ the NPIU and the SPFUs continued to
be sustained and strengthened for implementation of the second phase.




                                                   2
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
TEQIP was an ambitious project, and prepared over a period of 22 months. This was the first World
Bank project in higher education in India. However, it was preceded by three successful projects in
the technician education sector. The basis for discussions on project design was the National Policy of
Education (1986, 1992) and the intentions of the Government of India as stated in the 9th Five Year
Plan (1997-2002). The strengths and weaknesses of the technical education sector identified by a
Bank study "Scientific and Technical Manpower Development in India (World Bank Report Number
2041 6-IN, Sept. 2000)" provided the analytical underpinnings for project design.

The Project was designed following detailed consultations with and inputs from state secretaries and
directors of technical education, principals and faculty and students of Regional Engineering Colleges
and other engineering colleges and polytechnics, the Technical Teachers' Training Institutes (TTTIs)
and National Technical Manpower Information System (NTMIS) in the Institute for Applied
Manpower & Research (IAMR), the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), the National
Board of Accreditation (NBA), the Planning Commission, and industry and community
representatives.

Project design included the use of investment funds to stimulate institutional reforms, i.e. have
elements of policy reforms within a SIL with a strong focus on quality and relevance of education,
lack of which was increasingly became a bottleneck in the Indian economy. Key institutional reforms
promoted by the Project included granting of significant academic, financial, managerial and
administrative autonomy, changing the pattern of non-plan (recurrent) funding to block grant,
encouraging the establishment of corpus, depreciation, staff development and maintenance funds, and
encouraging increasing cost recovery through internal revenue generation. Only those states and
institutions that met the reforms-based eligibility criteria were allowed to participate. The Project also
focused on increased intake into Post-Graduate (PG) programs and support to Faculty Development,
thereby responding to a need that grew into a major shortcoming of the sector during its life. The
motivating philosophy guiding the Project was a long-term perspective (15 years) for implementing
and sustaining a reform and it put at the fore-front a bottom-up approach of building capacity within
the institutions for leadership and asking States to give an enabling environment to this leadership.

No formal Quality Enhancement Review (QER) was done at the time of project design as it was not a
requirement at the time the project was prepared but it was peer reviewed by senior Bank experts and
the task team took particular cognizance of practices, experience, risks and lessons learnt from the
substantial amount of Bank experience supporting tertiary education reforms in Argentina, Chile,
Indonesia, Jordan, Romania and Vietnam (performance-based funding, accreditation and management
information systems), Brazil (competitive finding and science and technology research), China
(renewal and restructuring of science and engineering disciplines and the finding of innovative forms
of cooperation, which include partnerships and networks of institutions).

Overall, quality at entry was adequate. However, for a reform based project, there were likely to be
political economy, and institutional hurdles, some of which could have been anticipated during the
design phase.

2.2 Implementation
Overall, Project implementation was satisfactory. Participation in the Project was voluntary for
states and institutions. All states were invited to participate by the GOI in 2002 and 2003. Project
agreement was signed with 13 states in two stages ­ with Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala,
Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh in March 2003; and with Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat,
Jharkhand, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand and West Bengal in July 2004. 132 institutions were
chosen through proposal based competition from 300 applicants in two cycles in 2003 and 2004. Later


                                                    3
5 institutions either dropped out or were dropped leaving the final tally to 127 which included 18
Centrally Funded Institutions (CFIs), 57 state financed institutions, 11 state aided institutions, 19
government polytechnics and 22 private institutions. The number of institutions finally covered under
the Project was almost double of the number initially proposed. This increased the reach of the
reforms and spread the benefits to a larger number of institutions, but reduced the allocation to each
institution, thereby reducing their incentives to undertake reforms.

There were delays in implementation in the first two years and the Project was rated as a problem
project in March 2005 ("Moderately Unsatisfactory"). Factors that led to delays included: (a) general
elections in India in 2004 which slowed down implementation activities; (b) delays in the formation
of the National and State Steering Committees which were to oversee and guide project
implementation; (c) inadequate staffing of the NPIU and SPFUs which remained a problem through
the Project; (d) states did not make adequate budget provisions on time in the initial period; (e)
reluctance on the part of states to undertake reforms despite agreements initially which led to delays
in states complying with the legal covenants under the Project; and (f) considerable revisions to the
institutional proposals of Project institutions took place before they could be finalized.

The Project however has to be commended for picking up tremendously from this point on to acquire
a satisfactory rating in the final ISR. Following a meeting held by the Education Secretary in August
2005 during which all states and institutions were strongly advised to implement the Project as per
agreements, the Project started to return on the path to progress. Based on the progress achieved by
the Mid-Term Review (MTR)/Fourth Joint Review Mission in Nov-Dec 2005, the Project was
upgraded to "Moderately Satisfactory" in PDO and "Satisfactory" in implementation. The states
renewed their commitments to the reforms, and by the time of the 5th JRM in January 2006, states had
significantly complied with the legal agreements, disbursement improved from 3.6% in June 2005 to
17%. Staffing of the NPIU and SPFUs improved. Additionally, 70 experts were appointed by the
NPIU and SPFUs as mentors to assist project institutions in implementation. Financial management
and procurement requirements under TEQIP, a multi-state project with 127 institutions and a
decentralized procurement design, were challenging, which were reasonably met. Fiduciary
performance is discussed in detail in section 2.4.

In terms of Project components, the following faced considerable implementation difficulties: (a)
legal ­ compliance of two critical conditions (grant of adequate autonomy and release of funds to
institutions as block grants) lagged in most states due to administrative hurdles from the affiliating
universities and finance departments of states; (b) Project sub-components ­ there was lack of clarity
on the concepts of the sub-components of "Networking" and "Services to Community and Economy"
and implementation was very slow; and (c) reforms ­ similarly, there was lack of clarity on the
reforms to be introduced under the Project by the institutions. With respect to management capacity
building in project institutions, the objective was not fully fleshed out and inadequate attention was
paid to it by the project institutions. Some key officers and senior faculty were sent for training but a
long-term vision could have further strengthened organizational change. Also, faculty vacancies in
project institutions were filled very slowly. This meant over-burdening of existing faculty members
who were responsible for implementation in addition to their on-going academic responsibilities.
Implementation of Project sub-components and reforms improved over time with support from the
joint review missions and mentors.

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Monitoring and Evaluation in the Project is rated as "Satisfactory". The Project was intensively
monitored, generating valuable information. There was however scope for paying more
attention to the quality of data collected, and to collect data on quality aspects of the Project.
The PDO of the Project was clear though ambitiously worded in scope. Project design followed a
logical-framework approach, and key performance indicators and intermediate outcome indicators
were defined for the PDO, each component and sub-component of the Project respectively. Indicators
chosen were closely linked to their referents, and were in most cases specific and measurable. Data on

                                                   4
most indicators were regularly collected. Base-line data was not collected for the Project a priori
because of competitive selection of participating institutions after Project effectiveness. It became
available from the second year of the Project after the group of participating institutions became final.
It is likely that estimates at the national or other representation level for KPIs which could have been
used provisional base-line data was hard to collect.

The Project was regularly monitored at different levels. Quarterly review meetings were undertaken
by state secretaries and the National Project Director (NPD). Ten bi-annual Joint Review Missions
(JRMs) by the GOI, the Bank and state officials took place during Project duration. National and
international experts were also made part of the JRM. Mechanisms and processes were established for
monitoring key dimensions of the Project including reforms, activities, quality and
administrative/managerial efficiency audits, compliance with MOU conditions and implementation of
the Tribal Development Plan (TDP). Institutions also prepared quarterly reports on progress in project
and reforms implementation, internal audits and compliance with conditions of Memorandum Of
Understanding (MOU) and submitted the same to their respective Board Of Governors (BOG) and
SPFU (in case of centrally funded institutions to the Bureau of Technical Education (BTE) in the
Department of Secondary and Higher Education (DSHE) of Ministry of Human Resources
Development (MHRD), GOI. On-going formative evaluation activities were made part of Project M
& E through a team of mentors/auditors, who were accomplished professors and administrators in the
technical education field, and through student and faculty satisfaction surveys. Findings from all the
audits were actively used by all institutions to make improvements.

Project M & E while intensive could have gained further from ensuring that data did not suffer from
double counting, for example those pertaining to joint activities between institutions. Quantitative
data if complemented with qualitative case-studies would have helped capture `quality' aspects; as
most indicators captured only magnitude ("numbers of...") or binary information ("Yes/No") in case
of reforms. Furthermore, an impact evaluation built ex-ante into Project design would have allowed
the estimation of outcomes attributable to the Project with greater confidence.

 2.3 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguards compliance was "Satisfactory" under the Project. Two safeguard policies were
triggered by the Project ­ Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) and Indigenous Peoples (then OD
4.20, now OP 4.10). No environmental risks were forecast for the Project at appraisal (category "C"
project). Consequently, no environment assessment was undertaken. For indigenous people, a Tribal
Development Plan covering the needs of faculty and students belonging to Scheduled Castes (SC) and
Scheduled Tribes (ST) was prepared by GOI. Institutions provided details of activities to be
undertaken under the Tribal Development Plan (TDP) in their proposals which were monitored for
compliance regularly in all the joint review missions. Activities included establishment of book banks
for students belonging to the SC/ST/OBC categories, special remedial classes, guidance for taking
entrance exams, counseling, communication and soft skills, preparation for job interviews and
language labs. More than 1700 such activities were carried out during the life of the Project and
benefitted a sizable number of students (a total of 0.2 million participations took place in these
activities with students attending multiple activities).

The Project's fiduciary compliance is rated as "Satisfactory". This rating is based on the overall
Project performance on Financial Management (FM) and Procurement. Fiduciary compliance was a
challenging task, as expenditure under the Project was to take place largely in a decentralized manner
in more than a hundred institutions in 13 states, and in 18 Centrally Funded Institutions.

The Project has performed reasonably well considering the scope of FM tasks. States and the NPIU
were to submit consolidated audit reports every year under the Project (a total of 14 annual audits).
Generally, Annual Audit reports were received regularly and timely. Suggestions made by auditors in
these reports helped strengthen the Project's FM system. In the earlier years, there were discrepancies
between the audit reports and the format features agreed upon; these were smoothed out and the


                                                   5
quality of reporting improved considerably over time. The Project was (a) guided by a comprehensive
FM manual which was revised during 2006-07; and (b) FMR based reporting was generally timely
and accurate; though the Project used SOEs as a basis for disbursement. On the other hand, NPIU
capacity has been a concern in the last year of the Project when the position of the Consultant Finance
position remained vacant. Also, in the initial stages of the Project, regular training was provided to
Project participants; however, since 2005 training became inadequate and did not respond to staff
changes and/or new institutions.

Procurement also remained a challenge for the Project for the first few years, given the scope. Post-
procurement reviews carried out since 2006-07 to 2008-09 showed improvements in procurement
management, oversight and supervision over time. Initial post-procurement review of 550 (out of
4500) contracts of 2005-06 in all Project states and of a select sample of CFIs and state institutions
recorded serious deviations from procurement guidelines such as: (a) unjustified splitting of contracts
by some institutions, (b) inadequate recording of reasons for rejection of lower bids, (c) long delays in
settlement of payments, (d) the Bank's approval not sought for rejecting all bids and rebidding, and
(e) possible use of fraudulent practice by some contractors in local shopping.. Based on a post-review
of civil-works, claims submitted by one institution in Karnataka were withdrawn due to unacceptable
deficiencies. The issues were discussed with all the SPFUs and NPIU, and a fiduciary workshop
conducted in 2008 addressed the causes for deviation and a self-audit system for procurement by
SPFUs and NPIU was introduced. As a result, post-procurement review of 2007-08 conducted in 4
states and 3 CFIs showed significant improvement in overall management with deviations reported in
less than 15% of sampled contracts. A post-review conducted in 2008-09 in 6 states and 8 CFIs
covering 350 contracts showed even fewer deviations and no case of misappropriation. The main
procurement challenge for the Project was ensuring consistency in processes and procedures followed
by a large number of participating institutions spread across the country and the inadequate capacity at
the SPFU level to provide appropriate technical support and effective supervision. The NPIU has to
be commended for its efforts at capacity building in the last 2 years which have resulted in positive
outcomes and the Project achieving a `satisfactory' rating for procurement.

2.4 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
TEQIP is the first of a series of Projects for the long term reform of the technical education
sector of the GOI. The second phase of support to the sector is currently under preparation and is
likely to become effective in January 2010. The second Project which incorporates the lessons learned
from the first phase will extend the key successful features of the first Project to states and institutions
not covered under the first phase, including economically lagging states. In response to a growing
need in technical/engineering education sector, the second Project will also lay great emphasis on
faculty development, post-graduate education, and research and development and innovation. The
NPIU and SPFUs established under the first Project remain operational for the period between the end
of the first Project and start of the second. Akin to the first Project, participation in the second phase
by states and institutions will be voluntary and selection of institutions from eligible states will be
competitive. The second phase of TEQIP will maintain the long-term focus on reform implementation
and capacity building at the institutional, state and national levels.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The Project was highly relevant. The Project design supported reforms based investment that made
the institutions more autonomous and accountable to their self-determined goals of excellence. It
responded to the country's need for excellence in engineering education and facilitated the production
of skills increasingly being demanded by the growing sectors of the economy such as IT and IT based
services, telecommunications and pharmaceuticals. It focused on quality based employability of
undergraduate education, up-scaling and upgrading of PG education with view to filling faculty needs,
and promoted demand-driven R &D.



                                                     6
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The Project performed satisfactorily in the achievement of its overall Project Development
Objective (PDO) which was "increase in the production of high quality graduates". There was a
strong positive trend in all the outcome/impact and output indicators. This section will (a)
examine the achievement of the three key performance indicators and two intermediate outcome
indicators specified in the PAD and the ISRs, (b) summarize the achievements of outputs by
components, and (c) assess the link between outputs and outcomes. A more detailed description of
Project outcomes and outputs by components is provided in Annex 2.

Achievement of PDO: KPIs and Intermediate Outcomes
PDO 1: Increase in the percentage of high quality graduates/post-graduates in relevant and cutting
edge technologies. By the end of the Project, there was a significant increase in the share of students
graduating with honors/distinction. Between 2003-04 and 2007-08, the share of students passing with
high grades increased to 50% for UG and 51% for PG from their base-lines of 35% and 36%
respectively, thereby attaining 100% of target.

PDO 2: Increased involvement of institutions with community and economy. More than 1887
programs were conducted by project institutions for the local community, the unorganized labor force
and industrial workers, benefitting nearly 0.18 million people during 2007-08. This was an
improvement of 471% for number of programs and 4500% for number of beneficiaries over the base-
line (during 2003-04) and 63% and 514% achievements of the targets set respectively. The shortfall in
achieving the first target and the over-achievement of the second target was due to fewer programs
covering a large number of beneficiaries were undertaken. Over the Project period, 1,288 technologies
were also transferred to the community.

PDO 3: Percentage of graduates employed within one year of graduation/Average Annual Salary
Campus placement rates, used here as a lower bound indicator for overall employment rate, nearly
doubled for UG students, from 41% to 76% (89% of the target) and more than doubled from 25% to
56% (66% of the target) for PG students. The average annual salary for those employed through
campus placement increased 74% in nominal terms for UG students and 88% for PG students. In real
terms, salaries increased 40% and 51%, for UG and PG students respectively. Improvements in
employment rates and wages were supported by a booming Indian economy.

Intermediate Outcome Indicator 1: Increased professional output (publications, patents, R &D etc.)
Professional outputs of project institutions increased significantly over the Project period.
Professional publications increased from 3800 to 6328 per year (67% of target), other academic
products such as books and chapters increased from 404 to 1144 per year (183% of the target), patents
obtained and applied for increased from 22 to 34 per year (55% of the target) and 86 per year (617%
of the target), and R & D products commercialized increased 29 to 66 per year (124% of the target).

Intermediate Outcome Indicator 2: Joint programs and activities with networked institutions
Networking activities were very few in number at the start of the Project, and the target was to
increase them significantly. In 2007-08, externally funded R & D projects increased by 337%, joint
consultancies increased by 143%, joint publications increased by 389%, joint training and continuing
education programs increased by 789%, joint research guidance for Masters' and Ph.D. programs
increased by 463% and Joint Seminars etc increased by 882% over the base-line.

Achievement of Outputs by Components
Component 1 was successful in Promoting Academic Excellence, Promoting Networking among
institutions, and Enhancing Institutions Outreach by way of Services to Community and Economy.
By the end of the Project, all proposed civil works, purchase of equipment and goods had been
completed. The Project was successful in keeping its focus on quality and not on infrastructure per se.
The share of expenditure on civil works was 7.5%, less than the allotted 10%. Modern classrooms and
laboratories were built or refurbished, libraries were expanded and modernized with advanced ICT


                                                  7
facilities and machinery/equipment more aligned with industry needs and cutting edge research and
technology were procured under the Project.

By 2007-08, more than 30,000 faculty and 13,000 staff short-term and long-term training instances
had taken place. Faculty and staff members received training for an average of 8 and 7 days
respectively; both improving from the earlier average of 4-5 days. A faculty development review was
carried out as part of the ICR. Findings from the review showed that training for faculty consisted of a
range of activities including attendance in seminars and conferences, pedagogical training and
management development programs.

93% of the target UG and PG programs proposed for restructuring/revision/reorientation, and 71% of
new UG and 66% of new PG programs proposed to be introduced were completed. A total of 563
additional faculty positions were proposed by the institutions in their CIP of which 41% were
sanctioned. However, of the sanctioned posts, only 141 positions (61% of sanctioned positions and
25% of proposed positions) were filled of which 48 were by contract faculty.

There was substantial scaling up of post-graduate programs to meet existing faculty shortages.
Enrolment in Master and Ph.D. programs increased 50% and 69% respectively from the base-line year
enrolment. In addition to services to community and economy, project institutions organized more
than 1800 activities to help students from disadvantaged backgrounds.

Component 2 was successful in introducing the Practice of Modern Management Style in project
institutions, Undertaking Policy Studies, Enhancing Performance, Quality and Efficiency of State
Audits of Institutions, and Establishing Program Management Structures at the central and state
levels. Under TEQIP, more than 1,200 training programs on planning and management skills were
organized in which 13,531 officers participated. Participants included members of SPFUs, Directors,
Heads of Departments and Senior Faculty members from project institutions. All project institutions
have completed seven student and faculty satisfaction surveys and seven performance audits. Several
states have undertaken internal quality audits. Himachal Pradesh and Uttaranchal have done internal
audits in all institutions while Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal have done so in two-
thirds of their institutions. West Bengal has even developed a formal benchmarking and results
framework.

Links between Outputs and Outcomes

It is highly likely that Project inputs, policies and reforms supported by the Project have
contributed significantly to the attainment of the PDO, and without the Project these
improvements would have been smaller and slower paced. More trained teachers and technical
staff translated into better teaching and learning in the classrooms and laboratories. Staff training
included a large number of laboratory technicians to improve the quality of laboratory work. Curricula
were restructured/revised/reoriented and new programs were introduced again in light of new skill
needs. The combination of revised/restructured/reoriented and new programs, faculty and staff
training and modern infrastructure and facilities provided a combined impetus for raising the quality
of teaching and learning.

Under TEQIP a much greater focus was given to the relationship between academic institutions and
the surrounding community and economy. A large number of activities were conducted with 225,000
beneficiaries. Institutions paid more attention to placement of students and there was awareness
among employers of TEQIP and its objectives. A growing economy also aided a higher placement
rate of students. Enhancement of post-graduate education, research and consultancy activities had a
direct bearing in the increase in R &D outputs as these were a special focus of TEQIP. Networking
outputs and services to the community and economy were TEQIP sub-components. These activities
were introduced as innovations under the Project and started almost from a zero base. Certain
institution level activities such as book banks and remedial teaching for disadvantaged students were
also done in most of the project institutions for the first time under the Project. The success of these

                                                   8
activities was supported by an environment of enhanced autonomy and greater institutional flexibility
and efficiency achieved through reforms. Reforms at the state and institution levels were legal
covenants of the Project, and therefore can be clearly considered TEQIP outcomes. A few of the
activities intended to enhance academic flexibility were already prevalent in some institutions, but
others made these changes under TEQIP and most likely would not have done so without it. From
statistical analysis of the satisfaction scores of students from all 5 audits, we find that 19% of the
variation in satisfaction scores can be attributed to the Project as the model equalizes the underlying
differences between institutions.

3.3 Efficiency
The Project supported 127 institutions across India to improve both their internal and external
efficiency. Internal efficiency, though variable across institutions and falling short of the target,
nevertheless increased due to higher enrolment, better internal processes for conducting admissions,
examinations, and declaration of results. The details are provided in Annex 3. Internal efficiency also
increased due to increase in faculty productivity, driven by faculty development activities and by
improvement in infrastructure and equipment which could be used both for better teaching-learning
and better quality R & D.

An IRR analysis described in more detail in Annex 3 shows that the rate of return on the Project was
15%. This compares favorably with the prospective IRR analysis done at the time of Project appraisal,
and with the rate of return on a typical asset in the general economy. This is also likely to be an under-
estimate as it uses improved labor market outcomes of students as the only benefits, and does not take
into account the increased availability of more and better trained faculty, the enhanced institutional
capacity to do R & D, and the greater stimulation to economic growth.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

The Satisfactory rating is justified given successful achievement or over-achievement of most
outcomes. The outcomes have resulted from reforms, completion of all investment activities and good
utilization of investments, improvement in faculty quality, improvement in the research and
development productivity of institutions, networking among institutions, and services to community
and economy. Even where there are shortfalls, these are innovations for the sector (networking and
services to community and economy) and take time to mature. Despite their newness, a large number
of beneficial activities were completed.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The Project was expected to influence poverty indirectly through improvement in the competitiveness
of the Indian economy by improving the quality of engineering skills, which would contribute to
higher growth. Poverty was directly addressed to some extent through the sub-component of services
to the local community whereby faculty and students of participating institutions could help them
through problem solving and transfer of technology. The Project directly addressed gender and social
aspects through its Tribal Development Plan according to which institutions would propose actions to
help academically weak students from SC/ST/OBC backgrounds and girls, and also pro-actively fill
student and faculty positions reserved for women and SC/ST/OBC candidates. Under the TDP, nearly
1,800 activities were conducted by project institutions over the Project period, benefitting 162,000
male and 63,000 female students. The most common activities undertaken by institutions were
establishment of book banks, provision of remedial teaching, awareness raising workshops and
lectures. While, case-studies were not undertaken to assess how beneficial these activities were for
their intended beneficiaries, lack of books and remedial teaching have been identified as real
constraints for the academic well-being of students from these groups. Thus, it can plausibly be
assumed that these activities had a positive impact on students belonging to disadvantaged groups.
The Project also monitored steps taken by institutions to fill student seats reserved for these groups


                                                    9
and for a more equitable representation of these groups among faculty members, though no specific
strategy was agreed on under the Project for these tasks. Data is not available to evaluate the
performance of project institutions on filling reserved seats.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The Project contributed substantially to institutional strengthening, institutional change and
institutional capacity building. While achievement has been variable across states/institutions,
the Project has to be lauded for the significant strides it has made in overcoming the inertia of
decades of resistance to change. All the reforms in the Project were directed towards institutional
change ­ academic, financial, administrative and managerial autonomy of institutions, establishment
of staff, corpus, maintenance and depreciation funds for institutional development and maintenance,
leadership through the Board of Governor, participatory decision-making and delegation of financial
and administrative powers to senior officers with accountability, and introduction of internal quality
assurance mechanisms. Many other institutional reforms were also introduced to improve the
academic efficiency and productivity of project institutions such as flexibility in admission, choice of
courses, student and teacher performance evaluations, faculty incentives to participate in R & D and
consultancy, and recognition of faculty merit among others.

Accreditation of Programs: The Project emphasized accreditation which is a quality assurance
mechanism that provides certification from a competent authority that programs meet minimum
quality standards. By the end of the Project, 93% of eligible Bachelors/Diploma (out of 811) and 83%
of eligible Masters/Post-Diploma programs (out of 566) had obtained or applied for accreditation
from the National Board of Accreditation (NBA).

Autonomy: Research now shows that autonomy status of institutions is significantly linked to the
quality of education it offers and research productivity. The status of autonomy at the end of the
Project was - full and substantial academic autonomy granted to 60% of the institutions, full financial
autonomy to 80% of the institutions, full managerial autonomy to 80% of the institutions and full
administrative autonomy to 80% of the institutions.

Block Grant: Block grants complement autonomy by allowing institutions to align expenditure to
their self-determined goals for institutional development. There were considerable shortfalls in this
activity. 8 of the 13 states granted partial discretion over funds to non-private project institutions.
Haryana was the only state to pass a government order instituting block-grants fully. Block-grants
were not instituted in any of the CFIs.

Establishment of Four Funds: Under the Project, the institutions were to establish four institutional
funds for continuous improvement and sustaining gains after the Project closes through the
availability of resources at the institutional level. The Project achieved over 90% of the targets under
this activity: 115 (93%) institutions have established a corpus fund; 112 (90%) institutions established
a staff development fund; 112 (90%) institutions established a depreciation fund; and 113 (91%)
institutions established a maintenance fund.

Internal Revenue Generation (IRG): Internally generated revenues (IRG) increased by nearly 30%
in nominal terms during the Project period. Much of the increase came from tuition sources due to
increase in the number of students (relative to student expenses). Institutions were variably successful
in generating non-tuition IRG as fewer than 50% institutions reported increase in IRG at the end of
the Project. The share of IRG from non-student sources averaged around 20% through Project life. 75
of the 102 or 75% of the non-private institutions reported that they could retain tuition income, and all
the non-private institutions other than CFIs reported that they can retain all the non-tuition internal
revenue generated. For some government funded institutions, the IRG retained is however adjusted
against the recurring expenditure of the institutions.

Board of Governors (BOG): BOGs are critical elements in a more autonomous governance
structures. For the effective exercise of autonomy, each project institution was to establish a Board of

                                                   10
Governors who would oversee and guide institutional development. By the end of the Project 122
institutions (96%) had established a BOG whose members included well-known academics and
industrialists. The number of times a typical BOG met every year increased from 1-2 in the beginning
of the Project to 2-4 towards Project end.

Academic Reforms in Institutions: Under the Project a series of academic reforms were to be
undertaken to improve the internal efficiency of institutions and to make the academic process more
flexible for students, such as having systems of credit exemption, credit transfers, offering a greater
choice in elective subjects and a more flexible pace of learning: by Project end, 99% institutions had
implemented the semester system; 65% institutions had implemented the credit system for
UG/Diploma programs; 95% institutions reported offering a wide range of electives to UG or PG
students; 44% institutions reported offering a flexible pace of learning to students; 40% institutions
reported offering credit exemptions; and 41% institutions reported offering admissions to students
with backgrounds different from that of regular admissions.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
The Project has been successful in having a strong demonstration effect which is evidenced from the
extension of specific reforms to non-project institutions by many states. The state of West Bengal has
introduced many of the academic and non-academic institutional reforms (including financial reforms
such as block-grant, IRG generation and retention and setting up of the four funds) introduced under
TEQIP to all publicly funded non-TEQIP institutions. Similarly, the state of Karnataka has
introduced many of the TEQIP academic reforms to other institutions, including autonomy,
establishment of BOG, and delegating of powers to Heads of Departments and senior faculty. Since
2007, the state of Haryana has adopted an `autonomy policy' of granting autonomy to well-
performing institutions. It has also contracted academic auditors for all public technical education
institutions. The state of Andhra Pradesh has created a performance measurement system derived
from TEQIP for its state-wide technical education system.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Survey findings show that beneficiaries/stakeholders have expressed high satisfaction with the
Project. Seven student and faculty satisfaction surveys were conducted by project institutions at
intervals of six months. The first of these were done in 2005 and the last in 2009. On a scale of 1 to 10,
the average student satisfaction score increased from 6.67 to 8.5, i.e. by 27%, over the life of the
Project. This is quite a large improvement; international student satisfaction surveys show that even
an improvement of 10% is significant. An implementation survey was conducted in 2008 where
implementers at project institutions and SPFUs were asked to rate the Project. A majority of the
respondents expressed a high level of satisfaction with the overall Project, its design and
implementation. There was also an overall high level of satisfaction among the respondents with the
support provided by NPIU/MHRD, SPFUs and the World Bank. The respondents also identified
certain areas for improvement with respect to Project design and implementation. These surveys are
discussed in greater detail in Annex 5.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The overall risk to development outcome is rated as "Moderate". The higher education, and in
particular engineering education, reform agenda has acquired greater urgency among the leadership of
the country. It is also a key focus of the 11th Five Year Plan (2007-2012) and this is likely to continue
in the next one. All states have expressed their desire to participate in the second phase of support to
the sector and therefore are unlikely to reverse reforms overall.

Firstly, investments in faculty, equipment and civil works will likely pay-off for the next 5-20 years.
Continued investment in faculty development, equipment and buildings will require sustained funding
from the government which is likely to be forthcoming. However, continuation of special activities
(services to community and economy, TDP and networking) are not necessarily likely to continue

                                                   11
unless funding and political attention continues from the state governments. Secondly, the policy
reforms in terms of autonomy are likely to not to be reversed. Few institutions will give back the
power to government, and few governments will take back the power unless mismanagement takes
place. The institutions with increased powers are likely to have become dynamic through the
leadership and change in BOGs that will continue to push for improvements. However, to continue
the reform process and broader introduction of modern educational policies, such as accreditation and
financing based upon results, are likely to require more impetus and implementation to firmly take
root in the engineering education system.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

The performance of the Bank is rated "Satisfactory". There was continuity in the Bank team
during the preparation through the implementation phase. As discussed earlier, the Project design was
based on extensive consultations with stake holders, had strong linkages with the country's own
priorities and policy framework for the sector, and included good practice from similar projects in
other developing countries. It included the Tribal Development Plan for equity assurance. Project
impact could have been improved if the design had anticipated some of the administrative and
bureaucratic hurdles encountered in implementing reforms.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

Quality of supervision by the Bank is rated "Satisfactory". Supervision provided by the Bank was
timely, regular and technically sound. There was continuity in the Bank team for most of project
period, and there was a smooth transition to the new task team leader in the last two years of the
Project. Much of the Bank's supervision team was based in the country allowing for frequent informal
need-based consultation with and feedback to the NPIU. For the problems that arose during the slow
start to the Project, full support was given by the Bank team in identifying problems and their
solutions to the Government and NPIU. Once the NPIU and the Government's Project team became
stable and acquired more personnel, the Bank team supported them in focusing on implementation
and development outcomes.

Reporting: Bank reporting of Project performance in the PSR and ISRs of the development outcomes
and implementation progress is comprehensive. There were no inconsistencies between the ratings
given for outcomes, implementation progress, fiduciary and monitoring and evaluation. There is some
inconsistency in the units in which data on KPIs and intermediate outcomes were reported in a couple
of ISRs.

Fiduciary: The challenge of procurement in this Project was to ensure that decentralized competitive
bidding by 18 central institutions and 109 institutions in 13 states was correctly carried out with
support from the Bank's procurement team. Appropriate actions were taken based on findings from
the post-procurement reviews. Focus of Financial Management during the Project has been two fold;
looking at fiduciary aspects as well as capacity building of key Project participants. This included
assistance in modification of the Financial Management Manual and reporting formats, participation
in training sessions, review of audit reports and flagging of issues to the Government and
recommendation on remedial actions.

Monitoring and Evaluation: Extensive support was given by the Bank team in operationalizing the
Results Framework. The Bank team continuously flagged the issue of the quality of data to the
government as recorded in the ISRs. The Bank team helped the Project teams at the centre and state


                                                 12
levels in effective use of the satisfaction surveys, initiated self-assessments by project institutions and
supported the NPIU in undertaking a post-Project case-study based Project evaluation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Overall Bank performance is rated "Satisfactory" in Quality at Entry and in Supervision as described
above.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Department of Higher Education in the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) was
responsible for project implementation through the National Project Director. The Government's
ownership and commitment to the Project was demonstrated when in 2005, it took strict measures to
bring the Project back on the path to progress. The government's Project team underwent change, and
efforts were made to increase staff numbers of the NPIU. There were close links between the MHRD
and NPIU through the Project, and participation of the former in all interactions with the Bank team.
This facilitated easy communication flow. The MHRD's own technical team could be strengthened in
future projects as that will add greatly to speed of implementation and Project impact. The MHRD
through NPIU was also responsible for supervising implementation of the project in Centrally
Financed Institutions (CFIs). Except for two institutions, the overall performance of the CFIs was
satisfactory. The CFIs were not given block-grants and had no clear permission to give vacancies for
faculty and staff.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The National Project Implementation Unit performed satisfactorily. The outcome of the Project
was satisfactory after a very slow start, and the NPIU facilitated implementation and assisted the
states in speeding up progress. The NPIU arranged for (a) orientation workshops in Project concept
for mentors/auditors and (b) procurement and FM training workshops for the states and institutions.
Dissemination of information was also done through NPIU's website which was regularly updated
with all the new material ­ reports and studies ­ that became available. As described in greater detail
in Annex 5, states and institutions implementing officers rated the NPIU highly on its performance,
collaboration, timeliness and adequacy of guidance, responsiveness to inquiries, and support on
procurement and financial management procedures. NPIU's work was, however, hampered due to
shortage and turnover of staff. A Project of this large size requires a proportionately adequate number
of people to oversee its different aspects ­ technical and academic, governance reforms, monitoring
and evaluation, and fiduciary. All these different expertise were carried out by the same small group
of, albeit very committed and dedicated, Project team.

The average rating for State governments' performance is satisfactory. State governments
implemented the Project through their State Project Facilitation Units (SPFUs). Active monitoring and
Project facilitation by individual state governments was crucial for success. Project implementation
and outcomes overall for the states was satisfactory, though there were high, medium and low
performers. Annex 2 provides a comparative performance of states across different Project
dimensions. Initially, states were reluctant to undertake reforms and delayed budgetary provisions but
motivated by the central government, states reiterated their commitments to the legal covenants of the
Project, and While, the SPFUs work suffered from staff shortage and turnover, still project institutions
rated their SPFUs highly with respect to overall guidance and support. State level institutions could
have benefited more from speedier facilitation of granting of academic autonomy, provision of block-
grants, sanctioning of faculty positions and filling existing vacancies in project institutions.




                                                    13
 (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The overall rating for borrower ­ government and implementing agencies - performance, is rated
satisfactory as described above.




                                                14
6. Lessons Learned

In this section, we first provide a list of general lessons emerging from the Project. A list of specific
lessons is provided in Annex 10.
 Strong ownership of the central and state governments is essential to successful project
    implementation, especially if the project is designed to do the right things at the right time which
    has been the case with TEQIP.
 The instrument chosen for the Project, a reforms-based Specific Investment Loan (SIL)
    embedded, worked well in India where there were a large number of states and institutions
    competing for project funds.
 Competitive funding of institutions is a flexible tool that can be used to support changing sector
    priorities by selecting appropriate eligibility and selection criteria. Voluntary participation by
    states to implement reforms increases the likelihood of their success.
 Innovations introduced under reform-oriented investment projects can have spill-over effects on
    parts of the sector not under the purview of the Project. Similarly, strong ownership coupled with
    demonstrable positive project outcomes can create a receptive platform for further innovations.
 Implementation performance depends on the availability of adequate full-time staff and their
    timely training in implementation procedures; ideally prior to project effectiveness. Staff
    continuity should be maintained as much as possible to reduce delays caused by unfilled posts and
    time taken by new staff to learn the job.
 Decentralizing project implementation to the institution level can increase participation but
    execution can get delayed because it takes time to train all the implementers in the proper
    procedures. Additionally, good communication mechanisms between the institutions and state
    level implementing agencies and the state and central level agencies, if absent, can delay or even
    derail implementation.
 Technical assistance should be considered when projects involve new approaches such as
    strategic planning and results-based management. Technical assistance should also be considered
    with respect to reforms supported by the project which generally require a fair-bit of restructuring
    and renegotiation of relationships between different nodes ­ for example, the relationships within
    an institution between management, faculty and students, between institutions (in the case of
    networking for example) and between institutions and apex bodies (such as the affiliating
    universities or the AICTE, NBA and UGC in the case of TEQIP).
 Where project outputs depend on cooperation from institutions outside the project, there may be
    uncertainty associated with results. These problems can be overcome if all institutions necessary
    for change are formally made part of the project. Sector rigidities and inefficiencies may also stem
    to some extent from the quality of functioning of these institutions which have influence over the
    whole sector.
 A well designed results framework coupled with a monitoring and evaluation system should not
    go through substantive changes during project implementation. All efforts must be made to ensure
    that the data being collected are complete and valid. If a significant amount of data is self-
    reported, there should be some mechanism for verification of the information provided. This can
    become important not only for a true assessment of changes taking place, but also to learn
    valuable lessons from the experience of implementing reforms.
 Impact evaluation should be made part of project design to ascertain project outcomes across
    comparable `treatment' (project) and `control' (non-project) groups of institutions. On projects
    that support large reforms, it is difficult to isolate the contribution of the project. However,
    because of the lags inherent in the education process, the outcomes and impacts of many
    investments in education are often only apparent sometime after the project has closed.
 Any reform-based project in the technical/engineering sector cannot omit private institutions who
    dominate as providers. Private aided and unaided institutions used the resources provided under
    the project well. However, given their relative unfamiliarity with public procurement methods,
    they may need greater supervision and training.



                                                   15
    States are generally reluctant to provide public funds to private institutions. To ensure smooth
    implementation, co-financing arrangements between states and private institutions should be
    agreed to up-front.
    Most engineering colleges and polytechnics are geared towards teaching, especially
    undergraduate teaching. More disaggregated data would have allowed a better assessment of how
    reasonable it is to have a uniform set of indicators across different institution types.
    Measurement of outcomes relating to student and faculty competency is a challenge. Employment
    rates and salaries are determined by many factors other than quality of skills. Direct measurement
    of student and faculty competency is difficult to design. With a diversity of institutions,
    attainment of honors and distinction relate students to their peers in the same institution and there
    is also the risk of grade inflation as an unintended incentive of the project.
    It is not easy to measure outcomes related to institutional strengthening and capacity building,
    especially when the aim is change in institutional culture. Similar, it is challenging to measure
    changes in the teaching-learning process.
    On fiduciary aspects, an important lesson learned is that as much attention is required on the
    capacity building issues as on basic fiduciary issues. In this project it was noted that in states
    where attention to capacity building remained weak, many internal control issues continued to be
    identified (reported through annual audit reports) year after year. With view to the large spread of
    the project and involvement of a large number of institutions, it has been recognized that for any
    subsequent project there needs to be constant attention to training at all levels (states as well as
    institutions) by dedicating an officer for this purpose.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Borrower's (comments and) ICR are attached in Annex 7, which reinforce the findings of this ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers
NA

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
NA




                                                  16
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                        Actual/Latest
                                  Appraisal Estimate                            Percentage of
           Components                                  Estimate (USD
                                   (USD millions)                                Appraisal
                                                          millions)
 1.1.INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT THROUGH
COMPETITIVE FUNDING:
                                        304.50              308.20                 101.20
-- PROMOTION OF ACADEMIC
EXCELLENCE --
NETWORKING O
 2. SYSTEM MANAGEMENT
                                           9.50                6.91                 72.71
CAPACITY IMPROVEMENT


             Total Baseline Cost           314.00               315.11             100.30
Physical Contingencies
                                             0.00                    0.00           0.00
Price Contingencies
                                             0.00                 0.00              0.00
                Total Project Costs        314.00               315.11             100.30
                                             0.00                 0.00               .00
                                             0.00                 0.00               .00
      Total Financing Required             314.00               315.11             100.30




(b) Financing
                                                        Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                         Type of Co      Estimate        Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                          financing       (USD            (USD        Appraisal
                                                         millions)       millions)
 Borrower                                             64.00           64.19         100.37
 International Development Association
                                                      250.00          250.92      100.36
(IDA)




                                               17
       Annex 2. Outputs by Component

       In this annex we provide more detailed information on outcomes and a summary of outputs by
       components. Where data is available, we also provide information by states and CFIs. Data reported
       here are taken from the 10 Joint Review Mission Reports and from year-wise national level data on
       outputs and outcomes provided by the NPIU.

       Project Outcomes: The development objectives of the Project were met overall. Of all the indicators
       that were followed, only 3 fell short of their targets. For the rest, the targets were either fully achieved
       or over-achieved. The achievements in PDO are described in tables 2.1-2.5.


                               Table 2.1: Share of students graduating with distinction/honors
                                    Base-line      2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 Target                             % Achieve-
                                    2003-04                                                                            ment of
 Indicator                                                                                                             Target
 Students Graduating with
 Distinction/Equivalent UG (%)             35             37            38            41          50           50            100
 Students Graduating with
 Distinction/Equivalent PG (%)             36             38            39            41          51           50            100


                                             Table 2.2: Services to Community and Economy
                                                                                                                               % Increase
                                                                                                                               in 2007-08
                                                                                                   Apr - Sep                    over the
        Indicator                2003-04        2004-05    2005-06          2006-07    2007-08       2008           Total       base-line
 Number of    Community             294           821          1385          1133          819          439          4891          278
 Programs     Unorganized            84           179           439           733          660          352          2447          785
 Conducted    labor force
               Industry              82           204           387           427          401          193          1694          489
               personnel
               Total                460          1204          2211          2293          1880         984          9032          409
Number of technologies               48           91            240           331          316          131          1157          658
transferred to the community
 Number of beneficiaries           3050          10254         31002         47481     177652          59954        329393         582
from skill-oriented programs
for the community and the
organized labor force


                           Table 2.3: Labor Market Outcomes of Graduates from TEQIP Institutions
       Indicator                   Base-line 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 Target            % Achievement
                                   2003-04                                                     of Target
       Campus Placement Rate           41       52        61        68        76      85              89
       UG* (%)
       Annual Average Salary         0.166     0.217    0.282     0.285     0.290      -
       UG (Million Rupees)
       Campus Placement Rate           25       31        41        51        56      85              66
       PG (%)
       Annual Average Salary          0.19     0.29      0.32      0.34      0.36      -
       PG (Million Rupees)
       *Campus placement rate refers to the percentage of students who get placed in employment through placement activities of
       the institution. It is a lower bound on the overall employment rate which includes students getting placement through their
       own efforts.




                                                                       18
                                         Table 2.4: Research and Development Outputs
                                                                                                       % Achievement of % Increase
                                                                                            Apr 2008 - Target in 2007-08 from Base-line
                             2003-04 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08
                                                                                              Sep 08 (=100%increase) in 2007-08
 Indicator
No. of Publications           3800       6670         7803         8407         6328          3383            67              166
No. of Other Academic
Products                      404         454         520          837          1144           802            183             283
No. of Patents Obtained        22          34          34           42           34            12              55             154
No. of Patents Applied for     12          23          58           95           86             93            617             716
R & D Products
Commercialized                    29      39           45           75           65            37             124             224

                                                 Table 2.5: Networking Outputs
                                                                                               % Increase
                                                                                    Apr 2008 - in 2007-08
        Indicator (No. of Activities)       2003-04 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08   Sep 08 over 2003-04
       Externally Funded Joint R & D           70     105     161     199     236     151          337
       projects
       Joint Consultancies                      183          237          312          290          186     131         143
       Joint Publications                       284          545          894          911          1106    677         389
       Joint Training and Continuing             55           94          274          375          434     220         789
       Education Programs
       Joint Research Guidance for              98           128          238          340           454    455         463
       M.Tech./Ph.D.
       Joint Seminars, Conferences              80           169          422          501           706    479         882
       and Student Centered Activities

       Project Outputs by Components
       Component 1: Institutional Development: Institutional development was achieved through reform
       based investments. Overall the Project was substantially successful in promoting academic excellence
       through autonomy, accountability and quality assurance, upgrading faculty skills, internal efficiency
       of institutions, and increasing the production of post-graduates, and R & D required by industry.
       Almost all the investments envisaged were completed fully. In reforms, except for full academic
       autonomy and institution of block-grants, all other reforms achieved between 80-90% or more of their
       targets.

       Sub-Component 1.1. Promotion of Academic Excellence
       Accreditation: Over 90% of UG and PG programs that were eligible received or applied for
       accreditation during Project life. Accreditation to engineering programs in India are provided by the
       NBA which conducts periodical evaluations of programs according to specified norms and standards
       for academic quality set by the AICTE. NBA has full authority to recognize or de-recognize programs.
       Institutions fast-tracked their process of applying for accreditation under the Project ­ the share of
       programs for which accreditation was applied for increased substantially.


                  Table 2.6: Accreditation Status of Programs in TEQIP-supported Institutions
                      Program                                                         All       States       CFIs
                                       Total Eligible                                 811         690        121
                                       Accreditation Received                         511         441         70
                                       Applied                                        245         207         38
                             UG        Applied(Renewal)                                1            6          0
                                       Remaining                                      55           42         13
                                       Accreditation Received +
                                       Applied (%)                                    93.2           93.9     89



                                                                     19
                           Total Eligible                       566         432            134
                           Accreditation Received               264         200            64
                 PG        Applied                              232         174            58
                           Remaining                            70          58             12
                           Accreditation Received +
                           Applied (%)                          87.6        86.6            91
                           Total Eligible                       1377        1122           255
                           Accreditation Received               775         641            134
                Total      Applied                              477         381             96
                           Applied(Renewal)                     225         170             55
                           Remaining                             125         100            25
                           Accredited Received %                56.3          64           52.5
                           Applied%                             34.6         30            37.6
               % Total
                           Total %                              91.1         94            91.2
                           Remaining%                            9.1          6             9.8

Autonomy and Governance: Under the Project, it was made mandatory for project institutions to be
granted academic, financial, managerial and administrative autonomy. Universities, Deemed
Universities and their constituent colleges, and affiliated but autonomous institutions are academically
`autonomous' in India and recognized as such by the University Grant Commission (UGC). Academic
autonomy means that an institution can set its own curricula and do its own student assessment.
Unless they are affiliated institutions, they can also give their own degrees. This range is spanned by
substantial to full academic autonomy status of institutions under the Project. Financial autonomy to
be granted to the project institutions comprised an inter-related and complementary set of activities
such as recurrent expenditure being given to government institutions as block grants, the
establishment of four funds, delegation of financial powers to heads of institutions and increased
generation of revenues that were to be retained by institutions for discretionary use. More than three-
quarters of the Project institutions became fully financially, managerially and administratively
autonomous. The share was lower for academic autonomy because many institutions were affiliated to
universities and had to follow their guidelines. Almost all institutions established a Board of
Governors (BOG) whose frequency of meetings increased over the course of the Project.

                        Table 2.7: Status of Autonomy and BOG in the Project
           Type of Autonomy                           Share of Institutions (out of 127)
           Full Academic Autonomy                                     60%
           Full Financial Autonomy                                    84%
           Full Managerial Autonomy                                   80%
           Full Administrative Autonomy                               88%
           BOG                                                        96%

Institutional Reforms: The table below shows achievements in reforms at the institution level. Except
for credit exemptions, credit accumulation and credit transfers and block grants, achievements in all
other reforms were over 90%. Credit exemptions, accumulation and transfers require agreements
across institutions, both in the Project and outside it. Experience elsewhere in the world shows that
these reforms take a long period of trial and error before they stabilize.

                 Table 2.8: Status of Institutional Reforms in Project Institutions
                                                                          Share of
                                   Reform Indicator                       Institutions (%)
                 Flexibility in Academic Progress :
                    Multi-level and Multi-background Entry                         93
                   Credit Exemptions                                               52
                   Credit Accumulation                                             40
                   Credit Transfers                                                50

                                                      20
                  Wide choice of Electives                                       91
                  Student Performance Evaluation                                 99
                  Faculty Incentives                                             98
                  Recognizing Meritorious Teachers                               92
                  Attracting and Retaining Faculty                               83
                  Graduates Records & Tracer Studies                             84
                  Friendly Management System                                     98
                  Utilization of Resources and Reducing Wastage                  97
                  Mechanisms for Regular Quality and Efficiency Audit            97
                  Block Grant                                                    69

Improvements in Curricular Practices: More than 90% of the eligible programs underwent
revision/restructuring/reorientation. More than two-thirds of the new programs were introduced. The
shortfalls in the latter were likely due to lack of demand for them, and the difficulties of appointing
new faculty.
                      Table 2.9: Status of Improvements in Curricular Practices
                                               Revision/Restructuring/       Introduction of New
                                               Reorientation of Programs     Programs
                                               % of target achieved          % of target achieved
                                               (100% was target)
                         States                            91                             72
             UG          CFIs                             100                             68
                         All                               93                             71

                         States                            91                             62
             PG          CFIs                             100                             75
                         All                               93                             66

Faculty and Staff Development: TEQIP institutions have a better record of filling faculty vacancies
(76%) compared to India as a whole (<75%). Hiring additional faculty and staff remain a difficulty in
the public sector, particularly the CFIs. State level institutions are able to hire new faculty and staff
more easily; the more than 100% achievements at the state level is mostly due to new faculty and staff
hired by private institutions.
                                Table 2.10: Filling in Faculty Positions
                                                                Number of     % Filled
                                                                Sanctioned    (Regular
                                       Faculty Position         Posts        +Contract)
                                       Director                    18           100
                                       Professor                   428          77
                                       Associate Professor          0            0
                         CFIs
                                       Assistant Professor         673          67
                                       Lecturer                   1506          76
                                       All                        2625          74
                                       Director                    107          95
                                       Professor                  1893          86
                                       Associate Professor         688          84
                         States
                                       Assistant Professor        3985          81
                                       Lecturer                   7419          98
                                       All                        16717         77
                         Total         Total                      19342         76


                                                     21
                         Table 2.11: Hiring of Additional Faculty and Staff
                                             Posts
                                             Proposed     Posts                          % Filled
                                             in CIP       Sanctioned        % Filled     Regular
                               Faculty             158             57             31           23
                     CFIs      Staff               198             40             58           58
                               Faculty             405            299            150           118
                    States     Staff               598            276            177           118


                Table 2.12: Faculty and Staff Development (available information)
                                                                 Number of         Number
                                                                  Faculty          of Staff
                      Date                                        Trained          Trained
                      April 2006 - September 2006                   5968               2529
                      September 2006 - April 2007                   9346               3356
                      April 2007 - September 2007                   5216               2391
                      September 2007 - April 2008                   7883               4054
                      April 2008 - September 2009                   4745               1378
                      Total*                                       33158               13708
                   *This is an under-estimate because it does not include
                   Information on the first 3 years of the Project

Enhancement in Postgraduate Education and Research, and Consultancy Activities: The small
numbers of post-graduate students in the engineering education sector in India has been a long term
concern. In 2007-08, the annual numbers of enrolled Masters and Ph. D. students had increased by
50% and 69% over the base-line. In 2005-06, India overall graduated about 1000 Ph.D. students from
1400+ institutions. The achievements of the 127 project institutions in this regard (587 Ph.D. students
graduating in 2007-08) is a significant break from the trend.


                                Table 2.13: Scaling up of PG Programs
                                                                                               % Increase in
                                                                                               Enrollment in
                                                                                               2007-08 over
 PDO                        2003-04 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 Total                      Base-line
 No. of Students Enrolled ­                                                                           50
 Masters                       8942    9781   10846   11196   13389 54154
 No. of Students
                                                                                                     46
 Graduating - Masters          7218    8318    8860    8705   10571 43672
 No. of Students Enrolled -                                                                          69
 Ph.D.                         1212    1297    1593    1761    2043   7906
 No. of Students
                                                                                                     71
 Graduating - Ph.D.             342     485     506     485     587   2405

Enhanced Interaction with Industry: There is no clear evidential basis for assessing achievements in
this activity as no PDO or intermediate outcome indicator was formulated to measure it. Discussions
during review missions suggest that interaction with industry was sought and increased for improving
curricular practices, for promoting consultancy activities and in generation of internal revenues.

Increased Attention to Equity Issues: Equity assurance under the Project was outlined in the Tribal
Development Plan and included institution determined activities for weak students belonging to

                                                         22
disadvantaged backgrounds including Scheduled Caste (SC)/Scheduled Tribes (ST)/Other Backward
Castes (OBC) groups and girls. Activities included remedial teaching classes, establishment of book
banks, preparation for job interviews and entrance exams, skills development and counseling.

                               Table 2.14: Tribal Development Plan Outputs
                                      (Based on details of selected activities)
                                         Services to Community Tribal Development Progress In
         Indicators                           & Economy             Program       Networking
         No. of Activities                        4292                         1794                 2482
         No. of Male Participants                438309                       162312                 na
         No. of Female Participants              209795                       62714                  na
         No. of SC/ST Participants                80935                         na                   na
         No. of Other Participants                70726                         na                   na
         No. of Faculty Participants                na                          na                 51247
         No. of Student Participants                na                          na                 132726
         No. of Staff Participants                  na                          na                  8239
        na : Data not available

Sub-Component 1.2 Networking of Institutions: At the time of Project start, institutional
networking was low and not considered a mainstream activity by them. This changed substantially
during the Project ­ with each institution undertaking an average of 6-7 such activities and benefiting
nearly 2000 faculty and students per year.


                                       Table 2.15 Networking Activities
                                               Activities                       Beneficiaries
                                Total          per            Total Number      per
                                Number of      Institution    of                Institution
                                Activities     (per year)     Beneficiaries     (per year)
                      CFIs               650       36 (6)            37697            2094 (349)
                      States            4355       40 (7)           213394            1958 (326)
                      All               5005       39 (7)           251091            1977 (328)


Sub- Component 1.3 Services to Community and Economy: The opportunities for using real-life
problems faced by the local society and community as a pedagogical tool by remains under-exploited
by higher education institutions in India. Under the Project, on the average each institution organized
35 such activities annually benefiting a large number of beneficiaries over the life of the Project.

                      Table 2.16 Services to Community and Economy Activities
                                  Total        Activities
                                  Number       per            Total             Beneficiaries
                                  of           Institution    Number of         per Institution
                                  Activities   (per year)     Beneficiaries     (per year)
                    CFIs                744         41 (7)           77747            4319 (720)
                    States             3691         34 (6)          516054            4734 (789)
                    All                4435         35 (6)          593801             4675(779)




                                                         23
                     Table 2.17 Details of Services to Community and Economy over time
Services to Community and Economy                     Achievement During the Academic Year
                                                2003-  2004-    2005-    2006-    2007-      Apr.                    Total
                                                 04      05      06        07      08      2008 to
                                                                                            Sept.
                                                                                             2008
 Involvement    Faculty- community              10873  27501 229132 146030 196326           50758                        660620
of              interactions in person-hours
institutions    Staff- community interactions    9392      31607       127543     204577     226757      109011          708887
with the        in person-hours
community       Student- community              33927      53846       128290     150253     153587      159199          679102
                interactions in person-hours
                Visit of community members      130554     177602      269876     413102     528465      200551      1720150
                to the institution in person-
                hours

     Component 2: Achievements in System Management Capacity Improvement: System
     management capacity improvement hinged on setting up of Project implementation units at the state
     and the central levels. Accordingly, 13 State Project Implementation Units and 1 National Project
     Implementation Unit was established. The Project also envisaged the introduction of modern
     management practices in institutions. More than 13,500 administrators and senior faculty members
     attended workshops and trainings in planning and management.

                                   Table 2.18: Training in Modern Management
                                                                                                            % Increase in
                                                                                     Apr ­ Sep              2007-08 over
   Indicators            2003-04     2004-05    2005-06    2006-07       2007-08       2008    Total        the base-line
   No. of trainings
   organized                40         114       292            340        179         244          1209           610
   No. of persons
   trained in planning
   and management          209         666       2124           4946       2262       3324          13531          1082


     States/CFIs wise Achievements of Institutional Reforms and Selected Activities
     (AP ­ Andhra Pradesh; GUJ ­ Gujarat; HAR ­ Haryana; HP ­ Himachal Pradesh; JR ­ Jharkhand; KA ­
     Karnataka; KER ­ Kerala; MP ­ Madhya Pradesh; MH ­ Maharashtra; TN ­ Tamil Nadu; UT ­ Uttarakhand;
     UP ­ Uttar Pradesh; WB ­ West Bengal; CFI ­ Centrally Financed Institutions.

     Tables 2.19 to 2.24 provide achievements by states and CFIs in various reforms and institutional
     development activities. The data in these tables come from the 10th Joint Review Mission Report and
     data collected from the institutions as part of the ICR exercise. Overall, the states performed better
     compared to CFIs in instituting reforms. Among the states, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat,
     Haryana, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Karnataka are the best performing states.

                                 Table 2.19: Status of Autonomy (% of Institutions)
                                                   AP
            Type of Autonomy/State                 (12)*         GUJ (6)    HAR (5)        HP (3)       JR (4)
            Full Academic                                  75         17       100                  0         33
            Full Financial Autonomy                       100         17       100                  0        100
            Full Managerial Autonomy                      100         17       100                  0         25
            Full Administrative Autonomy                  100         17       100                  0        100

            Type of Autonomy/State              KA (14)          KER (5)    MP (7)         MH (17)      TN (11)
           Full + Substantial Academic Autonomy      86                0         14             71            73


                                                           24
        Full Financial Autonomy                                 80          80               70             71           100
        Full Managerial Autonomy                                50          80              100             71           100
        Full Administrative Autonomy                           100          80              100             71           100

         Type of Autonomy/State              UT (4)                  UP (10)      WB (11)           CFI (18)
        Full + Substantial Academic Autonomy      25                       30          27                100
        Full Financial Autonomy                   75                      100         100                100
        Full Managerial Autonomy                  75                      100         100                100
        Full Administrative Autonomy              75                      100         100                100
           *Numbers in parentheses denotes number of project institutions in the state

                           Table 2.20: State-wise Achievements (% of Institutions) in
                                  Promotion of Academic Excellence (Part 1)
                                                    AP      GUJ                   HA         HP       JR     KA
                   Indicator/State                 (12)      (6)                  (5)        (3)      (4)    (14)
                   Accreditation Achieved             94        57                  52       100       63      54
                   Revised/Restructured Courses      100        67                  82       100      100    100
                   New Courses Started                93      100                  100       100       75      57
                   Block Grants                       75      100                  100       100        0      50
                   Four Funds                        100         0                 100       100      100    100
                   Faculty Vacancy                    12        26                  23         29      49       0
                                            Faculty Training Targets
                   Areas                              91        23                     89    100       73        57
                   Deputed                            82        55                     84    100       75        82




Table 2.21: State-wise Achievements (% of Institutions) in Promotion of Academic Excellence (Part 2)
                                         KER      MP       MH        TN            UP        UT      WB          Total
 Indicator/State                          (5)     (7)      (17)      (11)          (10)      (4)     (11)        (109)
 Accreditation Achieved                    100       58       60        37           61       80       47          56
 Revised/Restructured Courses              100       69       77       100           97      100      100          93
 New Courses Started                        50       29       45        67           48      100       79         66
 Block Grants                               20      100       35       100           70       75       64          57
 Four Funds                                100      100      100       100          100      100     100          81
 Faculty Vacancy                              2      23         7       19            1       20       13         12
                                            Faculty Training Targets
 Areas                                      74       53       50        53             61     63       71           73
 Deputed                                    93       66       59        80             57     64       79           75


      Table 2.22: State-wise Achievements (% of Institutions) in Institutional Reforms (Part 1)
                                                        AP           GUJ      HAR           HP       JR      KA          KER
 States (Number of Institutions)                        (12)          (6)      (5)          (3)      (4)     (14)         (5)
 Flexibility in Academic Progress:
    Multi-level and Multi-background Entry              100          100         100        100       75     100         100
    Credit Exemptions                                    50          100          80         0         0     100          20
    Credit Accumulation                                  42          100          0          0        25     100          20
    Credit Transfers                                     83          67           80         0        50     100          20
    Wide choice of Electives                             83          100         100        100       50     100         100
 Student Performance Evaluation                         100          100         100        100      100     100         100
 Faculty Incentives                                     100          100         100        100      100     100         100
 Recognizing Meritorious Teachers                       100          67          100        100       75     100          60
 Attracting and Retaining Faculty                       100           67         100        100       75     100          40
 Graduates Records & Tracer Studies                      92          100         100        33       100     100         100
 Friendly Management System                             100          100         100        100       75     100         100

                                                                25
Utilization of Resources & Reducing Wastage     100          100     100     100     100      100     100
Mechanisms for Regular Quality &
Efficiency Audit                                100          100     100     100     100      100     100

     Table 2.23: State-wise Achievements (% of Institutions) in Institutional Reforms (Part 2)
                                          MP          MH     TN      UP     UT       WB       CFIs   Total
 States (Number of Institutions)          (7)         (17)   (11)    (10)   (4)      (11)     (18)   (127)
 Flexibility in Academic Progress:                                                                
 Multi-level and Multi-background Entry   100         100    100     90     100      100       61     93
      Credit Exemptions                    43         35     54      20      25      100       33     52
      Credit Accumulation                  29         29     36      10      25      100              40
      Credit Transfers                     43         24     36      10      25      100       22     50
      Wide choice of Electives             71         100    82      70      75      100      100     91
 Student Performance Evaluation           100         100    100     100    100      100       94     99 
 Faculty Incentives                       100         100    100     90     100      100       89     98
 Recognizing Meritorious Teachers         100         100    100     90     100      100       78     92
 Attracting and Retaining Faculty          29         100    100      80     25      100       72     83
 Graduates Records & Tracer Studies        86         100    100     80     100      100       17     84
 Friendly Management System               100         100    100     100    100      100       89     98
 Utilization of Resources and Reducing
 Wastage                                  100         100     100    90     100      100       83     97 
 Mechanisms for Regular Quality and
 Efficiency Audit                         100         100    100     90     100      100       83     97 


                               Table 2.24: State/CFI-wise Block Grants
                                                                     Number with
                                                      Number of       Partial/Full
                  State                               Institutions   Block-Grants       %
                  Andhra Pradesh                           12              5            42
                  Gujarat                                   6              5            83
                  Haryana                                   5              5            100
                  Himachal Pradesh                          3              2            67
                  Jharkhand                                 4              3            75
                  Karnataka                                14              8            57
                  Kerala                                    5              2            40
                  Madhya Pradesh                            7              7            100
                  Maharashtra                              17              7            41
                  Tamil Nadu                               11              6             55
                  Uttar Pradesh                            10              5            50
                  Uttaranchal                               4              0             0
                  West Bengal                              11              7            64
                  CFI                                      18              7            39
                  All                                     127             69            59




                                                       26
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The Project improved overall internal and external efficiency of the 18 Centrally Funded Institutions
and 109 participating institutions in 13 states.

Internal Efficiency
The utilization of resources improved as the numbers of students enrolling in project institutions
increased substantially over the course of the Project. Faculty productivity improved reflected in the
increase in the number of publications and patents per faculty member. There was also improvement ­
albeit to a lesser extent ­ in the utilization efficiency of resources due to sharing of physical and
human capital resources across networked institutions. The Project also improved organizational and
administrative efficiency of project institutions, further improving the productivity of resources.

The table below shows how internal efficiency has improved over the Project period for the
participating institutions. There is modest to substantial improvement in all internal efficiency
indicators. Many of these indicators are related to the autonomy status of institutions.

                            Table 3.1: Internal Efficiency Indicators
                                                                % improvement              % of
 Internal Efficiency Indicators            2003-04 2007-08        over base-line          target
 Academic calendar under institution's control
 (No. of institutions saying 'yes')              66        80              21               63
 Admission process under institution's control
 (No. of Institutions saying 'yes')              27        71              238              56
 Number of Days taken to complete admission      41        33              20                -
 Conduct of examinations under institution's
 control (No. of institutions saying 'yes')      51        79              55               62
 Number of days taken to complete
 semester/annual examination                     28        22              21                -
 Declaration of results under institution's
 control (No. of institutions saying 'yes')      46        68              48               54
Source: NPIU data

External Efficiency
There was a substantial improvement in the employment rates of both undergraduate and post-
graduate students and their average starting salaries through the life of the Project. From the data
available, campus employment rate is used as a proxy for overall employment rate as it is the most
reliable component of employment rate information, even though it will underestimate the true
employment rate. Over the Project period employment rate for UGs increased from 41% to 75%, and
for PGs more than doubled from 25% to 56%. Similarly, annual salaries increased by 75% and 90%
for UG and PG students respectively.

Benefit-Cost Analysis
An internal rate of return (IRR) analysis was done during Project appraisal under different (low, base-
case and high) scenarios of internal and external efficiency. IRR estimates from the analysis ranged
from a low of 3% to a high of 23%.
The benefit-cost analysis and estimate the IRR were redone based on data that is now available from
project institutions. Given the great difficulty of putting together counter-factual information (i.e.
labor market outcomes for project institutions in the absence of the Project), the assumptions made
under the `high' external efficiency scenario from the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) were
employed to describe the state of the world in the no-project case. All the assumptions used in the
analysis are listed below:
Assumptions for the IRR analysis:
 The employment rate increases by 1.5 percentage points every year in the no-project case.
 Wages increase annually by Rupees 3600 in the no-project case.

                                                  27
   The working life-time is counted from the time the student graduates to the time of retirement, i.e.
   from age 25 years to age 60 years.
   The discount rate is assumed to be 5% which is the average interest rate over the Project life-time.
   To ensure that our analysis is robust, we also estimate the IRR using a discount rate of 10%.
   Number of beneficiaries: the following shares of students by year were assumed to have benefited
   from the Project starting in 2003 when the Project became effective.
                Table 3.2: Share of students batch-wise benefiting from the project
                                         4 Year Graduate       2 Year Post-graduate
                       Year              Program (%)           Program (%)
                        2003                        0%                        0%
                        2004                       25%                       50%
                        2005                       50%                      100%
                        2006                       75%                      100%
                        2007                       100%                     100%
                        2008                       100%                     100%

   Costs of the Project are assumed to be only project costs. Zero opportunity costs are assumed
   because the students would have attended the college/university anyway even without the Project.
   Benefits of the Project are the higher employment rate and higher annual salaries of the student
   beneficiaries.
In the IRR analysis re-done with actual retrospective data, the internal rate of return is found to be
15% when the discount rate is 5% and 9% when the discount rate is 10%. Compared to the rate of
return on bank deposits and physical assets in the general economy which was 11-12%, the
investment in technical education/engineering was productive with the lower discount rate and
competitive with the higher one. Moreover, the IRR calculated thus is an under-estimate as it takes
into account only the labor market outcomes of students who passed through the project institutions
during the Project period. It does not take into account (a) future students who are also likely to
benefit at least in the medium term, (b) the contribution to the competitiveness and productivity of the
economy through improved skills of the engineering labor force and better R & D, (c) impact on the
local community and economy.
Financial Sustainability
The Project's financial sustainability will depend on willingness on the part of states and institutions
to support activities introduced during the Project. Institutions that have established the four funds can
continue activities through their judicious management and use. IRG especially from non-tuition
sources is another likely source of funds for continuous institutional development. While, it is likely
that most Project reforms will be sustained, certain activities such as faculty development, services to
community and economy, tribal development plan and networking will decline and eventually cease
over time if not financially supported by project institutions.




                                                   28
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                           Responsibility/
              Names                       Title                    Unit
                                                                             Specialty
Lending
Shashi K. Shrivastava      Task Team Leader                        SASHD
Sajitha Bashir             Senior Education Economist              SASHD
Ralph W. Harbison (late)   Consultant ­ Policy Planning            SASHD
C. S. Jha (late)           Consultant ­ Technical Education        SASHD
S. A. A. Alvi              Consultant ­ Project Implementation     SASHD
Vandana Sipahimalani Rao   Education Economist                     SASHD
Meera Chatterjee           Senior Social Development Specialist    SASDI
S. Krishnan                Senior Procurement Engineer             SARPS
                           Senior Financial Management
Rajat Narula                                                       SARFM
                           Specialist
                           Consultant ­ Science and Technology
Erik W. Thulstrup                                                  SASHD
                           Management
Sanjay Rastogi             Consultant - Financial Management       SARFM
D. K. Srivastava           Consultant - Economist                  SASHD
M.H.Dhananjaya             Consultant ­ Institutional Management   SASHD
Ravinder Kaur              Consultant ­ Social Development         SASDI
                           Manager (Education), HDNED ­ Peer
Jamil Salmi                                                        HDNED
                           Reviewer
                           Lead Education Specialist - Peer
Lauritz Holm-Neilsen
                           Reviewer
Amit Dar                   Senior Economist - Peer Reviewer        SASHD
Grant Sinclair             Lead Education Specialist - Advisor
Sara Gonzalez Flavell      Senior Counsel                          LEGMS
Gertrude Cooper            Program Assistant                       SASHD
Renu Gupta                 Program Assistant                       SASHD

Supervision/ICR
                           Task Team Leader (since Feb 2008)
Andreas Blom                                                       SASHD
                           and Senior Education Economist
Rajiv Aggarwal             Consultant                              EASHD
S. A. A. Alvi              Consultant                              SASHD
Kiran R. Baral             Sr Procurement Off.                     SARPS
Philip Beauregard          Sr Counsel                              LEGES
Asha Bhagat                E T Consultant                          SARFM
Hyacinth D. Brown          Senior Finance Officer                  LOAFC
Debabrata Chakraborti      Senior Procurement Specialist           SARPS
Mam Chand                  Consultant                              SARPS
Meera Chatterjee           Senior Social Development Specialist    SASDI
Isak Froumin               Senior Education Specialist             ECSHD
Sangeeta Goyal             Education Economist                     SASHD
Renu Gupta                 Program Assistant                       SASHD
Nalin Jena                 Senior Education Specialist             SASHD


                                           29
Chandra Shekhar Jha (late)   Consultant                             SASHD
A.K.Kalesh Kumar             Senior Procurement Specialist          SARPS
                             Senior Financial Management
Tanuj Mathur                                                        SARFM
                             Specialist
Hena G. Mukherjee            Consultant                             ECSHD
Michelle Riboud              Consultant                             HDNED
Hiroshi Saeki                Operations Analyst                     SASHD
                             Task Team Leader (till Feb 2008) and
Shashi K. Shrivastava                                               SASHD
                             Consultant
Elfreda Vincent              Program Assistant                      SASHD


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                           USD Thousands (including
                                         No. of staff weeks
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                          19                           67.29
  FY02                                          35                          116.98
  FY03                                          14                           57.58
  FY04                                                                        0.00
  FY05                                                                        0.00
  FY06                                                                        0.00
  FY07                                                                        0.00
  FY08                                                                        0.00

                             Total:             68                          241.85
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                                        0.00
  FY02                                                                        0.00
  FY03                                           7                           30.68
  FY04                                          18                           92.88
  FY05                                          16                           99.45
  FY06                                          21                          126.66
  FY07                                          15                          116.57
  FY08                                          38                          241.38
  FY09                                          46                          188.78
 FY10                                            3                            3.25

                             Total:           164                           899.65




                                             30
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Two types of beneficiary surveys were carried out under the Project. These were (a) student and
faculty satisfaction surveys done every six months in all project institutions and (b) an implementation
survey of SPFU members, and faculty in project institutions responsible for implementing the Project.
The implementation survey was conducted by the task team in 2008.

Satisfaction Surveys
Satisfaction surveys of students and faculty belonging to project institutions ­ were carried out every
six months during the Project totaling to 7 complete usable surveys by the time of Project close. The
surveys were conducted by auditors through questionnaire based interviews of randomly selected
samples of students in all project institutions. Responses were aggregated to create indices for overall
satisfaction and for satisfaction with different aspects of TEQIP.

Table 5.1 shows the national average for the student satisfaction scores (on a 10-point scale) across
the last 5 rounds by Project implementation element and for the overall Project.

                   Table 5.1: Satisfaction Scores by Project Element and Round
                                                                       Round
                    Project Element                       3      4       5        6       7
 Project Implementation                                    5    5.6     6.2      6.7     6.9
 Implementation of Institutional Reforms                  5.5   6.3     6.9      7.3     7.7
 Administrative and Managerial Efficiency Improvement     5.6   6.3     7.1      7.7     7.9
 Quality of Education, Training and Services              5.3   5.9     6.5       7      7.3
 Overall Performance                                      5.3    6      6.6       7      7.4

Table 5.2 below shows the overall student satisfaction scores by states and CFIs for the same five
rounds. For each state/CFI there is a positive trend in the satisfaction scores. In round 3, the mean was
6.67 and standard deviation 0.80; in round 7 which is the last round, the mean had increased to 8.5
and the standard deviation had declined to 0.5 ­ students' satisfaction was higher on the average
towards the end of the Project and more tightly distributed around this high average. Statistical testing
of means differences between the base-line and Project close outcome data show that there is a strong
likelihood that the Project influenced the outcomes positively.

             Table 5.2: Calculated Student Satisfaction Scores by States and Rounds
                                      Round Round Round Round Round
                       State
                                        3         4        5        6         7
                Andhra Pradesh            8.2       8.5         8.9      9.0       9.1
                Gujarat                   5.9       5.8         7.8      9.0       9.2
                Haryana                   7.1       7.3         8.0      8.3       8.3
                Himachal Pradesh          5.6       6.1         7.3      8.1       8.2
                Jharkhand                 5.6       6.7         7.6      7.8       8.2
                Karnataka                 6.6       7.4         8.0      8.4       8.8
                Kerala                    5.8       6.3         6.4      7.1       7.8
                Madhya Pradesh            6.3       6.7         6.9      7.2       7.6
                Maharashtra               7.5       8.3         8.7      9.0       9.1
                Tamil Nadu                6.7       7.4         8.0      8.2       8.4
                Uttar Pradesh             7.1       7.8         7.8      8.3       8.4
                Uttaranchal               6.3       8.1         7.9      8.4       8.5
                West Bengal               7.6       8.3         8.4      8.7       8.9
                CFI                       7.2       7.7         8.3      8.7       9.1




                                                   31
Implementation Survey
An implementation survey was undertaken by the World Bank in 2008 to gain an understanding of the
design, implementation and impact from the point of view of its key implementers. A web-based
questionnaire was sent to the key officers of the SPFUs and the project institutions implementing the
Project on their satisfaction with and views on the overall Project and its components, and
implementation support they received from the central and state governments, and the World Bank.
170+ entries were received from a total of 350 respondents to whom the questionnaire was sent
(response rate: approximately 50%). Anonymity of respondents was strictly maintained in the survey

The main results of the implementation survey are provided in Table 5.3 below. A majority of the
respondents expressed a high level of satisfaction with the overall Project, its design and
implementation. There was also an overall high level of satisfaction among the respondents with the
support provided by NPIU/MHRD, SPFUs and the World Bank. The respondents identified (a)
teacher-training infrastructure, equipment, the concept of holistic development and improvement in
the quality of education as the best features of the Project and (b) excessive paper-work, lack of
government policy for autonomy, lack of rewards for good performance, and lack of focus on real
constraints on quality as the Project's weakest features. For implementation, the feedback providers
certain areas for improvement with respect to Project design and implementation.

                                   Table 5.3: Results of Feedback Survey
 Question
                                                                                                    Average
 Overall impact (Please rate how much you agree with the following statements, 1 meaning         Rating on a
 you strongly disagree, 10 meaning you strongly agree).                                           scale from
                                                                                                   one to ten
 I feel proud to be associated with the TEQIP Project                                                   9.58
 I feel satisfied with the overall impact of the Project                                                8.55
 I feel satisfied with the overall design of the Project                                                8.34
 I feel satisfied with the overall implementation of the Project                                        8.11
 Please rate your views on the following statements (1 being strongly disagree, 10 strongly
 agree)
 The Project design rightly focused on promotion of academic excellence                                 8.75
 The Project rightly allowed freedom to institutions to choose their own path for achieving
 academic excellence                                                                                    8.38
 Competitive selection of Institutions has been a very welcome feature of the Project.                  8.83
 Implementation of competitive funding process was cost- and time efficient                             8.32
 Services to the Community has been useful to students in identifying real life problems                7.31
 Networking has increased professional outputs (publications, products, designs, patents, etc)
 from participating institutions                                                                        7.14
 Policy Reforms Please rate your impression of the policy reforms (1 strongly disagree, 10
 strongly agree)

 The intended government policy reforms (autonomy and block grants) have been achieved                  6.94
 Institutions are able to exercise with confidence whatever autonomies that were granted to
 them                                                                                                   8.04
 The BOGs are functioning and are able to guide institutional development and Project
 implementation                                                                                         7.97
 Institutional Reforms Please rate your impression of the institutional reforms introduced
 under the Project (1 strongly disagree, 10 strongly agree)

 The intended institutional reforms have been achieved.                                                 8.09
 The reforms were clearly and timely understood by the Head of Institution and Heads of
 Departments.                                                                                           8.04


                                                        32
All the faculty members were aware of the desired reforms                                         7.84
Reforms with financial implications were difficult to implement.                                  6.07
Student appraisal of teachers' performance was useful in improving teaching-training
performance of teachers.                                                                          8.36
Incentives to teachers and recognition of their merit have been implemented.                      6.55
The 4 funds established during Project-life will be useful in the future.                         8.28
Implementation of Soft components (Faculty Development, Networking, Service to
economy and Tribal Development) Please rate how much you agree with the following
statements (1 strongly disagree, 10 strongly agree)

The soft components received high attention from the on-set of the Project                        7.64
Faculty development was undertaken based on institutional needs                                   8.11
Faculty Development is well organized in the institutions                                         7.85
Networking is a low priority for achievement of institutional excellence                          4.85
Service to Community and Economy is central to my institution's mission                           7.26
Support to weak students (Tribal Development) is central to my institution's mission              8.22
The goals of Service to Community and Economy and Tribal Development were clearly and
timely understood by the institutions                                                             7.24
Joint Review Missions (JRMs) Please rate your impression of the JRMs (1 strongly disagree,
10 strongly agree)
Motivated States and institutions to implement the Project.                                       8.74
Improved understanding of the objective and spirit of TEQIP.                                      8.84
Identified shortcomings in implementation and in the development of plans for better
performance.                                                                                      8.63
Provided useful advice for improving quality of education and training.                           8.72
Provided an opportunity for sharing of experiences and learning best practices.                   8.96
Provided guidance on procedures and rules for implementation.                                     8.79
Project monitoring and reporting Please rate how much you agree with the following
statements (1 meaning you strongly disagree, 10 meaning you strongly agree).

I am satisfied by the quality and quantity of information on Project performance that I receive   8.25
Information and data called for by the World Bank/ NPIU/SPFU was excessive                        7.52
NPIU's Review Reports for the JRMs gave a holistic picture of the performance of each
institution/state                                                                                 8.57
Stakeholder responses contained in the Tally Sheets are useful                                    8.12
The performance audits are useful and motivating                                                  8.72
A web-based MIS would have been an efficient method for data and information reporting.           9.04
Financial Management and Procurement (fiduciary procedures) Please rate how much you
agree with the following statements (1 meaning you strongly disagree, 10 meaning you
strongly agree).
I have adequate knowledge of World Bank procedures for procurement to perform my job.             8.62
Training in the World Bank procedures for procurement was adequate.                               8.23
The procurement procedures achieved economy, efficiency, transparency and fairness.               8.70
I have adequate knowledge of World Bank procedures and requirements for financial
management to perform my job.                                                                     8.69
Training in the World Bank's requirement for financial management was adequate.                   8.20
The World Bank procedures are cumbersome.                                                         5.20
Implementation and monitoring of the fiduciary responsibility was adequate.                       8.22
Please rate how much you agree with the following statements (1 meaning you strongly
disagree, 10 meaning you strongly agree)

The Project increased production of high quality graduates                                        8.10


                                                      33
The Project increased demand from industry for high quality professionals                            7.75
The Project increased cooperation and resource sharing between institutions                          7.85
The Project increased involvement of institutions with communities                                   8.01
The Project improved internal efficiency of project institutions                                     8.55
The Project improved efficiency of the State's engineering education system                          8.18
Please select the Project's best and second best features by scoring on two of   Best         Second Best
the following statements:                                                        Feature      Feature
Implementation of policy reforms (autonomies and block grant)                         10.6%          2.8%
Support based upon the merit of each institution's proposal                            4.3%          3.5%
Improvement in teaching-training infrastructure                                       22.7%         19.1%
Provision of equipment to help improve quality research                               15.6%         15.6%
Improvement in quality of education in institutions                                   20.6%         22.7%
Changed of mindset of faculty                                                          9.2%         10.6%
Reforms led to holistic development of institutions                                   13.5%         12.8%
Constant monitoring of implementation and performance                                  2.8%         12.1%
There was no impact                                                                    0.7%          0.7%
                                                                                              Second
Please select the greatest and the second greatest weakness of the Project by    Greatest
                                                                                              Greatest
scoring on two of the following statements:                                      Weakness
                                                                                              Weakness
Lack of coordination between participating agencies                                    7.1%         6.4%
Absence of Government policy support for autonomy                                     15.6%         4.3%
Absence of Government policy support for institutional reforms                         5.7%         7.8%
Inadequate guidance on Project concepts                                                5.0%         5.0%
Absence of reward for good performance                                                17.7%        25.5%
No focus on the real constraints for quality                                          10.6%        10.6%
Too much paperwork                                                                    29.1%        19.1%
Too little capacity building                                                           1.4%         7.8%
No weaknesses                                                                          7.8%        13.5%
Performance of the World Bank Please rate the work of the World Bank in TEQIP (1 being
very poor, 10 being very good).
I feel satisfied with the performance of the World Bank                                              8.89
Collaboration with national and state governments                                                    8.25
Provision of technical assistance as and when required                                               8.20
Provision of timely and adequate information                                                         8.37
Responsiveness to inquiries                                                                          8.39
Support with Procurement in terms of procedures and guidelines                                       8.59
Support with Financial management in terms of procedures, rules and budgeting                        8.51
Performance of NPIU/MHRD Please rate the work of the NPIU/MHRD in TEQIP (1 being
very poor, 10 being very good).
Overall, I feel satisfied with the performance of NPIU/MHRD                                          8.48
Collaboration with state governments and institutions                                                8.35
Timeliness and adequacy of help and guidance                                                         8.27
Responsiveness to inquiries                                                                          8.38
Support with procurement in terms of procedures and guidelines                                       8.54
Support with financial management in terms of procedures, rules and budgeting                        8.40
Performance of State Governments SPFUs Please rate the contribution of your State
government in TEQIP (1 being very poor, 10 being very good).

Overall, I feel satisfied with the performance on the SPFU that I work with                          8.23
Timely provision of funds for institutional Project implementation                                   8.36
Providing periodic guidance on Project concepts and Bank procedures                                  8.01


                                                      34
Responsiveness to inquiries                                                                   8.15
Facilitating training of faculty and staff                                                    7.65
Motivating institutions to enhance their achievements under the Project                       8.19
Promoting effective networking among institutions                                             7.40
Support with financial management in terms of procedures, rules and budgeting                 8.12
Support with procurement in terms of procedures and guidelines                                8.08
Performance of Mentors and Auditors Please rate your satisfaction with Mentoring and
Performance Auditing (1 being strongly disagree, 10 strongly agree).
Overall, I feel satisfied with the contribution of Mentors to TEQIP                           8.09
Mentors helped in better understanding of Project concepts                                    7.94
Mentors helped in improved planning of faculty development activities                         7.76
Mentors helped in achieving excellence in teaching and training                               7.75
Results and suggestions from performance auditors helped in improving institutional Project
implementation                                                                                8.56




                                                    35
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

The 10th and last JRM for the Project in January 2009 was combined with an ICR mission. Detailed
preliminary findings for the ICR were presented to and discussed with the JRM participants. This was
a good opportunity to revisit Project design and implementation from the perspective of the
experience of the actual implementers, and their views inform the messages presented in this ICR.




                                                36
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                         37
38
                                            Borrower's ICR

 I.     Background

 Technical Education Quality Improvement Programme of Government of India (TEQIP), aims to
 upscale and support ongoing efforts of GoI to improve quality of technical education and enhance
 existing capacities of the institutions to become dynamic, demand-driven, quality conscious, efficient
 and forward looking, responsive to rapid economic & technological developments occurring both at
 National & International levels. The programme was designed as a Centrally Coordinated, multi-state
 and long term of 10 to 12 years period.

 II. Project Description

 The first phase of TEQIP supported 127 Technical Education Institutions; consisting of 18 Centrally
 Funded Institutions (CFIs), and 68 State Government Funded Institutions, 22 Private Unaided
 Institutions and 19 Polytechnics from 13 States. List of Project Institutions is given in Annexure I.

        The Project components:

 1) Institutional Development

        a) Promotion of Academic Excellence
        b) Networking of Institutions for Quality Enhancement and Resource Sharing
        c) Enhancing Quality and Reach of Services to Community & Economy

 2) System Management Capacity Improvement

        Unique Features of the Project

           o   Freedom to Institutions to develop their own Institutional Plan (the top down approach
               was rejected)
           o   Freedom to Institutions to determine their own path for excellence

 III.      Project Objectives

 To create an environment in which Engineering Institutions selected under the Programme can
 achieve their own set targets for excellence and sustain the same with autonomy & accountability.
 To support development plans including synergistic Networking and Services to Community &
 Economy of competitively selected institutions for achieving higher standards.
 To improve efficiency and effectiveness of the technical education management system in the States
 and institutions selected under the Programme.

 IV. Achievement of Project Objectives

 The component wise achievements are described below:

 A. Institutional Development
 a) Promotion of Academic Excellence: The academic excellence in the project institutions was
    achieved as described below:

 (i)       Accreditation: During the Project period overall, 93% of eligible UG courses and 83% of
           eligible PG courses were either accredited or applied for. In the States of Andhra Pradesh,
           Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra and Tamilnadu the eligible courses were
           accredited in the range of 90 to 100%. In the same range, the PG eligible courses were


                                                   39
         accredited in the States of Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Kerala & Uttarakhand. It is note-worthy
         to mention that all the eligible UG and PG courses were accredited in the 10 CFIs.
(ii)     Faculty and Staff Positions: During the Project period 88% of the sanctioned faculty
         positions and 78% of the staff positions were filled. 12% vacancy of faculty positions at the
         national level existed at the end of the Project. However, in many institutions, 30 % positions
         remained vacant against the sanctioned positions, due to varied reasons such as non-
         availability of qualified & experienced faculty and eligible faculty from the reserved
         categories. On account of introduction of new courses in the Project, additional 476 faculty
         and 548 staff positions were filled.
(iii)    Faculty and Staff Development: Faculty and Staff Development (FSD) was stressed upon
         throughout the Project period. A study on, "Assessment of Faculty Development/Training
         under TEQIP and Approach to Scale-up for Future" was conducted for a sample of 35
         institutes (Summary of the study report is given in Annexure II). The study revealed that the
         75-100 % faculty undertook the training in pedagogy, subject competence, laboratory
         development, research competence, management skills, continuing education, qualification
         up-gradation, and in consultancy. Training Need Analysis (TNA) was required to be
         conducted by each institution regularly keeping in view the career objectives and institutional
         goals. There was plenty of scope to improve the method adopted for TNA. The faculty could
         not proceed for training due to academic commitments leading to gaps in achievements.
         Contract faculty in most cases was not sent for the training. Institutions reported that the
         faculty on an average got training for 8 days per person. Similarly, technical staff undertook
         short-term and long-term trainings during the Project with an average of 7 days per staff on
         industrial training and processes, laboratory and workshop instructions, maintenance of
         laboratory and workshop equipment, etc.
(iv)     Modernization of Teaching Learning Facilities: The provision for Goods was made for
         modernization of laboratories/ computer centers, setting up of new laboratories improving
         teaching learning process etc. Computer Centers in all the 127 Institutions were modernized
         with state-of-the art facilities. Campus wide Networking was also developed in all the Project
         Institutions. The facilities like multimedia lab, e- library, e- journals; EDUSAT, etc. were
         added in all the Institutions. Eighty project institutions obtained membership of the Indian
         National Digital Library in Engineering Science & Technology (INDEST) Consortium. 38
         new constructions like computer centers, libraries, media-centers, etc. were carried out and
         put to use. In addition, the refurbishment of 98 buildings; renovation of 153 laboratories and
         extensions to 51 buildings were also carried out.
(v)      Revision of Existing Courses: With the implementation of academic autonomy, 91% of the
         765 UG/Diploma and 556 PG/Post Diploma courses were revised by the State Project
         institutions and CFIs revised 100% of their courses.
(vi)     Starting of New Courses: A total of 164 new courses consisting of 136 PG and 28 UG
         courses were proposed to be started. However, out of which only 89 PG (66%) and 20 UG
         (71%) courses were started during the Project period. Given the diminished and unforeseen
         decline in demand for PG courses from students for those proposed initially, starting of all
         new PG courses, did not make it economically viable and hence the shortfall of 55 courses
         remained. However, institutions offered other UG and PG courses on demand other than
         listed in the Project with their own funds.
(vii)    Evaluation and Placement of Students: The students' performance was evaluated
         systematically through periodic tests, assignments, tutorials and holding technical
         competitions. This helped in improving the percentage of high quality graduates (those
         passing with 75% or above or equivalent overall GPA) increased from 35 % to 50% in UG
         and 36% to 51% in PG during the Project period. The employability of UG students increased
         from 41% at base year to 76% and for yability of PG students it increased from 25% at base
         year to 56% at the end of the Project. The average annual emolument of the UG students
         increased to Rs. 0.290 millions from Rs. 0.166 millions and in case of PG, it increased to Rs.
         0.358 millions from Rs. 0.190 millions.
(viii)   Academic Output: The most significant academic outputs of the Project were demonstrated
         through increased research publications, patents, research guidance and technology transfer.

                                                  40
         The creditable achievement is in the area of publication of Research Papers from the Project
         institutions. The baseline figure for publications was 4951 in the year 2003-04. The target set
         for the achievements was 100% increase. Whereas the actual achievement was 700% i.e.
         37,542 papers were published at the end of the Project. A total of 290 R&D products were
         commercialized, 180 patents were obtained and 376 applied for. The enrollment of students in
         PG courses was increased to 13,389 from 8,942 in the project institutions. Similarly, the Ph.D.
         students' enrollment was increased to 2,043 from 1,212 from base year 2003-04 and 587 Ph.
         Ds were awarded every year in the project institutions. This increase of PG and Ph.D.
         enrollment is expected to mitigate partially the shortage of faculty.
 (ix)    Tribal Development Plan (TDP): All the 127 Institutes implemented a wide range of
         measures to assist socio-economically disadvantaged and academically weak students.
         Institutions developed a systematic approach of Diagnostic Test to assess the student's
         academic weakness and provided them with appropriate `remedies'. A total of 1797 activities
         including remedial teaching, coaching for communication skills development, summer
         schools, grievance re-dressal, earn-while-learn scheme, etc. were undertaken.

 b) Networking of Institutions for Quality Enhancement and Resource Sharing

 Through Networking of Institutions 786 joint R & D projects, 1339 joint consultancies, 4417 joint
 publications, 1452 joint training and continuing education programmes, 1713 joint guidance for M.
 Tech. & Ph. D. and 2357 joint seminars and conferences were conducted. The details of activities
 carried out during the project period are graphically represented in the figure 4.1.

                                                                                 6
                                                                                 0
            1200                                                                 1
                                                                                 1
                                                                           4 1
                                                                             1
            1000                                                           9 9
                                                                           8                                                                         2003-04
                                                                                     7                                                      6
                                                                                                                                            0
             800                                                                     7
                                                                                     6
                                                                                                                                            7        2004-05
                                                                       5
                                                                       4                                                                1       9
                                                                       5                                                                0
             600                                                                                   4 5
                                                                                                     5
                                                                                                                     4 5
                                                                                                                     5 5              2 5       7
                                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                 5 3 4               4 4              2              2005-06
                                                  2 0                                            7 4             0                    4
                                                7 1 9
                                                                   4                           4 3               4
             400                  6             3 3 2 6
                                                                   8
                                                                   2                           7               8 3
                                9 3           3 2                                              2               3                                     2006-07
                              1 9 2 1         8       8                                                        2                  9
                            5 6 1   5         1       1 1
                                                        3
                                                                                                             8                    6
                            0 1     1                   1                                  4               8 2                    1
             200          0 1
                          7                                                              5 9               9 1                0
                                                                                                                              8
                                                                                         5                                                           2007-08
                0
             Externally Funded Joint R & D Joint Consultancies
                                           projects              Joint Publications & Continuing Education Programs forJoint Seminars, Conferences
                                                                       Joint Training        Joint Research Guidance    M.Tech./Ph.D.
                                                                                                                                                     2008-09




   Figure 4.1: Year wise activities - Networking of Institutions for Quality Enhancement and Resource Sharing

 The concept of Lead and Networking was incorporated in the project design, where Lead Institution
 (40) would Network (68) with the other Institutions in its proximity so that the institutions could
 benefit mutually by sharing each other's resources. But the achievements under this sub-component
 were not up to the desired level. As networking partners were pre fixed, in many cases like NIT
 Jalandhar, NIT Jaipur, etc., which was Lead Institutions, could not network as no other project
 Institution was in their proximity as the States of Punjab and Rajasthan did not join the project.

 c) Enhancing Quality and Reach of Services to Community & Economy

A total of 4,388 activities were conducted. Mini-projects like biogas plants, solar energy harvesting,
rainwater conservation and its utilization for housework, recycling of waste paper, fertilizer from
garbage, etc. were developed, which benefited a total of 5,16,300 community, in the vicinity of the
institutions.




                                                                                 41
B. System Management Capacity Improvement
   For the effective exercise of autonomy, each project institutions was to establish a Board of
   Governors (BoG) for guiding the institutions for the overall development. Consequently, 122
   institutions had established BoG with participation of eminent Educationist & Industrialists including

                                          No. of training organized                 No. of persons trained

                     0
                     0
                     0
                     6                                                                6
                                                                                      4
                                                                                      9
                     0                                                                4
                     0
                     0
                     5
                     0
                     0
                     0
                     4
                     0                                                                                2
                     0                                                    4                           6
                     0                                                    2                           2
                     3                                                    1                           2
                                                                          2
                     0
                     0
                     0
                     2
                                                        6
                     0                                  6
                                                        6             2         0
                     0
                     0                                                9         4                             4
                     1                9            4                  2         3                9            4
                             0        0            1                                             7            2
                             4        2            1                                             1
                     0
                            2003-04              2004-05          2005-06     2006-07           2007-08      2008-


    stakeholders. During the project period BoG meetings in the range of 2-4 were held at the respective
    institution. 88% of the institutions were granted full managerial autonomy. 1,209 training programmes
    on planning and management were arranged benefiting 13,531 officials. The details of the System
    Management Capacity Improvement training programmes conducted by the institutions during the
    project is graphically represented in fig.4.2. Seventy-seven institutions under the project enhanced
    administrative and management capacities by fully computerizing their financial management system,
    students record and faculty records.

    NPIU arranged training programme to increase the `Management Capacity Development' of
    Institutions and SPFUs for 135 senior faculty and officials of SPFUs at MDI Gurgaon. In addition,
    NPIU organized two programmes at AIT, Bangkok on `System Management & Capacity
    Improvement of Technical Education' in which 6 Directors of Technical Education, 16 NIT
    Directors/HoDs and 4 MHRD/NPIU officials participated. Similarly, 13 NIT Directors and 7
    MHRD/NPIU officials visited Finland, Germany and USA through three Study & Networking Tours
    organized by NPIU.

    V. Academic and Non-Academic Reforms
    A series of Academic and Non-Academic Reforms were undertaken to improve the efficiency of the
    Institutions and make the academic process more flexible for the students. Following are the
    achievements:
         68% (86) of the Institutions (18 CFIs + 68 State Institutions) achieved full academic
             autonomy and 32 substantial autonomy.
         87% of the Institutions implemented full financial autonomy, 80% implemented full
             administrative autonomy and 88% implemented full managerial autonomy, while remaining
             institutions were granted substantial administrative, managerial and financial autonomies.
         98% of the Institutions established all four funds (Corpus, Staff Development, Maintenance
             and Depreciation funds) for continuous improvement and sustaining gains after the closure of
             the project.
         Block grant scheme was introduced fully in 1 State (Haryana) and partially in 9 States.
         All the 18 CFIs complied with all the Legal Covenants and Institutional Reforms except the
             block grant funding.
         The number of days required to complete the admission process got reduced to 33 from 41.
         The number of days required to conduct the examination got reduced to 22 from 28.


                                                               42
The States of Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra,
Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal complied well with the major Academic and Non-Academic reforms.

VI. Utilization of Funds & Financial Management
The project was declared effective on March 12, 2003 and closed on March 31, 2009 with 9 months
(actual date of closure of project was June 30, 2008) extension to achieve higher objectives and
reduce the gap for the second phase of TEQIP. The signed amount was Rs. 15,500 million
(US$ 281.2509 million) and nearly US$ 40 million was diverted to aid the Tsunami disaster victims in
December 2004. The total funds utilized at the end of the project (as on 30th June 2009) were Rs.
13241.182 millions (99.42%) against the funds release of Rs. 13318.306 millions. CFIs and States
also earned an interest of Rs. 391.059 million on grants released for project. The utilization of the
funds planned initially did not match with actual utilization of funds as providing training on financial
guidelines took time. However, as the project progressed, the funds utilized exceeded the planned
utilization of funds. The year wise utilization of funds planned and the actually utilized is represented
in figure 6.1 and details of utilization of funds are given in Annexure III.
                                                                           Utilization of funds planned as per PIP                        Actual utilization of funds




                                                                                                                               4728.531
                              5000




                                                                                                                                                       3700.459
                              4000




                                                                                      4626.000



                                                                                                   3167.800
          Funds in Millions




                                                                                                              4209.000
                              3000




                                                               3866.000
                              2000




                                                                            604.806




                                                                                                                                                                        588.431
                              1000




                                                                                                                                                                                        409.455
                                                                                                                                            1589.000
                                     1210.000



                                                  41.700
                              0




                                            2003-04                   2004-05                2005-06                 2006-07                    2007-08           2008-09         2009-10



                                                           Figure 6.1: Year wise Funds Planned & Actual Utilized

Financial Management Manual was developed by NPIU and made available to all the Project States
and Institutions, which included guidelines regarding audit process, instructions, time lines, terms of
references and formats, etc, that resulted in better quality Financial Management at the Project States
and Institutions. The impact was assessed as the FMRs were being received regularly and timely. The
information presented in FMRs matched with the disbursement summary of the World Bank. FMRs
were also used as a tool for monitoring the progress on the Project and reviewing the performance of
the States and Institutions. The process of the filing the reimbursement claims was based on Statement
of Expenditure (SOEs). Adequate training on financial management and reimbursement claim
process was given to States and Institutions.

VII. Project Implementation Mechanism
The National Project Implementation Unit (NPIU) was the nodal agency at the National Level for
facilitating, monitoring and implementation of the project. The State Project Facilitating Units
(SPFUs) of 13 project States performed similar functions for the institutions in their respective States.
The 18 Centrally Funded Institutions (CFIs) were facilitated by NPIU. Each institution had a TEQIP
cell with a coordinator for academic, procurement and finance.




                                                                                                       43
The above structure functioned very well in the later stages of the project, as each State took its time
in forming the SPFU. The SPFU and State Institutions staff got benefited from 12 workshops on
Implementation, 12 workshops on Fiduciary Aspects and 14 workshops and trainings on Financial
Management and repeated short-term technical assistance throughout Project Implementation by
MHRD/NPIU.

All 127 project Institutions undertook a self-assessment on the performance of their Institution. The
States of Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand
and West Bengal implemented the project well and showed more effective performance and
achievements, as the SPFU team maintained the continuity of officials during the entire project period.
The States of Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkand, Kerala, Tamil Nadu experienced difficulty in
implementing the project due to the frequent changes at the SPFU team of officials.

Monitoring & Evaluation: The project was regularly monitored through organizing bi-annual Joint
Review Missions (JRM). Ten JRMs were held at different locations, keeping in view to assist the
participating States in the best possible manner. The Principal Secretaries, Directors of State
Technical Education, SPFUs, Institution officials and officials from MHRD/NPIU took active part
along with the World Bank. The JRMs helped not only in monitoring the achievements, but also gave
solutions to the identified problems. It is worth mentioning that in one of the JRMs, Mentoring of
Institutions was suggested; through the experienced educationists who provided guidance to the
Institutions for effective implementation of the project. Thus, the mentoring of the institutions became
the unique feature of this project. Subsequently, seven rounds of mentoring were carried out through
mentors who also acted as Guide and Facilitator to help Institutions to achieve both the output and
outcome targets, identify delays and shortfalls and suggested remedial actions.

The mentoring of the project was also done through monitoring of the Key Performance Indicators,
Post Procurement Audits and Post Civil Works Reviews. The evaluation of the project was done
through the Performance Audit, Studies & Surveys.

The details of the Mentoring & Evaluation parameters are given below:

(i) Key Performance Indicators: In pursuance of achieving the institutional development objectives
    and institutional reforms, the performance of the Project Institution was measured through the key
    output indicators and outcome indicators. The key output indicators were designed as 1) Number
    of graduates successfully completing a UG course, 2) Number of PG students, 3) Professional
    Outputs, 4) Internal Revenue Generation, 5) Number of joint programmes/ activities from formal
    networking, 6) Services to Community and Economy and 7) Availability of trained institution
    managers

    Similarly, following five outcome indicators were designed as 1) Employment rate and earnings
    of engineering graduated and postgraduates, 2) Cooperation and resource sharing between TEQIP
    institutions, 3) Internal efficiency of the engineering education system, 4) Services to Community
    & Economy and 5) Planning of management of technical education system and the outcome is
    given below:
            Enhanced Academic Excellence through increased employment rate and earnings of
               engineering graduates and Postgraduates.
            Enhanced Formal Networking through Cooperation and Resource sharing between
               TEQIP Institutions.
            Enhanced Internal efficiency of the engineering education system through training to
               institutional faculty, staff and management.
            Enhanced Services to Community and Economy through involvement of institutions
               with the community.




                                                  44
               The most significant output of the project was all round encouragement to creative and
               innovative endeavors demonstrated through publications, patents, R & D, and
               technology innovations, etc.

(ii) Post Procurement Audits: The World Bank appointed Auditors conducted yearly audit of the
     Procurement activities undertaken by institutions during the year. On a sample basis Post
     Procureemnt Audit was done in six State and two CFIs namely the States of Gujarat, Maharashtra,
     Karanataka, Himachal Pradesh, Tamilnadu and Uttar Pradesh and NIT Hamirpur and VNIT
     Nagpur. Also all the institutions were advised to conduct self-audits in the later period of the
     project. The observations made by the World Bank Auditors were sent to the respective
     State/Institutions for their compliance.

    In addition to Post Procurement Audit, the Procurement Management System was also reviewed
    at NIT Calicut and in the States of Andhra Pradesh and Kerala.

(iii) Post Civil Works reviews: The Post Civil Works reviews were conducted to assess the quality of
      the construction and its conformity to the design & specifications and timely completion. NPIU,
      World Bank and SPFUs together conducted the Civil Works review at 10 construction sites in the
      states of Karnataka, Uttarakhand & West Bengal. Review remarks were shared with the SPFU,
      identifying areas for improvements and the methods to ensure timely completion of works.

(iv) Performance Audit: A 70-member panel of highly experienced academicians from institutions
     of repute viz. IITs, NITs, IISc, etc. was formed to carry out rigorous assessment of performance
     audit. 7 rounds of Performance Audit assessment (perceived scores) and 5 rounds of stakeholders'
     assessments (calculated scores) were carried out. National averages of the Perceived and
     Calculated Scores were 8.5 and 7.4 respectively at the end of the project (Annexure IX). The
     States of Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Karnataka achieved scores of 9.1, 9.2 and 8.8 respectively
     which were above the National Average of Perceived Scores. Similarly, the States of Andhra
     Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka, Tamilnadu, Uttrakhand, West Bengal and Himachal Pradesh
     achieved scores of 8.0, 7.7, 7.6, 7.5, 7.7, 7.9 and 7.5 respectively which were above the National
     Average for Calculated Scores.

(v) Studies and Surveys: The Project carried out relevant research studies and surveys as discussed
    below:
    1) Study on Assessment of Faculty Development/Training under TEQIP and Approach to Scale-
        up for Future, with the objectives:

             I) To assess the gains in faculty development/training,
             II) To identify the reasons for deficiencies noticed in meeting the desired objectives for
                  faculty development/ training,
             III) To identify best practices for faculty development/training in the project, and
             IV) To recommend actions for scaling-up faculty development/ training and making the
                  process more effective in future

Conclusion of the Study: Many of the Institutions have a good record of faculty development/training
for many years, even in the pre-TEQIP period. However, this has been properly oriented, funded and
strengthened during the TEQIP period. This activity has to be nurtured further, maintained and
formalized in the post-TEQIP period as well. Although the progress of the TEQIP activities at many
of the Institutions was slow in the initial years, subsequent progress was observed to be quite good. It
is too early to see the results of faculty development/training initiatives taken up under the TEQIP
scheme. However, the initial outcome is indicative of a need to broaden/deepen training in all areas of
academic work, like curriculum planning/design, course presentation/ delivery/ examinations etc. The
initial results of faculty development/training programs conducted under TEQIP are indeed
encouraging. In general, the assessors have observed that due to the participation in the TEQIP, the
faculty development/training programs at the institutions got properly oriented, funded and

                                                  45
strengthened. It was also noted that the faculty members and the institutions gained significantly as a
result of the TEQIP. For example, the program has given opportunity to the faculty members for up-
gradation of their qualification, participation in national/international conferences and participation in
various types of training activities making them better equipped professionally. Summary of the
study is given in Annexure II.

      2) Faculty Satisfaction Survey: The faculty satisfaction survey examined faculty with
         emphasizes on faculty's working environment. The overall faculty satisfaction increased from
         55% in 2006 to 69.1% in 2008.
      3) Student Satisfaction Survey: The student satisfaction survey illustrated students' satisfaction
         of the institutions and also measured how the project improved the quality of engineering
         education. The average student satisfaction score increased from 6.67 to 8.5 (by 27%) over
         the life of the project, on a scale of point 10.
      4) Implementation Survey: The objective of the implementation survey was to gain an
         understanding of the design, implementation and impact from the viewpoint of its
         implementers. The web-based questioner was sent to the officials of SPFUs and project
         institutions implementing unit and MHRD/NPIU officials.

VIII. Bank Performance: The Bank task team's contributions during Project conception, design,
planning and implementation and their visits to various sites and frequent interaction with central and
state government officials had significantly helped in making the Project implementation a success.
The World Bank Project team handled the implementation with great understanding and adopted a
supportive role. This accelerated clearance of various proposals and Project progress and ensured
target accomplishment. Bank officials provided guidance on all issues and fiduciary management, in
conjunction with the NPIU to the States. The excellent support provided by the World Bank, its
mission members, the architect, consultants and other officials is highly appreciated.

IX.     Borrower Performance

During the preparation, the concept was shared and discussed with all the stakeholders and consensus
was built for change in the technical education system through an extensive process of consultations
with beneficiaries, but some implementation difficulties were encountered in the initial stage.
Borrowers learnt from experience during the Project and ensured timely outcomes and achievements.
State level implementation mechanism closely monitored the Project and worked for achieving
targets. The National Project Directorate guided and facilitated Project implementation at all stages
and monitored Project closely with NPIU. During each JRM, NPIU team prepared and delivered to
the bank well-documented project implementation progress reports. It enabled the Project States in
overcoming obstacles, which impeded developments. Consensus about the strategies and measures
was visible right through the Project in all activities.

X.      Key Lessons Learnt

      The institutions and States were confused about the concept of Services to community and
      economy. There was less participation of students and faculty in these activities. For greater
      participation of students and faculty, an element of incentive could have included in the design.
      The major difficulty was faced by the institutions in implementing the academic reforms due to
      non-cooperation from the affiliating universities. Formally, the universities were not a part of the
      project. Also, these reforms require substantial restructuring before implementing. These factors
      were not taken into account project design. Thus, the project was only partially successful in
      achieving academic reforms.
      Only 56% of the courses remained accredited at any one particular time over the project period.
      Thus, a thorough planning was required on the part of the institutions and the system granting the
      accreditation, as process of obtaining accreditation was slow during the project. The States also
      needed to take more active role in these issues.


                                                    46
   Networking among institutions was the weak component in the project and needed more
   conceptual clarity. Networking should have been need based and not by force or restrictions.
   Industry-institution interaction was not monitored properly and thus impact is not seen.




                                             47
                                                            Borrower's ICR: ANNEXURE: I

                     LIST OF INSTITUTIONS UNDER
     TECHNICAL EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMME (TEQIP)

L=Lead Institution, N=Network Institution, P=Polytechnic

                                 Centrally Funded Institutions (18)

  1    Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology, Allahabad (L)
  2    Maulana Azad National Institute of Technology, Bhopal (L)
  3    National Institution of Technology, Calicut (L)
  4    National Institute of Technology, Durgapur (L)
  5    National Institute of Technology, Hamirpur (N)
  6    Malaviya National Institute of Technology, Jaipur (L)
  7    Dr B R Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandar (L)
  8    National Institute of Technology, Jamshedpur (L)
  9    National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra (L)
 10    Visvesvarya National Institute of Technology, Nagpur (L)
 11    National Institute of Foundry & Forge Technology, Ranchi (L)
 12    National Institute of Technology, Rourkela (L)
 13    National Institute of Technology, Silchar (N)
 14    National Institute of Technology, Srinagar (L)
 15    Sardar Vallabh Bhai National Institute of Technology, Surat (L)
 16    National Institute of Technology, Surathkal (L)
 17    National Institute of Technology, Tiruchirappalli (L)
 18    National Institute of Technology, Warangal (L)
                                Andhra Pradesh                                       Govt.
                                                                              Funded/Aided/Pvt.
19     University College of Engineering, Osmania University, Hyderabad (L)  Government Funded
20     AU College of Engineering, Vishakhapatnam (L)                         Government Funded
21     JNTU College of Engineering, Kukatpally, Hyderabad (L)                Government Funded
22     SUV College of Engineering, Tirupati (L)                              Government Funded
23     JNTU Institute of Science & Technology, Kukatpally, Hyderabad Government Funded
       (Formally known as Institute of Post Graduate Studies and Research,
       JNTU, Hyderabad) (N)
24     JNTU College of Engineering, Anantpur (N)                             Government Funded
25     JNTU College of Engineering, Kakinada (N)                             Government Funded
26     Osmania University, College of Technology, Hyderabad (N)              Government Funded
27     Rajeev Gandhi Memorial College of Engineering & Technology, Private
       Nandyal (N)
28     Sreenidhi Institute of Science & Technology, Ghatkesar, Hyderabad (N) Private
29     Bapatla Engineering College, Bapatla (N)                              Private
30     Govt. Institute of Electronics, Secunderabad (P)                      Government Funded

                                              45
                                 Gujarat
31   LD college of Engineering, Ahmedabad (L)                              Government Funded
32   DD Institute of Technology, Nadiad (N)                                Government Funded
33   Government Engineering College, Gandhi Nagar (N)                      Government Funded
34   Government Engineering College, Modasa (N)                            Government Funded
35   Govt. Polytechnic, Ahmedabad (P)                                      Government Funded
36   Dr. S & SS Ghandhy College of Engineering & Technology, Surat (P)     Government Funded
                                Haryana
37   Deen Bandhu Chottu Ram University of Science & Technology,            Government Funded
     Murthal (N)
38   Guru Jambheshwar University, Hissar (N)                               Government Funded
39   Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra (N)                               Government Funded
40   YMCA Institute of Engineering, Faridabad (N)                          Government Funded
41   Government Polytechnic, Nilokheri (P)                                 Government Funded
                           Himachal Pradesh
42   Govt. Polytechnic College, Sundernagar (P)                            Government Funded
43   Govt. Polytechnic College for Women Kandaghat (P)                     Government Funded
44   Govt. Polytechnic College, Hamirpur (P)                               Government Funded
                               Jharkhand
45   Birla Institute of Technology, Mesra (L)                              Government Funded
46   BIT, Sindri (N)                                                       Government Funded
47   Government Polytechnic, Ranchi (P)                                    Government Funded
48   Government Polytechnic, Dumka (P)                                     Government Funded
                               Karnataka
49   Shri Jayachamarajendra College of Engineering, Mysore (L)             Aided
50   Basaveshwar College of Engineering, Vidyanagar Bagalkot (L)           Aided
51   University of Vishweshwaraiah College of Engineering, Bangalore (L)   Government Funded
52   NMAM Institute of Technology, Nitte, Udupi (L)                        Private
53   National Institute of Engineering, Mysore (N)                         Aided
54   Shri Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara College of Engineering,            Private
     Dharwad (N)
55   Poojya Doddappa College of Engineering, Gulbarga (N)                  Aided
56   MS Ramaiah Institute of Technology, Bangalore (N)                     Private
57   Dr. Ambedkar Institute of Technology, Bangalore (N)                   Aided
58   University BDT College of Engineering, Davangere (N)                  Government Funded
59   Malnad College of Engineering, Hassan (N)                             Aided
60   Siddaganag Institute of Technology, Tumkur (N)                        Private
61   Sri Siddhartha Institute of Technology, Tumkur (N)                    Private
62   BMS College of Engineering, Bangalore (N)                             Aided




                                         46
                                Kerala
63   College of Engineering, Trivandrum (L)                                 Government Funded
64   College of Engineering, Chengannur (N)                                 Aided
65   Model Engineering College, Kochi (N)                                   Aided
66   Sree Chitra Thirunal College of Engineering, Trivandrum (N)            Aided
67   LBS College of Engineering, Kasaragod (N)                              Aided
                            Madhya Pradesh
68   Jabalpur Engineering College, Jabalpur (L)                             Government Funded
69   Shri GS Institute of Technology & Science, Indore (L)                  Government Funded
70   Rewa Engineering College, Rewa (N)                                     Government Funded
71   Rajiv Gandhi Proudhyogiki Vishwavidyalaya, Bhopal (N)                  Government Funded
72   Ujjain Engineering College, Ujjain (N)                                 Government Funded
73   Sardar Vallabh Bhai Polytechnic College, Bhopal (P)                    Government Funded
74   Kalaniketan Polytechnic, Jabalpur (P)                                  Government Funded
                              Maharashtra
75   College of Engineering, Shivani Nagar, Pune (L)                        Government Funded
76   University Institute of Chemical Technology, Mumbai (L)                Government Funded
77   Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute, Matunga, Mumbai (L)          Government Funded
78   Government College of Engineering, Aurangabad (N)                      Government Funded
79   KES Rajarambapu Institute of Technology, Sakharale, Islampur, Distt.   Private
     Sangli (N)
80   Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Technological University, Vidyavihar,          Government Funded
     Lonere (N)
81   Walchand College of Engineering, Sangli (N)                            Government Funded
82   Yashwantrao Chavan College of Engineering, Nagpur (N)                  Private
83   Shri Guru Gobind Singhji Institute of Engineering and Technology,      Government Funded
     Vishnupuri, Nanded (N)
84   Shri Sant Gajanan Maharaj College of Engineering, Shegaon (N)          Private
85   Government College of Engineering, Amravati (N)                        Government Funded
86   Vishwakarma Institute of Technology, Pune (N)                          Private
87   GH Raisoni College of Engineering, Nagpur (N)                          Private
88   DKTE Society's Textile & Engg. Institute, Ichalkaranji (N)             Private
89   Government Polytechnic Mumbai (P)                                      Government Funded
90   Government Polytechnic, Pune (P)                                       Government Funded
91   Government Polytechnic, Nagpur (P)                                     Government Funded
                              Tamil Nadu
92   Government College of Technology, Coimbatore (L)                       Government Funded
93   Alagappa Chettiar College of Engineering & Technology, Karaikudi       Government Funded
     (L)
94   College of Engineering, Guindy, Chennai (L)                            Government Funded
95   Madras Institute of Technology, Chennai (N)                            Government Funded
96   Government College of Engineering, Tirunelveli (N)                     Government Funded
97   Thanthai Periyar Government Institute of Technology, Vellore (N)       Government Funded


                                         47
98    Government College of Engineering, Salem (N)                         Government Funded
99    AC College of Technology, Anna University, Chennai (N)               Government Funded
100   Central Polytechnic College, Tharamani, Chennai (P)                  Government Funded
101   DD Government Polytechnic College for Women, Tharamani,              Government Funded
      Chennai (P)
102   Tamil Nadu Polytechnic College, Madurai (P)                          Government Funded
                              Uttar Pradesh
103   Harcourt Butler Technological Institute, Kanpur (L)                  Government Funded
104   Kamla Nehru Institute of Technology, Sultanpur (N)                   Government Funded
105   Institute of Engineering & Technology, Lucknow (N)                   Government Funded
106   Madan Mohan Malviya Engineering College, Gorakhpur (N)               Government Funded
107   Bundelkhand Institute of Engineering & Technology, Jhansi (N)        Government Funded
108   Uttar Pradesh Textile Technology Institute, Kanpur (N)               Government Funded
109   Shri Ram Murthi Smarak College of Engineering & Technology,          Private
      Bareilly (N)
110   United College of Engineering & Research, Allahabad (N)              Private
111   Integral University, Lucknow (N)                                     Private
112   Dr. Ambedkar Institute of Technology of Handicapped, Kanpur (P)      Government Funded
                              Uttarakhand
113   Govind Ballabh Pant Univ. of Agriculture & Technology, Pantnagar     Government Funded
      (L)
114   Dehradun Institute of Technology, Dehradun (N)                       Private
115   Govind Ballabh Pant Engineering College, Paurigarhwal (N)            Government Funded
116   Government Polytechnic Dehradun (P)                                  Government Funded
                               West Bengal
117   Bengal Engineering and Science University, Howrah (L)                Government Funded
118   Jadavpur University, Jadavpur (L)                                    Government Funded
119   University College of Technology, Calcutta University, Kolkata (L)   Government Funded
120   Netaji Subhash Engineering College, Kolkata (N)                      Private
121   Asansol Engineering College, Asansol (N)                             Private
122   Govt. College of Engineering & Textile Technology, Serampore (N)     Government Funded
123   Kalyani Government College, Kalyani (N)                              Government Funded
124   Haldia Institute of Technology, Haldia (N)                           Private
125   Jalpaiguri Government Engineering College, Jalpaiguri (N)            Government Funded
126   Government College of Engineering and Ceramic Technology,            Government Funded
      Kolkata (N)
127   Institute of Engineering & Management, Kolkata (N)                   Private




                                         48
                                                             Borrower's ICR: ANNEXURE: II

                 SUMMARY OF THE STUDY REPORT ON
   ASSESSMENT OF FACULTY DEVELOPMENT/TRAINING UNDER TEQIP AND
                 APPROACH TO SCALE-UP FOR FUTURE

The World Bank assisted Technical Quality Improvement Programme (TEQIP) which was started
in 2003 has given major focus of attention on faculty development and training to meet the
overall project goal of upgraded teaching-learning process. Large number of Institutes, Colleges
and Universities throughout the country was selected for TEQIP support. Subsequently the
National Project Implementation Unit (NPIU) has conducted a study to assess the effectiveness of
the program and to scale-up for future. The study was conducted during October 2008-February
2009 with an objective to assess the gains in faculty development/training during TEQIP project,
to identify the reasons for deficiencies noticed in meeting the desired objectives for faculty
development, to identify best practices for faculty development/training in the project, and to
recommend actions for scaling-up for faculty development/training and making the process more
effective in future. For the assessment, 35 representative institutions were chosen and the
assessment was conducted as per the guidelines and format provided by NPIU. The assessment
was done through visits by the assessors appointed by NPIU at the chosen institutions. The
assessors have subsequently submitted reports to NPIU on their findings. The summary of these
assessment reports is presented in this Section.

It was noted by the assessors that the institutions have been engaged in faculty
development/training programs for many years, even in the pre-TEQIP period. But this was not a
well-planned activity. However, this activity is now properly oriented, funded and strengthened
under TEQIP, resulting in the institutions getting benefited from the outcome. In general, it was
observed that the progress of TEQIP activities at many of the Institutions seems to have been
rather slow in the initial years due to various reasons. However, subsequent progress was
observed to be quite good.

At majority of the institutions, a comprehensive and systematic Training Need Assessment
(TNA) based on the needs of the departments had not been carried out. While only a few
Institutions followed the NPIU format exactly, at many Institutions the TNA was sketchy and was
done on an ad-hoc basis without following any scientific and/or systematic approach. In view of
this, it is necessary that the TNA activity needs to be fine-tuned and microscopic analysis needs
to be carried out at departmental level to improve its effectiveness. The TNA format provided by
NPIU needs to be simplified.

Almost at all Institutions, initially the number of faculty members undergoing training was low.
However subsequently the number had improved and in general, it was observed that 75-100 %
faculty members had undergone one or the other training and by and large most of the faculty
members have been covered under various training programs. At number of institutes a gap was
observed between the total number of faculty members identified after TNA and the actual
number who finally went for training. The slippage was largely due to clash of the timing of their
commitment at Institution with the timing of the training program.

The institutions have been observed to get substantial gains as a result of the faculty
development/training initiatives taken up under TEQIP in the last few years. From the
interactions with the faculty members, it was noted that most of the faculty members were happy
about the program in general. The significant gain has been achieved in qualification up-gradation.

                                               49
Notable gains at faculty members' level in the departments are higher level of interest in and
commitment to teaching and student related tasks and higher competence in guiding and advising
students.
The TEQIP program has resulted in motivating the faculty members to take new initiatives and
start certain programs/activities in their own Institutions. Large number of faculty members have
initiated steps to upgrade their qualification. Many Institutions have initiated in-house programs
for the benefit of the faculty members and conducted conferences and workshops at national as
well as international levels. A number of Institutions have established contacts/signed MoUs
with universities/research laboratories for faculty development.

In the TEQIP program, numbers of deficiencies were also observed. As stated earlier, in general
TNA was not carried out in a systematic and scientific manner due to various reasons. The
faculty development program at many Institutions had been usually a class room exercise with
poor industry related participation/contents. At number of Institutions, a wide gap was observed
between the TNA and actual deputations of faculty members due to clash of timing of training
programs with the academic calendar. Also TEQIP could not lead to better consultancy output
primarily due to lack of proper incentives to the faculty members. One important deficiency was
that faculty members at few Institutions could not participate/present papers in
conferences/programs abroad due to State Govts' bureaucratic policies.

After analyzing the findings of the assessors, a number of recommendations have been made in
order to scale-up the program and also to make the faculty development/training more effective.

Conclusion of the Study: Many of the Institutions have a good record of faculty
development/training for many years, even in the pre-TEQIP period. However, this has been
properly oriented, funded and strengthened during the TEQIP period. This activity has to be
nurtured further, maintained and formalized in the post-TEQIP period as well. Although the
progress of the TEQIP activities at many of the Institutions was slow in the initial years,
subsequent progress was observed to be quite good. It is too early to see the results of faculty
development/training initiatives taken up under the TEQIP scheme. However, the initial outcome
is indicative of a need to broaden/deepen training in all areas of academic work, like curriculum
planning/design, course presentation/delivery/examinations etc. The initial results of faculty
development/training programs conducted under TEQIP are indeed encouraging. In general, the
assessors have observed that due to the participation in the TEQIP, the faculty
development/training programs at the institutions got properly oriented, funded and strengthened.
It was also noted that the faculty members and the institutions gained significantly as a result of
the TEQIP. For example, the program has given opportunity to the faculty members for up-
gradation of their qualification, participation in national/international conferences and
participation in various types of training activities making them better equipped professionally.
Summary of the study in given in Annexure III.




                                                50
             Parameter
Bar
No.
 1    Pedagogy
 2    Subject Competence
 3    Laboratory Development
 4    Research Competence
 5    Management Skills
 6    Continuing Education
 7    Qualification Up gradation
 8    Consultancy

 Parameters for evaluating faculty        Degree of perceived gain capabilities




                                     51
                                                Borrower's ICR: ANNEXURE: III
                                                             (Figures in Million Rs.)
UTILIZATION OF FUNDS (as on 30th June 2009)
                      Project Life          Cumulative
          State                                              Disbursement
                       Allocation          Expenditure
ANDHRA PRADESH            1452.834              1451.154       1451.154
GUJARAT                    503.703               498.393        498.496
HARYANA                     326.86               322.707        320.885
HIMACHAL PRADESH            79.953                79.452         79.452
JHARKHAND                    318.7                  318.7         318.7
KARNATAKA                 1624.757              1606.577       1604.898
KERALA                     529.765                529.95         529.95
MADHYA PRADESH             458.476               444.321        441.297
MAHARASHTRA               1625.594              1625.239       1612.571
TAMIL NADU                  961.63                954.68        954.251
 UTTARAKHAND               349.951               349.073        346.835
UTTAR PRADESH               625.06               621.262        616.433
WEST BENGAL                1470.97              1468.096       1455.234
Sub Total (A)            10328.253             10269.604      10230.156

                         Project Life        Cumulative
      CFI + NPIU                                             Disbursement
                          Allocation         Expenditure
MNIT Allahabad                  170                    170           170
MNIT Bhopal                   201.2                200.267       200.267
NIT Calicut                 211.606                211.606       211.606
NIT Durgapur                    210                    210           210
NIT Hamirpur                183.634                  183.7       179.717
MNITJaipur                   85.394                 85.394        85.394
DBRANIT Jalandhar             102.7                  102.7         102.7
NIT Jamshedpur               93.729                 88.484        88.485
NIT Kurukshetra             187.513                177.193       176.392
VNIT Nagpur                     200                    200           200
NIFFT Ranchi                 93.819                  90.81         90.81
NIT Rourkela                152.796                  152.7         152.7
NIT Silchar                  126.78                  126.8        126.78
NIT Srinagar                 79.252                 75.729        75.719
SVNIT Surat                   229.3                229.286         229.3
NIT Surathkal               218.654                218.654       218.654
NIT Tiruchirapalli              200                    200           200
NIT Warangal                  194.1                  194.1         194.1
NPIU                            125                 54.155        54.155
Sub Total (B)              3065.477               2971.578      2966.779

      Total (A+B)          13393.73              13241.182    13196.935

                                        52
Annex 8. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Not applicable.




                                         53
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   Government of India 2002, Ninth Five Year Plan.
   Government of India 2007, Tenth Five Year Plan.
   NASSCOM 2005. The NASSCOM-McKinsey Study 2005.
   NPIU 2002, Project Implementation Plan, TEQIP.
   NPIU 2009, Faculty Development Evaluation.
   NPIU 2009, Civil Works Survey.
   World Bank 2002. Project Appraisal Document for TEQIP (Report No: 2423-IN).
   World Bank 2004. Country Strategy for India, IBRD and IDA, Report No. 29374-IN
   World Bank 2003-2009, Implementation Status and Result Reports Numbers 1 to 14 from
   2003 to 2009.
   World Bank 2003-2009, Joint Review Missions Aide-Memoires Numbers 1 to 10 from 2003-
   2009.
   World Bank 2009, Findings from the Implementation Survey for TEQIP.




                                          54
   Annex 10: Further Findings from the TEQIP Experience

In this annex, we list specific insights from the implementation experience of the various
elements of the project; the relevant lessons should be considered and accounted for in future
project design.

   Though a large number of activities were organized under the sub-component of services to
   community and economy, the institutions did not exploit their full potential as means to
   enhance teaching-learning and reorienting pedagogy towards problem-solving. Pedagogical
   change takes time, and learning from the first project on what worked and why should be
   built upon in future projects.
   While most institutional development reforms related to academic reforms were achieved,
   there were shortfalls in the achievement of some reforms like credit
   exemptions/transfers/accumulation. It is likely that institutions faced difficulties addressing
   those academic reforms that required cooperation and approval from affiliating universities.
   These universities were not formally a part of the project and would have little incentive to
   facilitate them. Also, these reforms are not minor and require substantial restructuring and a
   lengthy process of trial and error before they stabilize. These factors needed to be taken into
   account in project design.
   The share of accredited programs remained around 56% over project life and the
   achievements in this activity were due to the jump in the share of programs for which
   accreditation was applied for. Tracking the status of accreditation of programs over time
   reveals that the process of obtaining accreditation is slow for a number of reasons, and
   programs may remain un-accredited for as long as a year. Reasons for slow accreditation
   include the time taken by the NBA to complete visits and give formal approval and institution
   specific reasons such as vacant faculty positions which make institutions reluctant to apply.
   Some states and institutions need to pay more attention to the issue of accreditation. Formal
   accreditation is one of the few quality assurance mechanisms in India for which an even more
   powerful role is envisaged in the future as accreditation shifts from being input-based to
   outcome-based. Prior commitment from the institutions towards accreditation before they
   receive support may be considered,
   As accreditation is usually given for 3-5 years, there will always be some programs that will
   not be accredited at any point in time unless there is good planning on the part of the
   institution and the system of obtaining accreditation is relatively smooth.
   There is clear evidence on the formation of BOGs and their improving functioning over
   project life. This measure is likely to become the mainstay of how higher education
   institutions are governed in the future. More information on whether the functioning of BOGs
   was effective vis-à-vis the mission of the respective institutions and whether as a group they
   were able to take decisions that enhanced institutional development. Training and orientation
   of BOG members have been recorded by some institutions as an element contributing to
   effective BOG functioning, this may be a crucial link to be undertaken in future projects.
   Networking among institutions has been accepted by project institutions as one with potential
   to increase the scope of resources from which they can draw upon. Future projects can
   strengthen the functioning of this activity by helping institutions identify their network
   partners, delineating their roles and responsibilities, and helping with technical assistance to
   execute them.
   Institution-industry connections were non-systematic and not monitored. The activity itself is
   a critical element of any education project that is aimed at re-orienting institutions to become
   more responsive to industry demand for skills and R&D.



                                               55
   Most data used for monitoring the project was self-reported, on which no independent
   verification was done. Joint outputs suffered from double-counting. Especially for reforms
   that are aimed at increasing autonomy, accountability and governance, there is a need to go
   beyond numbers or binary reporting and understand the processes that are at work. For
   example, with reliable bibliometric data, it will become easier to judge the value of
   publications and academic output only in terms of their impact on the sector.
   The concept of institutions generating funds by charging tuition and through providing
   services (such as consultancy, use of equipment etc) is gaining more acceptability. With
   greater financial autonomy, IRG can become a robust means for institutional self-sufficiency
   as without discretion over the use of funds, institutions have weak incentives to generate
   revenues. IRG can also provide the resources for institutional development that is self-
   financed.




                                             56
