                     PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                              APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                                  03/05/2013
                                                                   Report No.: AB7290

 Operation Name                     Pernambuco Equity and Inclusive Growth DPL
 Region                             LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN
 Country                            Brazil
 Sector                             Sub-national government administration (100%)
 Operation ID                       P132768
 Lending Instrument                 Development Policy Lending
 Borrower(s)                        STATE OF PERNAMBUCO
 Implementing Agency                SECRETARIA DE PLANEJAMENTO E GESTÃO DE
                                    PERNAMBUCO (SEPLAG)
                                    Secretaria de Planejamento e Gestão de Pernambuco
                                    Rua da Aurora 1377
                                    Boa Vista
                                    Recife, PE
                                    Brazil
                                    50040-090
                                    Tel: (55-81) 3182-3869       Fax: (55-81) 3182-3904
 Date PID Prepared                  March 5, 2012
 Estimated Date of Appraisal        April 2013
 Estimated Date of Board            June 2013
 Approval
 Corporate Review Decision          Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                    proceed with the preparation of the operation.

       Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement

1.      The proposed operation is a single tranche Development Policy Loan (DPL) to the
State of Pernambuco, Brazil, in the amount of US$550 million. The Development Objective
of the proposed operation is to support the Government of Pernambuco to strengthen the design,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies and programs aimed at promoting
sustained growth and improved economic opportunities for the poor, consolidating public sector
management innovations, preventing crime and violence, and reducing the burden associated
with chronic disease. The multi-sectoral operation supports the implementation of the GoP
strategy “Pernambuco for All? (Todos por Pernambuco), which aims to make the state a “better
place to live and a better place to work.? It builds on the Bank’s long-term engagement with the
state of Pernambuco and the recent Expanding Opportunities, Enhancing Equity in the State of
Pernambuco Development Policy Loan (Report No. 62869-BR), approved in 2012.

2.     Over the last decade, Brazil has made significant advances in terms of economic and
public sector management, poverty reduction, and social indicators. Consecutive
governments have maintained sound macroeconomic policies, achieving low inflation, robust
economic growth, and significant job creation. Growth in employment and labor incomes, as
well as the implementation of targeted social assistance programs, such as Bolsa Família, have
contributed to a reduction in the share of Brazilians living below the extreme poverty line of
R$70 a month1 from 10.5 percent at the start of the 2000s to 4.7 percent in 2011, as well as a
reduction in inequality as reflected in a fall in the Gini coefficient from 0.59 to 0.53 over the
same period. Brazil has also seen significant improvements in health and education outcomes
resulting from public investments and sectoral reforms.

3.      Similarly to the rest of Brazil, the State of Pernambuco has seen improvements in
economic and social indicators over the last decade, but is still facing significant challenges.
With over 9 million inhabitants, the State of Pernambuco is the second largest economy in
northeast Brazil. However, like other states in the Northeast, it has long lagged behind the rest of
Brazil (World Bank, 2002). In 2010, GDP per capita was R$10,822, about half of the national
average (R$19,766), and the share of the population living below the poverty line was twice that
of Brazil as a whole. This pattern is apparent in other areas as well, with comparatively poor
health and education outcomes, and high levels of crime and violence. Pernambuco also remains
highly unequal, with significant disparities in human capital, economic opportunities and access
to public services, including along spatial, racial and gender lines.

4.       The State of Pernambuco has made significant advances in addressing the
development challenges of the state. Two consecutive government programs (2008-2011 and
2012-2015), based on strong participatory processes, have emphasized the need for increased
public investment, improvements in public services, reduction in crime and violence, and
sustainable growth as key means to improve equity and living conditions in the state, including
for the most vulnerable segments of the population. Equally important, the state has put in place
an innovative public sector management model that systematic performance monitoring,
institutionalized mechanisms for policy coordination and accountability for results.

5.      The proposed multi-sectoral operation seeks to further the Government’s reform
agenda by strengthening of the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of
priority policies and programs in the GoP strategy for 2012-15. Building on the prior
engagement with the state and a dialogue on priorities, the proposed operation focuses on six
areas that correspond to priorities in the GoP strategy: economic development, technical and
vocational education and training, productive inclusion, public sector management, crime and
violence prevention, and health. In each of these areas, the operation supports critical actions
towards the institutionalization and expansion of key government policies and programs, or the
establishment of monitoring and evaluation systems that will provide the basis for evidence-
based and performance oriented policy making in the future. Taken together, the policy actions
are expected to help promote sustained growth and improved economic opportunities for the
poor, consolidation public sector management innovations, prevention crime and violence, and a
reduction of the burden associated with chronic disease.
6.      The proposed operation builds on the first DPL to the state, while also expanding
the engagement into new areas. The first DPL with the State focused on education, water
resource management, disaster risk management, vocational training, gender mainstreaming,
economic development, and public sector management. Building on the implementation progress
from the first DPL, the current DPL maintains a focus on a number of strategic areas (economic
development, technical and vocational training, gender, and public sector management), while
also extending the policy dialogue into new areas (crime prevention, productive inclusion and
health). Three areas covered in the first DPL (education, water resource management and natural
disaster risk management) were dropped on the grounds that the Bank has other instruments for
sustained engagement in these sectors.



1
    Amount in 2010 constant prices; it corresponds to approximately USD40.
7.      The Program is fully aligned with the priorities of the World Bank Group’s
Country Partnership Strategy 2012-2015 (Report #63731-BR), discussed by the Executive
Directors on November 1, 2011. In accordance with the CPS, the proposed operation aims at
promoting a more equitable, sustainable and competitive Pernambuco, including the integration
of a strong gender focus. The program also facilitates the Bank’s strategic engagement in key
areas of the state’s development plan.

       Proposed Objective(s)

The Development Objective of the proposed operation is to support the Government of
Pernambuco to strengthen the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies and
programs aimed at promoting sustained growth and improved economic opportunities for the
poor, consolidating public sector management innovations, preventing crime and violence, and
reducing the burden associated with chronic disease.

       Preliminary Description
The preliminary policy matrix can be summarized as follows:

OBJECTIVES                        POLICY ACTIONS                                RESULTS INDICATORS

COMPONENT 1 - NEW ECONOMY – OPPORTUNITIES FOR All PERNAMBUCANS
Sub-component 1.1                 1.2.1 The State establishes the legal basis   An M&E system for the State
To strengthen the State’s         for the establishment of a monitoring and     Industrial Infrastructure
Industrial Infrastructure         evaluation system for the Industrial          Development Program
Development Program               Infrastructure Development Program            (PROINFRA) is established and
(PROINFRA) through the            (PROINFRA).                                   generates annual reports, which
development of an monitoring                                                    are expected to provide the basis
and evaluation system that will                                                 for decisions about adjustments
provide information for                                                         of the program.
evidence-based policy making
Sub-component 1.1                 1.1.1. The State Business Registration        Percentage of new business
To reduce administrative          Agency (Junta Comercial de                    registrations completed within
barriers to firm entry and        Pernambuco – JUCEPE) signs                    72 hours in the 25 municipalities
ensure that firms can complete    agreements with concerned State               participating in REDESIM.
the State registration process    agencies and municipalities to implement
within 72 hours                   the State Network to Simplify Business
                                  Registration (REDESIM/PE) and
                                  establish a “single window? for the State
                                  business registration process.
Sub-component 1.3                 1.3.1 The State creates the legal basis for An M&E System for State’s
To strengthen Technical           the establishment of an M&E system for Technical and Vocational
Vocational Education and          TVET.                                       Education and Training has been
Training (TVET) policy and                                                    implemented and data on key
programs through the                                                          indicators on inputs, efficiency
development of a monitoring                                                   and results are available for
and evaluation system (M&E)                                                   decision making.
that will support policy
development and program
OBJECTIVES                          POLICY ACTIONS                            RESULTS INDICATORS

management and, over time,
enhance employment outcomes
for the target populations of the
programs.
Sub-component 1.4                   1.4.1. The State creates a financing      Number of municipalities that
To strengthen and expand the        mechanism for the implementation of the   have signed adherence pacts with
State’s Productive Inclusion        productive inclusion program by           the state, thus benefitting from
Program that promotes               municipalities, linked to results-based   state financing for productive
employability and/or income         agreements that establish results         inclusion programs and
earning opportunities for the       monitoring arrangements and annual        committing to service delivery
poorest segments of the             targets on service provision.             targets and reporting on
population.                                                                   performance.

COMPONENT 2 – ACTION DRIVEN STATE – CAPACITY TO GENERATE RESULTS
Sub-component 2.1                   2.1.1 The State establishes the legal     The State’s Results-Based
To strengthen and extend the        basis for the results-based management    Management model, based on
Results Based Management            model and extends its application         the approaches used in Pacto
model of the State by adopting      throughout the State Government.          pela Vida and including sectorial
the approaches used in the                                                    committees, is fully implemented
Pacto Pela Vida in the                                                        in at least three sectors (security,
Secretariats of Health and                                                    health, and education), and key
Education and progressively in                                                elements of the model
other Secretariats.                                                           established in other secretariats.
COMPONENT 3 – QUALITY OF LIFE – A BETTER LIFE FOR THE PERNAMBUCANS
Sub-component 3.1                   3.1.1 The State creates conditions for    The number of beneficiaries of
To strengthen violence              expansion of the “Programa Atitude?       the “Programa Atitude?
prevention programs in the          (Integrated Attention for Crack Users     program, which is focused on
State with a focus on               and their Families) as a form of social   rehabilitating crack users.
rehabilitation of crack users,      prevention to combat drug-related
gender inclusion and                violence and rehabilitate drug users.
monitoring capacity.
                                    3.1.2 The State establishes               An M&E system that integrates
                                    institutional mechanisms for addressing   data on gender-based violence
                                    violence against women.                   and provides routine reports is
                                                                              established.
Sub-component 3.2                   3.2.1 The state approves a State plan to Percentage of hypertensive
To strengthen policies,             address chronic non-communicable         patients that are under active
programs and approaches in the      disease and establishes measures to      management in primary care.
State aimed at attending the        support its implementation.
needs of patients with chronic
conditions, with an emphasis
on diabetes and hypertension.
                                    3.2.2 The State approves new clinical     Percentage of specialist
                                    protocols and simplified clinical         consultation (cardiology and
OBJECTIVES                        POLICY ACTIONS                               RESULTS INDICATORS

                                  pathways focused on chronic non-             endocrinology) based on the
                                  communicable diseases.                       referrals through the State
                                                                               referral system, reflecting
                                                                               improvements in the functioning
                                                                               of the state referral system.



        Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

Poverty and Social Impacts

8.       The policy reforms proposed specifically under this operation are intended to affect
positive change towards poverty reduction and social equity as they address key
constraints to inclusive growth. The operation will support policy changes that: (i) support the
effectiveness of policies aimed at stimulating inclusive growth and private sector development;
(ii) strengthen TVET policy; (iii) expand and strengthen the State’s productive inclusion program
that promotes employability and/or income earning opportunities for the poorest segments of the
population; (iv) strengthen and extend the Results based management model of the State of
Pernambuco; (v) strengthen violence prevention programs in Pernambuco with a focus on
rehabilitation of crack users, gender inclusion and monitoring capacity; and (vi) strengthen
policies, programs and approaches in the State aimed at attending the needs of patients with
chronic conditions, with an emphasis on diabetes and hypertension. A first assessment of the
potential distributive effects of this policy changes on society and poverty relied on secondary
data, and interviews with key stakeholders.2

9.      An analysis of the baseline context in Pernambuco was undertaken as part of the
PSIA. The analysis confirms that: (a) social condition in Pernambuco remains worse than
national averages, in spite of notable improvement over the past years; (b) there are
important inequalities within the State. The PSIA notes that Pernambuco’s heritage as a slave
economy based on sugar cane plantations resulted in a highly stratified society where wage
income was limited and land ownership heavily concentrated, especially in the coastal areas
where sugar plantations were located. The interior was settled by cattle raisers whose activity
also demanded large pieces of land. The state is emblematic of the Brazilian social formation,
evolving with many differences across race, gender, social groups and regions, with strong
implication of the poverty pattern and dynamics in modern Pernambuco. Under this scenario, the
social and economic impacts of the policies supported by this operation are expected to be
positive for the most vulnerable populations.

10.    Policies support inclusive growth through the reduction of administrative barriers
to firm registration (REDESIM) to ensures an easier and speedier state registration of
firms (within 72 hours) may have positive impacts on income and employment of
vulnerable groups. Through an improvement of business climate, a gain that is key to bring new
investments and to stimulate private initiatives, this policy present employment opportunities and
could spur positive circle of cluster activities.



2
  These interviews were carried out during the month of January to February 2013. Stakeholders interviewed
comprised: i) policy formulators; ii) policy executioners; iii) project’s managers; iv) NGO representatives; v)
scholars; vi) members of state’s councils; vii) community leaders
11.     Similarly the policy action supporting the establishment of a monitoring and
evaluation system for the Industrial Infrastructure Development Program (PROINFRA)
can be expected to have positive impact for more vulnerable groups. In helping the GoP
evaluate the impact of regional development programs that work by providing incentives for
private investment, rationalizing and adjusting its strategy the policy action helps Pernambuco
meet its objective of increased equity and growth in the interior. Furthermore, since land is
increasingly scarce in the Metropolitan Area of Recife, the PROINFRA program tend to benefit
more the interior of the State where investment is most needed to provide job opportunities and
increase income. Thus, this program benefits the areas of State that are more disadvantaged,
contributing to a more equitable distribution of productive activities across the State’s territory.

12.     Policy reforms related to the strengthening TVET policy and programs is
progressive and pro-poor. A likely benefit of the monitoring and evaluation system would be to
decrease program fragmentation, as focus is moved from inputs of individual programs towards
focus on efficiency of the overall system. This enhances the quality and relevance of these
programs by providing feedback on their efficiency and effectiveness, which, given the overall
emphasis of the state on productive inclusion and the expansion of economic opportunities for
the poorer segments of the population, is likely to benefit disadvantaged candidates. Further,
disclosing information on monitoring and evaluation to stakeholders, especially of the TVET on
employment outcomes will help to increase program coordination and to match the supply of
labor with the required labor market skills placed by the local economy.

13.     The strengthening of Pernambuco’s Result-Based Management which has been
essential to delivering results will also contribute to the effectiveness of the policies taken to
expanding the quality of life of all Pernambucans, and especially the most vulnerable ones,
in the reduction of gender and crack-related violence as well as in tackling the chronic
conditions. In the case of the policies supporting the expansion of the Attitude Program for crack
prevention, treatment and rehabilitation, the pro-poor benefits are clear given the prevalence of
addiction to crack among poorer quintiles of the population, with devastating effects on
communities and families. The focus on female users is also expected to have a positive impact,
not only for those women – who often having children of their own or risk becoming pregnant
due to increased promiscuity related to drug consumption, but also for their larger families.
Vulnerable women – whether socially and/or economically - and their families will also
benefited for the strengthening of the GoP monitoring and prevention of gender-based violence.
Finally, the policies tackling chronic conditions in the State of Pernambuco, with an emphasis on
diabetes and hypertension can be expected to have positive distributional impact on poorer
Pernambucans who are dependent on the public health system to a greater degree than higher-
income groups, and who have traditionally faced both geographic and other barriers for
accessing care.

14.    The PSIA concluded unequivocally that the policies selected by the Government of
the State of Pernambuco and to be supported by the DPL operation are expected to have
potential positive, progressive and pro-poor impacts, thus promoting more equitable
growth as a result of its effects across regions and social groups. However, the analysis
underlined a general concern regarding the effectiveness of horizontal and vertical coordination
within and between governments to implement them.

Environment Aspects

15.    Environmental safeguard policies for Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01), Natural
Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) and Safety of Dams (op/BP 4.37) do not apply to the proposed operation.
The policies supported by this operation are not expected to have a direct impact on the
environment, forests and natural resources. However, the associated policies could also
contribute to the protection of the region’s environment, notably through the strengthening of
evaluation and management capacity (policy area 2).

       Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

16.     The State Secretariat of Planning and Management of the State of Pernambuco
(SEPLAG) has led the preparation of this multi-sectoral operation and will be responsible
for its overall implementation. Given its nature, the operation will be implemented by seven
different State secretariats, namely: for Policy area 1 : the State Business Registration Agency of
the State Secretariat of Economic Development, the Pernambuco Development Agency (Agência
de Desenvolvimento de Pernambuco), the Secretariat for labor, qualification and employment
(STQE), the Secretariat for Education (SEE), the Secretariat for Social Development and
Human Rights (SEDSDH); for Policy Area 2: SEPLAG; for Policy Area 3: the Secretariat for
Social Development and Human Rights (SEDSDH), the Secretariat for Women’s Affairs
(SecMulher), the Secretariat for Social Defense (SDS), the State’s Health Secretariat.

17.      SEPLAG has instituted an elaborate monitoring and evaluation system for its
strategic priorities. The Governor convenes a meeting of the secretaries of all the state
secretariats to assess progress on strategic objectives, analyze advances towards reaching
outcome and results indicators, and identify obstacles to progress and budgetary implications.
As the proposed operation is fully aligned with the state’s strategic map, the progress of the
indicators defined under this program will be monitored as part of this process. This will
facilitate regular updates of program implementation and allow for necessary adjustments.

       Risks and Risk Mitigation

18.     Country, state and sector factors. Moderate to low risk. As described in the country
and state context, despite external risks and internal policy challenges, the Government of
Brazil’s overall macroeconomic framework is considered sustainable in the medium term. At the
state level, Economic and fiscal risks are related to prudent management of the State of
Pernambuco's fiscal position in an uncertain global environment. Even though the State of
Pernambuco has a strong fiscal stance, its domestic tax collection from the ICMS tax revenues
are vulnerable to macroeconomic fluctuations in Brazil and partner countries, as well as changes
in the tax base stemming from fiscal wars and tax evasion. Most of the planned investments in
the state will come from European firms (such as Fiat). As such, the economy of Pernambuco
remains vulnerable to weak domestic and external demand. In addition to the fundamental
factors affecting demand, the economy of Pernambuco is also vulnerable to the nature of the
policy response to continued economic weakness, where a higher tolerance for inflation and a
lower primary surplus at the federal level may lead to higher risk premia and therefore a higher
cost of finance. However, the GoP has also been demonstrating high ownership and willingness
to implement and sustain policy reforms to be supported by this operation, which are also
empowered by the political stability in place in the State in the last years.

19.     Social factors. Moderate. A poverty and social impact analysis was carried out, including
secondary data analysis and focus group interviews with key stakeholders. The analysis
concluded that the combined social and economic impacts for the most vulnerable population are
expected to be positive. The social-related risks associated with the operation are moderate and
refer to concerns regarding the effectiveness of horizontal and vertical coordination within and
between governments to implement them.
20.     Fiduciary factors. Low. PFM procedures are well developed in Brazil and adopted by all
levels of government. A sound legal framework was developed over a number of years to help
strengthen accountability and transparency in the management of public finances in the country.
Pernambuco’s PFM system features strong internal rules and controls, with clear definition of
responsibilities and institutional arrangements for the management of public finances. Existing
weaknesses are being addressed by the State through a number of reforms, which would mitigate
the financial management risks.

21.     Institutional and implementation factors. Moderate to low risk. Risk analysis ranges
from moderate to low risk for institutional and implementation factors. It depends on the degree
and status of implementation of proposed reforms, the responsible executing secretariat, needed
adherence from concerned parties, and whether the policy reform is a state mandate or depends
on other actors at national or sub-national levels. The following paragraphs provide a description
of the implementation capacity and associated risks for each of the involved secretariats. A
detailed sectoral review of the risks and mitigations can be found in the program document.

       Tentative financing

Source:                                                                             ($m.)
Borrower                                                                               0
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                                550

                                                                      Total          550

        Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Magnus Lindelow
Title: Lead Economist – Sector Leader HD
Tel: 55 61 3329-8610
Fax: 55 61 3329-1010
Email: mlindelow@worldbank.org

       For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
