DOCUMENTSV
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Re:   Loan No. 8284-BR (Pernambuco Equity and Inclusive Growth Development
Policy Loan - Programa de Desenvolvimento das Politicas Pblicas do Estado de
Pernambuco II - DPL)
Article VI of the General Conditions
Financial and Economic Data
Dear Sirs and Mesdames:
In connection with the Loan Agreement of this date between the State of Pernambuco
(Borrower) and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Bank) providing
a loan (Loan) for the above-captioned operation, the related Guarantee Agreement of same
date between the Federative Republic of Brazil (Member Country) and the Bank, and the
General Conditions (General Conditions) made applicable to the Loan Agreement and
Guarantee Agreement, I am writing on behalf of the Member Country to set forth the
following:
1.    We understand and agree that, for purposes of Section 6.01 of the General
Conditions, the Member Country is required by the Bank to report "long-term external
debt" (as defined in the World Bank's Debtor Reporting System Manual, dated January
2000 (DRSM)), in accordance with the DRSM, and in particular, to notify the Bank of new
"loan commitments" (as defined in the DRSM) not later than 30 days after the end of the
quarter during which the debt is incurred, and to notify the Bank of "transactions under
loans" (as defined in the DRSM) once a year, not later than March 31 of the year following
the year covered by the report.
2.    We represent that, except as otherwise notified to the Bank, no Liens (as defined in
the General Conditions), other than those excluded pursuant to paragraph (c) of Section
6.02 of the General Conditions, exist on any Public Assets (as defined in the General
Conditions), as security for any External Debt (as defined in the General Conditions).
Except as otherwise notified to the Bank, no defaults exist in respect of any external public
debt (as defined in the DSRM). It is our understanding that, in making the Loan, the Bank
may rely on the representations set forth or referred to in this letter.


﻿3.    Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by having a duly authorized
representative of the Bank sign in the space provided below.
Very truly yours,
FEDE      IVE REPUB     C OF BRAZIL
Aut orized Re resei tative
AGREED:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
onzed Representative


