Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25232
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-261 10)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 117.8 MILLION
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF
INDIA
FOR A CATARACT BLINDNESS CONTROL PROJECT
12/17/2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2002)
Currency Unit = Rupee
Rupee 1.00 = US$ US$ 0.49
US$ 1.00 = Rupee 49.00
FISCAL YEAR
April 1  March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMC       -    Annual Maintenance Contract
CNA       -    Communications Needs Assessment
DBCS      -    District Blindness Control Societies
DHS       -    Directorate of Health Services
DPM       -    District Program Manager
ECCE      -    Extracapsular Cataract Extraction
EFC       -    Expenditure Finance Committee
GOI       -    Government of India
HSCC      -    Hospitals Services Consultancy Co-operation
ICCE      -    Intracapsular Cataract Extraction
IDA       -    International Development Association
IEC       -    Information, Education and Communication
IOL       -    Intraocular Lens
M&E       -    Monitoring and Evaluation
MOHFW     -    Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
MTR       -    Mid-term Review
NGO       -    Non-government Organization
NPCB      -    National Program for the Control of Blindness
NPMC      -    National Program Management Cell
OT        -    Operation Theatre
PHC       -    Primary Health Center
SBCS      -    State Blindness Control Societies
WHO       -    World Health Organization
Vice President:   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:    Michael F. Carter
Sector Manager/Director:   Charles C. Griffin
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Suneeta Singh



INDIA
BLINDNESS CONTROL
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             10
6. Sustainability                                                                 12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                15
9. Partner Comments                                                               17
10. Additional Information                                                        28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              31
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              34
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              36
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              37
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              40
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 41
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             42



Project ID: P0 10455                                     Project Name. BLINDNESS CONTROL
Team Leader. Suneeta Singh                                TL Unit: SASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Repor-t Date: December 23, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: BLINDNESS CONTROL                             L/C/TFNumber. IDA-26110
Country/Department: INDIA                                               Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: Health (95%); Central government administration
(3%); Sub-national government administration (2%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   07/09/1992                             Effective:                    01/31/1995
Appraisal:  01/27/1994                               MTR:                       09/01/1998
Approval:  05/12/1994                              Closing:                    06/30/2002
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GO1/MOHFW
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                           D. Joseph Wood
County Manager:      Michael F. Carter                         Heinz Vergin
Sector Manager.      Charles C. Griffin                        Richard L. Skolnik
Team Leader at ICR:  Suneeta Singh                             Maria Donoso Clark
ICR Primary Author:  Shreelata Rao Seshadri
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability. L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance. S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry.                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Cataract Blindness Control Project, made Effective on January 31, 1995, provided a Credit of
SDR 85.3 million (USD 117.8 million equivalent) to the Government of India (GOI). The
objectives of the Project were to: (i) support India's efforts to upgrade the quality of cataract
surgery; (ii) expand the coverage of India's National Program for the Control of Blindness
(NPCB) to underprivileged areas with special attention to women, tribal and isolated areas; and
(iii) assist in the reduction of prevalence of cataract blindness by more than 50% and bilateral
blindness incidence by more than 30% in the participating states. Seven states which accounted
for over 70% of cataract blindness in India were selected for the project. These were Andhra
Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Orissa, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh. The
seven-year project sought to eliminate the backlog of cases by conducting more than II million
surgeries.
The NPCB had been launched in 1976 by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, GOI as a
vertical program. It was designed to provide comprehensive eye care at primary, secondary and
tertiary levels, addressing in particular the problem of age-related cataract blindness. While other
formns of cataract blindness do occur (such as congenital, juvenile, cortical and nuclear), none of
these constitutes a public health problem. In 1983, the National Health Policy of India identified
blindness as an important public health problem and set a target for the reduction in blindness
prevalence rate from 1.3 per thousand to 0.3 per thousand.
In the early 1990s, it was estimated that more than a third of the world's total blind population of
35 million lived in India, reflecting both the country's large population size and the higher than
average prevalence of cataract blindness. Of these, about 80%, or more than 10 million were blind
from bilateral cataract. Another 10 million or so had unilateral cataract. India had a greater
prevalence of cataract as a cause of blindness at 80% than was the case worldwide (50%). Not
only that, almost half (45%) of the cases in India occurred before 60 years of age, while globally,
cataracts occur for the most part after the age of 60. It was also realized that prevalence of
cataract among women was especially high due to low social and economic access of women to
health care services. Due to high prevalence and early onset of cataract blindness, it has been
estimated that 2.4 million disability adjusted life years were lost annually to cataract blindness in
India in the early 1990s. At the time, India's capacity to carry out cataract surgery was merely
1.5 million operations annually, many of these with unsatisfactory results.
Sight restoration in cases of cataract is a two-step process involving surgical removal of the lens
of the eye and correction of the resulting refractive error. At the time of preparation, the
preferred surgical method was Intracapsular Cataract Extraction (ICCE). This is suitable only for
individuals with bilateral blindness as the refractive error caused by the surgery requires spectacles
of such high power that double vision results, if applied to only one eye. The project sought to
shift to the more sophisticated Extracapsular Cataract Extraction (ECCE) with intraocular lens
(IOL) implantation, which results in more "normal" vision, and may even eliminate the need for
spectacles altogether.
Given the epidemiological, management, technical and social situation in India in the early 1990s
- 2 -



with regard to cataract surgery, the objectives of the project were appropriate. The Project was
consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy to (i) reduce as quickly as possible the burden of
key endemic diseases such as leprosy, tuberculosis, blindness and malaria; and (ii) strengthen
health systems to provide effective and efficient primary health care over the medium term. IDA's
involvement in the cataract blindness control program was justified on several grounds: (i) the
project would direct resources to one of the most cost-effective health interventions on a sound
technical and institutional basis; (ii) the project was consistent with IDA's strategy of reducing
inequalities by improving access to cataract surgery for the poor and marginalized; and (iii) IDA
had a comparative advantage in serving as a catalyst in upgrading the cataract blindness control
program through its access to high level international experts and global experience. A large part
of Bank involvement in the health sector in India had so far focused on the family welfare sector
with the India Population Projects. The Project provided the Bank an opportunity to reform the
blindness control sector in India and opened the door for Bank involvement in the public health
sector.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.
3.3 Original Components:
The Project included four components:
(a)   Enhancing quality of eye care and expanding service delivery (USD 118.8 million; 84%
of the Credit) through (i) improving quality control for service delivery; (ii) strengthening service
capacity and improving efficiency; (iii) regularizing the organization of camps; (iv) creating an
enabling environment for nonprofit organizations and private sector participation; and (v)
expansion of coverage to tribal and remote rural areas;
(b)   Developing human resources for eye care (USD 5.0 million; 4% of the Credit) through
(i) training of ophthalmologists; (ii) training of allied personnel such as operating theater
personnel; (iii) training of ophthalmic assistants and/or health assistants; and (iv) management
training.
(c)   Promoting outreach activities and public awareness (USD 10.0 million; 7% of the
Credit) through (i) outreach and screening camps organized by NGOs and government ophthalmic
teams with community participation; (ii) screening routines carried out by ophthalmic and health
assistants as part of their general duties; (iii) involvement of "satisfied customers" and "temporary
outreach workers" in outreach campaigns; (iv) promotion of the program through schools by
creating awareness among teachers and students; and (v) facilitating transportation and
compensation to patients from remote areas to facilitate access to services. Such efforts would be
complemented by an IEC campaign that would (i) develop a recognizable identity for the NPCB;
(ii) develop community based messages; and (iii) design media and communications packages and
strategies to address deterrents to surgery ; and
(d)   Building institutional capacity (USD 8.0 million; 6% of the Credit) through (i)
developing institutional capacity for eye care management at the central, state and district levels;
(ii) developing collaborative mechanisms for cooperation between the government and
private/voluntary sectors; (iii) introducing monitoring and feedback mechanisms to facilitate
implementation and maintain quality control; and (iv) building institutional capacity for human
resources development.
-3 -



About USD 37 million (about 25% of the Credit) were set aside for funding service delivery
through NGOs and the private sector. Civil works and equipment and supplies accounted for
USD 13.34 million (about 12% of the Credit) and USD 10.03 million (about 7% of the Credit)
respectively. Almost USD 5 million (about 4% of the Credit) was set aside for provision of
spectacles for post-operative visual correction. About USD 2.25 million (about 2% of the Credit)
was allocated for training of different categories of health personnel. These components were
appropriate to meet the objectives of the Project.
3.4 Revised Components:
In March 2001, an additional component was added to the Project for the purpose of restoration
of assets lost due to the Gujarat earthquake. The component was funded through reallocation of
savings (USD 20m) identified in the Project. These monies were fully disbursed, nor did they in
any way hinder full implementation of other Project components.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory. The Project scores high in addressing an important health issue facing India at the
time, and in being responsive to the Borrower's priorities. Given the huge social and economic
loss resulting from cataract blindness, and the government's commitment to addressing the
problem, it was clearly a priority area for intervention. In terms of technical quality of the Project
design, and the contribution of the Project at the policy and operational levels, also, the Project
scores high. The Project aimed to replace outdated methods with the latest technology, and
deliver it to those in most need of cataract surgery in a cost-effective manner.
Many of the key issues identified as being constraints in the implementation of the NPCB were
addressed through the introduction of new policies, procedures, and standards under the Project.
These included: (i) the organizational restructuring of NPCB at the center, with delegation of
authority and accountability for implementation at the district level through District Blindness
Control Societies (DBCS) and subsequently, State Blindness Control Societies (SBCS); (ii) the
adoption of new technical standards for patient screening, diagnosis, surgical procedures, and
follow-up; (iii) the provision of modem equipment and facilities at the grassroots level to ensure
high quality surgery; (iv) the establishment of mechanisms for NGO/private sector collaboration in
the Project, and new fee schedules for services by nongovernmental providers; (v) the adoption of
targeted strategies to facilitate access for disadvantaged groups, particularly women and tribals;
and (vi) the agreement on a new approach to resource allocation based on "packages of inputs",
i.e. combination of staffing, equipment, and supplies needed for quality service delivery in a
coordinated fashion.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. The achievement of development objectives of the Project is highly satisfactory.
Implementation progress of the Project is fully satisfactory. Specific achievements include:
Improving the quality of cataract surgery: Demand for IOL surgery and the proportion of IOL
surgeries continue to grow: the increase in ECCE/IOL surgeries as a percentage of all cataract
surgeries in the Project states ranges from 31%-91% in 2001, compared to less than 3% at the
- 4 -



start of the Project. This increase has been facilitated by the intensive training program which has
increased the technical skills of ophthalmic surgeons in doing IOL surgery, and substantial
strengthening of infrastructure, including equipment, for conducting high quality cataract
surgeries. Camp surgeries, which were often responsible for poor visual outcomes, have declined;
surgeries in fixed facilities have grown steadily.
Expanding service delivery to underserved populations: Routine performnance data from the states
indicate that women and tribals comprise more than 50% of the number of operated cases, an
important objective of the Project. Operationalizing and fully utilizing the infrastructure developed
in tribal areas has been identified by MOHFW and the states as a priority. Mechanisms to
strengthen involvement of the private/NGO sector in service delivery and outreach to patients in
peripheral areas were put in place.
Reducing the backlog of cataract surgeries: A cumulative total of 15.35 million cataract
operations have been performed under the Project, compared to a target of 11.03 million. The
backlog in the Project states in 1994 had been estimated at about 7.0 million cases. The number
of cataract operations per 100,000 population has grown to an average of 396 in the Project
states compared to a target of 400 per 100,000. The shortfall is largely due to under-performance
in Orissa (235) and Uttar Pradesh (323). Sentinel Surveillance Centers (23), which monitor the
prevalence of cataract blindness and enable an appropriate response, have been established under
the project.
In addition, institutional capacity for program management has been strengthened overall.
Management arrangements have been put in place at the state and district levels to allow for
decentralized implementation of the program, responsive to local conditions and needs.
Evaluation tools have been developed and utilized by the National Program Management Cell to
guide and facilitate program implementation.
A dramatic, albeit unforeseen outcome, has been the expansion of manufacturing capacity for high
quality ophthalmic materials such as IOL and suture material for surgery, which is now being
exported by the country.
Details of the achievements of the NPCB are given in the sections that follow.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Enhancing quality of eye care and expanding service delivery. The primary
focus of this component was to shift the emphasis of the Project away from quantitative targets
towards qualitative improvements in surgical and post-surgical care. Specific objectives included:
Improving quality control for service delivery: Norms and standards for eye care were developed
and disseminated. The guidelines included standard protocols for pre-operative examination,
cataract surgery, and post-operative care. Surgical outcomes have improved as a result of the
provision of well-equipped operation theaters and trained surgeons: post-operative visual acuity
>3/60 following ICCE surgery has improved from 75% before 1994 to 82% between 1999-2002,
while that for IOL has improved from 84% to 95% in the same period. Post-operative visual
- 5 -



acuity >6/60 in 2002 was 66% for ICCE surgery and 83% for IOL. The Mid-Term Review
(MTR) indicated that post-operative follow-up needed strengthening since poor visual outcomes
after surgery continued to be high. This was due mainly to failure to prescribe appropriate
spectacles after perforning refraction 4-6 weeks after surgery; only 20% of patients were
provided this service. Steps were taken to improve follow-up, such as making the full release of
grants to NGOs contingent on follow-up. However, post-operative follow-up will require
continued monitoring.
Strengthening service capacity and improving efficiency: High quality goods and equipment were
procured, including operating microscopes, intraocular lenses, and ophthalmic sutures.
Operations are now performed in newly constructed or renovated dedicated eye operation
theaters (OTs), which provide a conducive, sterile surgical environment that would facilitate high
quality cataract surgery with IOL implantation. New OTs (301) and eye wards (273) have been
constructed under the Project, largely completing the planned civil works program in all the
Project states. The small shortfall in the civil works targets is due to non-completion of works in
one state, Madhya Pradesh. In addition, 45 medical colleges, 259 district hospitals, 254 district
mobile units and 3281 primary health centers were provided with eye care equipment by the
Project, in excess of what had been targeted in each category. The latest equipment, including
747 operating microscopes, 600 slit lamps, 821 A-Scans, 344 AVUs, 681 keratometers, and 178
Yag lasers, was procured to ensure enhanced quality of surgery.
Findings of the Rapid Assessment (2001-2002) indicate that the Project coverage of persons
requiring cataract surgery has increased to about 70%. In the surveyed districts, the number of
IOL surgeries increased from 3% before 1994 to about 42% (cumulative) between 1999-2002.
Overall, based on routine reporting, the number of cataract surgeries has been steadily increasing,
with the increase in ECCE/IOL surgeries ranging in different states from 15-65% in 1998-99 to
44-91% in 2001-02. Overall, the prevalence of cataract blindness declined from 1.49% at baseline
to 1.1% at endline: a decline of 26%.
Regularizing the organization of camps: The NPCB shifted from the camp approach that had
earlier been pioneered by the program to a facility-based approach. The camp approach was
appropriate for conventional ICCE cataract surgery, and had the advantage of increasing access
for patients in remote, rural areas. However, poor visual outcomes among patients operated at
camps led to a shift to IOL surgery and it became necessary to provide a sterile OT environment
and special equipment for surgery. The outreach function of the camp was retained, however, by
organizing regular screening camps to identify operable cataracts, which were later transported to
fixed facilities for surgery. Data indicates that in 2000-2001, only about 8% of conventional
surgeries continue to take place at camps, mainly in remote areas, down from about 11% in
1999-2000. The rest take place in fixed facilities: 17% in government facilities, 37% in NGO
facilities and about 38% in private facilities. For the most part, the shift to IOL surgeries in fixed
facilities has become entrenched.
Creating an enabling environment for nonprofit organizations and private sector participation:
NGOs had been involved in service delivery to improve outreach even before the start of the
Project. Under the Project, the NPCB sought to expand their coverage by providing field-based
-6 -



NGOs and private sector partners recurrent and nonrecurring grants to assist the government in
reducing the backlog of cataract blindness. The long-term objective of this component was to
create sustainable capacity for eye care in remote areas. The scheme involved provision of
nonrecurring grant for civil works, equipment, vehicles and furnishings; and recurrent grants
depending on services provided by the NGO.
Expansion of coverage to tribal and remote rural areas: A total of 30 NGOs were supported with
a one-time nonrecurring grant to provide services in underserved areas. A detailed assessment of
the NGO contribution has been undertaken as one of the Project's end-line studies. That study,
the beneficiary assessment study (August 2002) and the cost-benefit analysis of the Project (July
2002), indicate that the most cost-effective option for cataract surgery is surgery at an NGO
hospital after NGO organized screening camps: cost per benefit in this option is the lowest at INR
1,297, as compared the cost in a private facility at INR 5,440. NGOs contributed substantially to
service provision in peripheral areas by organizing screening eye camps, school eye health
programs and village volunteer programs; as well as curative care at their base hospital, and
preventive and rehabilitative care. IEC programs were also organized by the NGOs. It is
estimated that almost 95% of cataract surgeries in Tamil Nadu, for example, were conducted
under the mandate of an NGO, the Aravind Eye Hospital. Similarly, in Andhra Pradesh, about
32% of cataract surgeries were conducted by NGOs. As indicated above, over a third of all IOL
surgeries today, take place in NGO facilities.
Component 2: Developing human resources for eye care. An important objective of the Project
was to develop the necessary human resources to meet the rising demand for IOL surgery. IOL
technology was introduced on a large scale for the first time by the Project. In the 1990s, when
the Project was launched, it was available only in a few tertiary hospitals. Two specific risks had
been envisaged during Project preparation in this context: (i) that entrenched practices would
delay the transition to the new approach to cataract surgery; and (ii) emphasis on ECCE/IOL
training would skew the program towards tertiary and secondary facilities, at the expense of
peripheral areas. However, these risks were addressed as follows: (i) participatory workshops
were held to ensure endorsement of the new technologies by all stakeholders; and (ii) service
delivery was strengthened first in peripheral areas through the training of NGO partners. In
addition, professional ophthalmic associations were involved in the training program. The
capacity building program was thus able, in a period of three years, to develop expertise in both
the public and private sector to a level where ECCE/1OL has become the preferred surgery across
all states.
During the course of the Project, 100 faculty in ophthalmic hospitals have been trained as trainers,
and 842 eye surgeons have been trained in IOL surgery, as against a revised Project target of 817.
Other categories of manpower such as PHC Medical Officers, paramedical ophthalmic assistants,
and health workers are being trained as per GOI guidelines. Revised norms for training of various
categories of personnel have been issued by the National Program Management Cell (NPMC).
Manuals for the training of nurses in ophthalmic techniques and training in refraction have been
developed and disseminated.
Component 3: Promoting outreach activities and public awareness. Another important
-7 -



objective of the Project was to promote outreach activities and public awareness. It was envisaged
that outreach activities would be complemented by Information, Education and Communication
(IEC) interventions. The communication interventions for the program were initiated by the
MOHFW in 1997. A Bank-funded study has been completed of the effectiveness of the public
awareness generation program of the NPCB. Specific objectives of the IEC strategy were to:
Develop community-based messages: A Communications Needs Assessment (CNA) was
commissioned in 1995. Based on the findings of the CNA, a communication strategy was
developed by a Working Group. In February 1997, "Guidelines for Communication Workplans"
were disseminated by MOHFW that clearly outlined key messages and approaches for
communication and suggested budgetary allocations for IEC at the central, state and district
levels. As per the recommendations of the Guidelines, funds were allocated to the DBCS and the
state Directorate of Health Services (DHS) for rEC and other activities. The decentralization of
funding and implementation of JEC activities to the states and DBCSs allowed EEC to be flexible
to local needs, and effectively use various local media.
Design media and communication packages and strategies to address deterrents to surgery in
different social contexts: In 1998, three years after the start of the Project and a year after the
launch of the media campaign, a Beneficiary Assessment Survey was conducted in 14 districts
within the seven focus states. The survey provided knowledge, attitude and practice data,
identified expectations of the community with regard to sight restoration, beneficiaries'
satisfaction with services and identified problems relating to service delivery. The findings of this
study were then incorporated into the IEC strategy.
Findings of the latest beneficiary assessment (2002) indicate a significant improvement over
previous figures and show that almost 94% of those needing cataract surgery were aware that
cataract was curable. Over 90% of all respondents perceived the need to have a cataract
operated. Sources of awareness of cataract were direct communication from doctor: 49%; and
friends/neighbors/other family members (cataract afflicted): 35%. In short, demand for
ECCE/IOL surgery has been steadily on the rise, largely due to interpersonal comrnunication from
patients who have benefited from enhanced quality of surgery leading to better visual outcomes.
Component 4: Building institutional capacity. This component was aimed at strengthening the
institutional capacity at central, state, and district levels to manage the program; capacity to
evaluate outcomes; and capacity to involve the private sector in service delivery. A substantial
risk identified during Project preparation was the lack of managerial capacity, clear lines of
authority and accountability within the NPCB. This risk was partially addressed as described
below:
Developing institutional capacity for eye care management at the central, state and district levels:
The NPCB was originally managed through two separate units at the Ministry of Health and
Family Welfare (MOHFW), a Central Ophthalmic Cell responsible for technical aspects of the
program and a separate administrative unit. This dichotomy resulted in poor coordination and
communication, which impacted negatively on service delivery. Under the Project, an NPMC was
set up at the MOHFW, responsible for designing and communicating program strategies and for
- 8 -



the overall implementation of the program at the national level. A National Blindness Control
Board was set up with a Technical Advisory Committee to provide technical assistance to the
NPMC. A remarkable feature of the NPMC has been the continuity in leadership: the Deputy
Director General of Health Services in charge of the program, the Assistant Director General of
Health Services, and a large proportion of their team, have been in place before and during
preparation, and through the 8 years of implementation. This has resulted in an unprecedented
level of involvement and commitment, as well as in-depth technical knowledge of the program
which has enhanced the quality of implementation.
District Blindness Control Societies (DBCSs) had been piloted in the Danida funded districts
between 1988 and 1992 and found to be effective in expanding coverage, increasing reliability and
improving quality of services in the periphery. About 200 DBCSs were created during the
preparatory phase. This was later increased to 278 in the course of the Project, covering all
Project districts. They were registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860, and are fully
empowered to make financial and administrative decisions. The District Program Manager
(DPM) was trained in program management and became accountable for day-today management
of the Project in the district. Guidelines for the functioning of DBCS were published and
disseminated. An in-depth review of all DBCSs was organized in 1999-2000 to assess their
functioning, including financial management. Two strategic changes were made thereafter for the
sustainability of this decentralized model: (i) State Blindness Control Societies were set up to
decentralize monitoring and ensure smooth flow of funds; and (ii) since there were problems in
retaining contractual DPMs, a key district level officer was designated as DPM on additional
charge, with the payment of an additional allowance. This was done both to cut costs on salaries,
and to reduce frequent turnover of DPMs. However, there was mixed reaction to this change,
and currently the decision to have a full time or part time DPM has been left to the states.
Developing collaborative mechanisms for cooperation between the government and
private/voluntary sectors: To ensure full participation of the voluntary and private sector in the
program, a consortium of NGOs was to be formed to provide advice and to implement the
program. The Project was successful in involving the NGO/private sector in expanding outreach
and service delivery, as has been described in Section 4.2 above.
Introducing monitoring and feedback mechanisms to facilitate implementation and maintain
quality control: Project implementation has been substantially enhanced by the quality of the
monitoring undertaken by the NPMC. At the village level, Village Blind Registers were initiated
in 1998, to identify and record blind persons in each village needing cataract surgery. A Rapid
Survey tool was developed to measure outcomes efficiently in the interim between National
Surveys. Beneficiary Assessments were conducted at the baseline, mid-term and endline to assess
impact at the community level and beneficiary perceptions of service delivery. The NPMC has
supported several centers of excellence in operations research in several states including the RP
Center and Aravind Eye Hospital. This collaboration has resulted in a quantum rise in the quality
of monitoring and evaluation under the Project. The M&E tools have been used in non-Project
states as well, and will continue to be used to guide the program in the future.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
- 9-



No economic rate of analysis was carried out either at the time of project appraisal or for the ICR.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return analysis was carried out either at the time of project appraisal or for the ICR.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the Project has been substantial. In 1994, the NPCB was
a small, 100% centrally-sponsored scheme with a declining budget. The substantial infusion of
Bank funding has required significant institutional and management development which will
continue to benefit the program in future. At the central level, the NPMC has been strengthened
to play an effective facilitating and monitoring role. Several effective monitoring tools have been
developed, such as the Rapid Survey, to track Project outcomes and coordinate an appropriate
response. Procurement of equipment and large volumes of consumables for a growing program
has been institutionalized. The capacity of the NPCB overall has been strengthened: the technical
and management initiatives of the Project have been implemented in non-Project states as well;
and a plan has been developed for sustaining and replicating the Project in the entire country. A
second important institutional impact of the Project was the partial decentralization of the
blindness program through the DBCS. The DBCS have the authority and accountability for
Project implementation at the district level. The setting up of SBCSs in all the states will also
promote the trend towards state ownership and authority over the program.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Not applicable.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
From the start, the government was committed to the issue of cataract blindness control, and to
increasing the access of underserved sections of society to cataract services. Several measures
were adopted and implemented during the Project to facilitate the achievement of this goal: (i) the
mechanism of district level societies was accepted by both central and state governments as the
appropriate way in which to decentralize financial and implementing authority down to the field
level; (ii) guidelines and processes were framed and adopted for the involvement of the
private/NGO sectors in service delivery. This increased the outreach of the program significantly
in remote areas; (iii) the private sector has been encouraged to participate in the bidding for
ophthalmic equipment and supplies through national competitive bidding, as a result of which
indigenous production of these items has grown, while at the same time, costs have declined
dramatically and quality substantially improved. An IOL, which had been estimated to cost up to
INR 800 when imported, is now being procured for INR 200 from Indian manufacturers; and (iv)
the government has demonstrated its continued commitment to addressing the issue of cataract
blindness by making a substantial allocation of funds for the next Plan period.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Management issues: The decision to strengthen state and district level capacity to manage and
implement the program was made with the intention of increasing program outreach and
coverage. While this strategy proved effective overall, management and staffing issues have been
- 10-



recurrent problems right through the implementation period. Frequent staff turnover has been
another problem, with DPMs being changed at the discretion of the District Collector. The
implementing agency partially corrected this by posting government staff as DPMs on additional
charge, rather than hiring contractual staff for the post, but the problem has persisted.
Procurement: The technical advances in the treatment of cataract blindness introduced by the
Project called for the procurement of large volumes of equipment and consumables, which under
World Bank procedures called for international competitive bidding and national competitive
bidding procedures to be followed. Having had no experience, the NPMC contracted a
procurement agency - RITES Ltd. for procurement of equipment and goods. The relationship
between MOHFW and RITES was initially difficult, leading to procurement delays. Subsequently
steps were taken to decentralize procurement of some items to the DBCS, which helped in
ensuring supplies of consumables and allocation of more funds to the Project States for
completion of civil works under force account. Delays in procurement were also caused by lack
of agreement on technical specifications for some of the equipment. Some procurement delays
also occurred due to a late decision to supply additional equipment such as Yag lasers.
Civil Works: There were inordinate delays in implementation of the civil works program, leading
to considerable lag in the schedule. Completion and utilization of facilities has been an ongoing
concern, particularly in Rajasthan, Orissa, Madhya Pradesh, and Chhattisgarh. This led to an
independent review of the civil works program, and separate benchmarks for completion of civil
works had been agreed with each of the Project states with a view to completing the civil works
program well in advance of Project closing, so as to enable utilization of the new Project facilities
in the remaining Project period. This resulted in timely action in Rajasthan and Orissa, where the
civil works program was completed in an exemplary fashion and buildings were operationalized.
However, for Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, it was agreed that works not completed or
utilized for the purposes intended according to the agreed plan, would not be financed by the
Bank.
Financial Management: Some of the major financial management issues that have impeded
Project implementation have been flow of funds to DBCS, flow of fumds to NGOs, and
inadequate utilization of available funds by state cells: (i) annual budget allocation from the center
to the states was consistently lower than that indicated in the Project plan. Over the Project
period, allocations for the Project were INR 4,600 million as against the Projected Project cost of
INR 5543.6 million; (ii) release of funds from GOI to the states was expected to occur on a
quarterly basis. However, these were inevitably delayed while GOI waited for substantial
expenditure to occur from previous releases to states. This led to delays in implementing
activities, as well as delays in payments for civil works and to NGOs; and (iii) after funds were
released to the State's finance departments, delays would occur while the finance department
scrutinized each proposal before approval especially when states were in a difficult fiscal
situation. This situation was considerably eased after state level societies were formed and funds
were released directly to them.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The original Credit amount was SDR 85.300m (USD 117.80 m). An amount of SDR 7.33m was
cancelled on the recommendation of the mid-term review in January 2000, revising the Credit to
- 11 -



SDR 77.97m. At the time of the MTR, it was recognized that expenditures in the Project were
unlikely to match projections made at appraisal due to i) fall in prices of equipment and IOLs and
ii) exchange rate savings. The MOHFW developed a plan of action for the remaining Project
period, with increasing emphasis towards quality of care and better coverage of women and
underserved populations in tribal and remote areas. Subsequently, in November 2000, the
Closing Date of the Project was extended by one year, from June 30, 2001 to June 30, 2002, with
a further proposed cancellation of funds of USD 20m. In March 2001, USD 20m was reallocated
to a new component to support the Gujarat Earthquake Rehabilitation Program. The final
disbursement took place on Nov 27, 2002, at which SDR 14.600m (USD 19.643m) amount of the
Credit was cancelled, and the balance of the Credit amounting to SDR 70.700m (USD 94.236m)
was disbursed.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The sustainability rating for the Project is highly likely. The rationale for this rating includes:
Financial sustainability: Since cataract blindness control is an important component of the
on-going national program, and will continue to need government support due to the large
proportion of those requiring surgery being below the poverty line, GOI has allocated an
additional INR 4,450 million during the period 2002-2007 for the program. This allocation is
similar to the allocation that has been made towards the program during the previous five years
under the Project.
Institutional sustainability: The management of the cataract blindness control program has been
institutionalized at the central, state and district levels through an extensive network of societies.
The DBCSs will be maintained, and continue to procure materials and deliver services at the
district levels. SBCSs have also been set up in all states. The NPCB has also initiated efforts to
integrate cataract blindness control services into the general health care system at the secondary
and primary levels, thus providing a base for overall eye care.
Creating an enabling environment: The Project has been able to raise the public's awareness that
cataract blindness is curable, thus generating demand for cataract surgery, particularly
ECCE/1OL. At the same time, the ophthalmic industry has developed in the country, and high
quality indigenously produced materials and equipment are available at low cost. The conditions
have been created whereby an individual perceives him/herself to be in need of cataract surgery,
and facilities are available in both the government and the private/NGO sector to fulfill this need.
These private and NGO entities are now financially viable.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Cost Recovery: Cost recovery had initially been included as part of the Project. However, during
the MTR, the government requested that the covenants concerning cost recovery be dropped in
light of extensive field experience that indicated that government services were utilized by the
poorest of the poor, and as such needed to be provided free of cost. Since then, several NGOs
have experimented successfully with levying user charges; such initiatives are likely to become
more common in the private/NGO sector. The success of such initiatives indicates that there is a
- 12 -



willingness to pay for cataract surgery. GOI plans to implement cost recovery more extensively in
future, while putting in place an adequate mechanism to exempt from payments those below the
poverty line.
Sustainability of systems for program support: The computerized Management Information
System, network of Sentinel Surveillance Centers, standard tested methodology for Rapid
Assessment, Beneficiary Assessment and Epidemiological studies have now been internalized into
the system. These tools have been vital to focusing program inputs and maintaining the
momentum of the program. They will continue to be used to monitor the implementation of
activities in the Project states, and will also be extended to the other states.
Sustainability of training resources: Training institutions have been identified and developed in
both the government and nongovernment sectors in different parts of the country to provide
continued training support for cataract blindness control activities. The NPCB even has plans to
extend training support to similar programs in the South Asia region through these institutions.
Sustainability of partnerships: The Project has developed effective partnerships with the
private/NGO sector which will sustain beyond the Project period. The NPCB plans to continue
funding NGOs and has developed revised guidelines for this purpose.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Banzk
7.1 Lending.-
The Bank's lending performance has been satisfactory. The Bank was able to draw upon
valuable prior experience of Danida and other agencies that had implemented similar small
Projects in India. The Project objectives and design were consistent with national goals for the
control of blindness. The Bank facilitated the government's efforts to develop the technical
framework and build consensus among the center, states and private/NGO sector on Project
objectives and design.
An analysis of risks to the achievement of Project goals were conducted, and appropriate
measures were included in Project design to minimize such risks. The 34 annexes to the Staff
Appraisal Report bear testimony to the detail in which all aspects of Project implementation were
prepared: (i) technical aspects, including technical guidelines, list of staff and equipment needed
by type of service delivery facility, training program for ophthalmologists, training of allied
personnel and service delivery models; (ii) program aspects such as Projected cataract workload
in the selected states, partial list of NGOs involved in cataract blindness control, revised
management structure of the NPCB, management information system, mechanism for quality
control and planned operations research; and (iii) implementation aspects such as implementation
timetable, procurement arrangements, flow of funds chart and supervision plan. A notable
omission was civil works, and this proved to be a problem during implementation. Performance
indicators were specified for measuring outcomes of the program, and baseline data was
collected. Process indicators, however, were not specified.
7.2 Szpervision:
The Bank's supervision is rated satisfactory. Supervision missions were conducted regularly
- 13-



twice a year, and were pro-active in addressing pending issues. Initial problems associated with
start-up such as delays in staffing, procurement and civil works were addressed by including the
appropriate specialists on the team. The procurement, disbursement and financial management
specialists based in the New Delhi Office provided on-going guidance and oversight on these
issues. At the MTR, implementation progress was evaluated in detail, and several strong
measures were taken to bring the Project focus back to the agreed objectives:
Until the MTR, task management of the Project was Head Quarters based; subsequently, task
management was shifted to the New Delhi Office. This arrangement strengthened the partnership
between the Bank and government teams, and allowed the Bank to be more responsive in
resolving day-to-day problems faced during implementation. The Bank responded with a sense of
urgency to (i) the government's request for amendments to the legal agreements and cancellation
of a portion of the Credit; and (ii) the government's request for extension of the Closing Date to
allow for consolidation of the gains of the Project.
Supervision was enhanced by several studies/reviews undertaken by the Bank to help focus
supervision: (i) In 2000, an independent review of the civil works component was conducted.
Based on this, a new implementation schedule was drawn up and agreed upon, and subsequently
closely supervised by the Bank architect consultant; (ii) A model of cataract blindness prevalence
was developed, comparing scenarios with and without the Project. The model can also be applied
to forecast future program needs based on expected cataract blindness prevalence; and (iii) An
analysis of the IEC program was undertaken. This yielded some useful recommendations for
building upon the current IEC strategy and making the IEC program more effective.
7.3 Overall Bankperforniance:
Overall performance of the Bank is satisfactory. The independent review of civil works, the
modeling of cataract blindness prevalence in the years to come, and Bank-initiated review of the
IEC program, regular biannual supervision, as well as the Bank's flexibility and responsiveness to
the Borrower's needs, have all contributed to the quality of supervision.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's Project preparation is rated satisfactory. Project preparation was fully
participatory, with the involvement of the states, NGOs and private ophthalmologists, other
agencies involved in blindness control including Danida and WHO which had the experience of
implementing several pilot cataract blindness control programs in India), and past and potential
beneficiaries. DBCSs were set up in all Project districts during the preparation phase, in readiness
for direct transfer of Project funds from the central government. Technical and training
workshops were held with technical advise from the National Eye Institute of the National
Institutes of Health, WHO and Danida. A review of the NPCB was held with State Program
Officers and District Collectors where agreements were reached on the administrative changes to
be introduced by the Project. Japan Grant funds were utilized for beneficiary assessments,
facilities surveys and a survey of ophthalmologists to determine availability of skills. Technical
norms, training needs, equipment and supply needs and a partial list of NGO partners were all
finalized during preparation.
- 14-



7.5 Governrnent implementationz performance:
Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory. The government's commitment to
expanding cataract blindness control activities was evident from the start: it was one of the very
first Projects in the disease control sector for which they requested Bank funding. Due to the
challenges of scaling up a previously small scale and technically outdated program to one that
covered seven major states and emphasized quality enhancement, the program did suffer from a
slow start. However, the government provided an enabling environment in terms of facilitating
the participation of the private/NGO sector in Project implementation which helped expand
outreach. On the other hand, funds flow from GOI to the DBCSs was an on-going problem, and
contributed to slow disbursement as well as slowdown in Project activities. The audit reports
were generally received after the due date and disbursements on SOE procedures were suspended
twice in 1996-97 (GOI and AP) and 1997-98 (AP and TN). Disallowances were present in
almost all the states basically on account of advances and non-eligibles having been claimed from
IDA. Although this systemic weakness prevailed throughout with total disallowances (from GOI
and participating states) aggregating over INR 190 million, the Borrower was able to get a major
part of it recertified from the Auditor and reclaim it from IDA. This weakness was basically due
to lack of proper training and knowledge of claim preparation and other disbursement related
issues. At the end of the Credit period, a disallowed amount of INR 9.744m still remained
unrecovered, which would be refunded by the client.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the NPMC, DBCS and SBCS is rated as satisfactory. Some of the factors
that contributed to the relatively successful implementation of the NPCB are: (i) decentralization
of implementation to the district level; (ii) provision of facilities, equipment and consumables to
enhance the quality of cataract surgery; (iii) provision of training through partner institutions in
modern surgical techniques and the development of a cadre of trained surgeons; (iv) regular
monitoring of program outcomes and active follow through; and (v) promotion of private/NGO
sector involvement to increase service delivery and outreach to remote rural areas. There were
persistent problems of staffing and funds flow which impeded implementation initially, and
continued to be stumbling blocks through the life of the Project. However, several strategies
were developed to try and overcome these problems, with some success. The decision to post a
serving government officer at the district level as a DPM was partially successful in overcoming
the problem of frequent turnover and disempowerment of DPMs. Similarly, the creation of
SBCSs has to some extent eased the flow of funds to the district level. In addition, inadequate
attention to quality of civil works led to the decision not to fund some works. Overall, the
programs' emphasis on quality and the record of successful sight-restoring surgery has generated
awareness and demand in the community for ECCE/JOL surgery and contributed significantly to
the sustainability of the program.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The Cataract Blindness Control Project in India is the only Bank-funded blindness control Project
in the world, apart from the River Blindness Control Project in Africa. At the time of preparation,
therefore, the Project could not draw from lessons from previous Bank experience. However, the
- 15 -



Danida experience of implementing similar pilot Projects in India provided valuable guidance, and
many successful Danida initiatives were incorporated into Project design, as has been pointed out
earlier. The 8-year experience of implementing the Project has now yielded lessons that would be
useful for other health sector Projects in India.
Institutional
1.    Effective partnerships make a difference. The development of guidelines that were
effectively implemented to involve the NGO and private sector in service delivery, particularly in
the peripheral areas, were able to expand the reach of the program in previously underserved
areas. Such efforts were not only cost-effective, but also have contributed to long-term
sustainability of Project benefits.
2.    A well designed monitoring mechanism is an essential management tool. The
development and utilization of tools such as the Rapid Assessment Survey and the National
Survey can help in streamlining the program, identifying problem areas and organizing an effective
response. In addition, project indicators of success were defined not only in terms of inputs and
outputs, but primarily in terms of outcomes. This makes a significant impact on how the project
is managed, monitored and evaluated.
3.    Projects can be leveraged to make a difference to the program. As a result of the funding
and support received by the Project over the last 8 years, the entire NPCB's capacity has been
built up, with improved technical norms and standards and an extended management network.
The establishment of state level societies has strengthened the capacity of the states to better plan,
control and monitor district level activities particularly with respect to financial management
systems. Existing capacity at the state level in financial and program management and service
delivery do determine the effectiveness of project implementation. However, it is possible as was
the case under the Project, to build capacity of all states by actively promoting sharing of
experiences and adoption of best practice of the better performing states. As a result, GOI has
enhanced funding for the entire program to be on par with the level of funding it has received so
far through external assistance.
Technical and Social
1.    A context-specific package of services needs to be planned in remote and rural areas, since
a combination of lack of eye care facilities, poor transportation, and inadequate communication
are considerable challenges to people's ability to access eye care. One package will not fit all
situations.
2.    A thorough and participatory preparatory process is essential, where the main
stakeholders become the actors and decision makers in project design. In addition, well-designed
beneficiary assessment studies and knowledge, attitude, practice studies are necessary to address
issues of gender disparity, low literacy, poverty, and lack of motivation which can potentially
adversely affect utilization of services. Fear of surgery, myths, and resorting to uncertified
practitioners could also be more effectively addressed through this mechanism. Recognition of
- 16 -



the different segments of patients and their cultural and social variability should become a
standard feature of human development projects to ensure access and positive outcomes.
Operational
1.     With the additional funding and technical assistance, including equipment and training, to
the Project states, the disparity between Project and non-Project states, particularly in terms of
IOL surgery, has become very obvious. After 1999, GOI tried to bridge this gap by initiating
various activities from their own budgetary resources. However, non-Project states still have
considerable catching up to do. In Projects which find activities only in a few select states, as is
the case with many Bank-funded Projects, it would reduce inter-state disparities to some extent if
the government steps in where possible with adequate funds and training in a timely manner.
2.     The focus of the Project was to reduce prevalence of cataract blindness, since cataract
blindness was the leading cause of blindness and its control would substantially reduce the
prevalence of blindness in India. However, the administrative, infrastructure and technical inputs
of the project considerably strengthened the capacity of the NPCB to manage other emerging
causes of blindness such as refractive error, childhood blindness and glaucoma. Funding a
program with an apparently narrow focus, provided the Bank an entry point to restructure and
strengthen the provision of systems and services for addressing all causes of blindness. By
providing technical assistance and the benefit of international experience, the Bank's involvement
was able to upgrade blindness services both in the Project states as well as indirectly in the
country as a whole.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrowver/implementing agency.
The Govenrment of India is in agreement with the findings and performance ratings conveyed in the report.
1.     Preamble
National Programme for Control of Blindness (NPCB) was launched in the year 1976 as a 100% centrally
sponsored programme with the goal of reducing the prevalence of blindness from 1.4% to 0.3% of
population. A National survey conducted during the period 1986-89 revealed that prevalence of blindness
was 1.49% and Cataract accounted for 80% of blindness.
Government of India realized urgency to tackle the problem of cataract blindness and approached the
World Bank for additional resources. A soft credit of US$ 117.8 million was agreed by IDA to control
cataract Blindness in India. The World Bank assisted Cataract Blindness Control Project was thus
launched in 1994 to reduce the prevalence of blindness in 7 States, namely Andhra Pradesh, Madhya
Pradesh, Maharashtra, Orissa, Rajasthan, Tamilnadu and Uttar Pradesh, where prevalence of blindness
was higher than the national average of 1.49%.
The mid-term review of the project was carried out during the year 1997-98 after which some strategic
changes were made in implementation of the Project. The project was to end on 30th June 2001 but was
extended by one year up to 30th June 2002 to complete the unfinished tasks. The IDA credit for the project
was reduced to US$ 86.5 million.
- 17-



2.     Objectives
The project aimed at development of a sustainable eye care infrastructure and systems for eye care service
delivery that would reduce the backlog of cataract blind persons. Specific objectives of the project were:
(i)    Upgrade the quality of cataract surgery
(ii)   Expand coverage to underprivileged areas
(iii)  Reduce the backlog of untreated cataracts to lower the prevalence cataract blindness by more than
50% by performing 11.03 million cataract  operations.
(iv)   Develop human resources and institutional capacity for eye care particularly training of
Ophthalmologists in ECCE/IOL cataract surgery
(v)    Promote outreach activities/public awareness
(vi)   Establishment District Blindness Control Societies in all districts
(vii)  Create an enabling environment for involving NGOs and private Sector in eye care delivery
(viii)  Develop mechanisms for cost recovery to sustain the project activities beyond the project period.
3.     Borrower's Performance
3.1    Project Management
(a)    Central: A National Project Management Cell was constituted by integrating Technical
(Ophthalmology) Section in Directorate General of Health Services and Administrative (Blindness Control)
Section the Ministry of Health. 17 new posts were created under the Project including posts of Joint
Secretary, Under Secretary, Desk Officers, Procurement Officer, Accounts Officer and support staff. In
addition, Consultants in the field of IEC, Training, Civil Works and Financial Management were appointed
from time to time. While there was change in Joint Secretary and other officers from time to time, Deputy
Director General and Assistant Director General in technical section continued throughout the Project
Period. With these steps, capacity for planning, managing and monitoring of the project was developed at
the central level.
(b)    State: State Ophthalmic Cell, headed by Joint Director, was strengthened by creating four
additional posts. In some States, some consultants/coordinators were appointed as and when required.
However, there was limited development of managerial capacities in the State due to frequent changes of
officers. During the last 3 years of the Project, the States were directed to constitute State Blindness
Control Societies to strengthen monitoring and supervision.
(c)    District: Implementation of Project was decentralized by forming District Blindness Control
Societies in all the districts in Project States. Government of India disseminated guidelines indicating
composition, constitution, functions and other subjects relating to District Blindness Control Societies.
Each DBCS appointed a full time District Programme Manager (DPM) on contract basis who was
designated as Member Secretary of the society and was primarily responsible to organize and manage the
project activities. A two-week induction training programme was organized in small batches (20-25
trainees) by the central cell using a prototype curriculum and training manual. This input developed
managerial capacities at the district level. Quarterly review meeting were organized at State and Central
levels to monitor progress in implementation of the Project.
3.2    Financial Management
While the Credit Agreement was between Govemment of India and IDA, each Project State had entered
into an Implementation Agreement with IDA. The Project was generally implemented with full commitment
of the States. Each State opened a separate Head of Account where funds received under the Project were
- 18 -



accounted for. Audited reports were generally submitted in time i.e. within 9 months of closure of a
financial year. Flow of funds from Govermnent of India up to district level was affected by various factors
leading to under utilization of available funds. This resulted into reducing the credit from US$ 117.6
million to US$ 106.5 million and later to US$ 86.5 million. Main factors that affected utilization of funds
and disbursement are given below:
(a)    Lower allocation offunds: Annual budget allocated for the Project was lower than contained in
Project Plan (EFC Memorandum). Annual plans were prepared within the allocated budget. Over the
project period, including one extended year, Rs.4600 million were allocated for the Project against project
cost of Rs.5543.6 million.
(b)    Delayed Release offunds: Funds from GOI to the States are released on a quarterly basis. Finance
department would agree for release of funds when substantial expenditure has been incurred by the States
out of previous releases. This was not possible in case of civil works as these were time consuming
activities. Funds for III and IV quarter were released late giving very little time to the States to utilize them
within a financial year. Similarly, grant-in-aid to DBCSs was released in small installments of Rs.300,000
to Rs.500,000 and regulated by receipts of expenditure reports and utilization certificates.
(c)    Delay in release offunds from State Finance to Health Departments: Cash grants to States are
released to State finance departments who would examine each proposal and then release funds to the
health department for utilization. There was inadvertently delay in this mechanism. For activities like
training and EEC, releases were not made or were delayed. This delay was avoided in later part of the
Project in those States where SBCS was constituted as these received funds directly from Government of
India and not through State Finance departments.
(d)    Human Resources: The States were not able to create all the proposed posts leading to delay in
execution of some tasks and savings of funds. This was mainly due to the fact that expenditure on salaries
would be liability of the States after the project period.
(e)    Audit of Accounts: It was evident in some audit reports that the project components were not
clearly understood by the State Audit department leading to unnecessary disallowances, which were later
cleared after clarifications. Disallowances could have been prevented if the State Project Officers had taken
remedial measures before or during the audit.
3.3   Procurement Arrangements
The Procurement of goods was carried out at three levels. Items which were costly and which required
International Competitive Bidding were procured centrally by Government of India. These were installed or
supplied to the States as commodity assistance. Items which could not be purchased in bulk or had short
expiry dates were procured locally through National Shopping. Some items particularly those required to
furnish new units were procured at the State level. Generally speaking, this arrangement was satisfactory
though following problems were sometimes encountered from time to time:
(a)    Problems in Technical Evaluation: Procurement of equipments and consumables was to be carried
out after carrying out financial and technical evaluation. As bidding was on a single bid system, prices
quoted by the bidders were known to those who undertook technical evaluation. There was a possibility of
consideration to qualify lowest bidder on technical grounds.
(b)    Representations and legal notices by bidders: There were some instances when unsuccessful
bidders had gone to the court of justice seeking intervention. Such instances delayed the process of
- 19 -



procurement and in some cases the bids were scrapped. While such instances had limited implications in
implementation of the project activities, these could have been prevented if technical evaluation was carried
out prior to financial evaluation.
(c)    Coordination with other activities: Procurement of equipments, training of eye surgeons in IOL
surgery and construction of new units were required to be undertaken concurrently. Training was a
short-term activity (8 weeks) and should have coincided with procurement of equipments. In some
instances, trained surgeons had to wait for the equipments before their acquired skills were put to use. On
the other hand, in some instances, equipments were installed before eye surgeons were sent for training.
(d)    Sub-optimal utilization: Utilization of equipments depended on availability of trained personnel,
volume of patients and quality of services. Available data suggested that number of IOL implantations had
increased as a proportion but the volume of surgery in Government sector, where maximum inputs were
made, did not increase significantly. Unlike in Voluntary Sector, screening camps were organized in a
limited manner in Government sector.
(e)    Inadequate maintenance: After supply of major equipments and the warranty period, the States
were given funds to put these equipments under Annual Maintenance Contract (AMC). This was not done
in most instances. Ad hoc arrangements were made to put these equipments in functional state.
4.     Bank's Performance
4.1    Disbursement
Disbursement of funds depended on timely submission of applications in required manner. These were to be
supported by SOEs and Audit Reports. Factors that affected disbursement included the following:
(a)    Lower allocation of funds resulting into lower releases
(b)    Under-utilization of funds by the States/DBCSs
(c)    Late reporting of expenditure incurred by various agencies
(d)    Discrepancies between SOEs and Audit Reports
(e)    Disallowances by CAA and/or the World Bank which in some instances were not justified and later
disallowances were dropped;
(f)    Delay in receipt of audit reports from the States leading to (temporary) suspension of disbursement
(g)    Expenditure perceived by the audit as irregular (which were later allowed after clarification in
number of instances).
In general, Bank followed established guidelines and in some instances waived them and allowed
disbursement.
4.2    Supervision
Review missions were undertaken regularly every six months during the Project. These missions were
undertaken in a coordinated manner and usually included field visits. Aide Memoire contained not only the
status of implementation but also mentioned benchmarks for timely action by Government of India and the
States. Multi-disciplinary review missions, particularly in the initial phases of the project, were very useful
in shaping the process of implementation.
5.     Achievements
Objective 1.  Upgrade the quality of cataract surgery
In the pre-project era, there was emphasis only on quantity of cataract surgery being performed in the
country. Prevalence of blindness in any community can be reduced only when a blind person regains the
- 20 -



vision. This is possible only if high standards are maintained during and after delivery of services.
Following steps were taken during the course of the project to upgrade the quality of cataract surgery:
(a)    Development of Norms and Standards for Cataract Surgery
(b)    Procurement of equipments and goods of high quality
(c)    Intensive hands-on training of eye surgeons in IOL Surgery
(d)    Shift in approach from surgical eye camps to fixed facilities
(e)    Focus on sight restoration through improved follow-up after surgery
(f)    Maintenance of standard Cataract Surgery Records for monitoring and follow-up
(g)    Dissemination of quality assurance guidelines
Objective 2.  Expand Coverage to underprivileged areas
Following actions were taken to expand coverage of services:
(a)    Village blind registrv: Link workers from villages were identified and oriented on methods to
identify blind persons including those affected with cataract. With this innovative approach, untreated
cataracts were identified.
(b)    Organizin2 screening camps: To provide services to untreated cases detected thorough blind
registry, screening camps were organized to confirm operable cases. Such screening camps are routinely
organized by NGOs who have adopted reach-in approach for providing eye care services. To facilitate
referral to Government hospitals, the DBCSs organize screening camps through PHC/CHC network and/or
with the help of District Mobile Units.
(c)    Microplannin2 at district level: This aimed at identifying all services providers within each
district and if required from outside the district. These service providers were allotted specific blocks of the
district for active screening followed by service delivery. While this approach had limited role in those
districts, which had adequate eye care infrastructure, it was quiet useful exercise in those districts, which
had limited eye care infrastructure.
(d)    Involvement of communitv and local leaders: Eye camps have been traditionally organized with
full public cooperation. The perception of community leaders has been very positive towards eye care
services. In many places Local Self Governments (Panchayats) are involved in organizing/undertaking
activities particularly in blind registry, screening eye camps and follow-up services.
(e)    Additional incentives for remote and tribal areas: Due to difficulty in communication and
transportation, an additional incentive of Rs.50 is provided to voluntary organizations for performing each
cataract surgery in identified areas. In addition, NGOs provide them food and even clothes at some places,
though these are arranged from their own funds. Under the scheme of providing non-recurring grants for
setting-up or expanding eye care facilities for remote rural and tribal areas, grant up to Rs. 1.775 million
were provided to 30 NGOs during the project period
Objective 3.  Reduce the backlog of untreated cataracts to lower the prevalence cataract blindness
by more than 50% by performing 11.03 million cataract operations.
(a)    Performance of Catops by year
The performance, as assessed by reported cataract operations, has been steadily increasing in all
the Project States since the inception of the project. However, the performance is far less than
- 21 -



desired levels in Orissa and Rajasthan where performance has been respectively 73% and 91% of
Project targets. Overall, 15.35 million operations (139%) have been performed against the Project
target of 11.03 million.
(b)    Cataract Surgerv Rate (Catops per 100,000 population)
The incidence of cataract is estimated to be 2 per 1000 population per year. To clear the backlog
of cataract blindness, it is therefore, necessary to enhance the performance well above 200 cataract
operations per 100,000 populations. Considering that significant number of cataract operations
are performed on unilateral cataracts, second eye of bilateral cases and those who are operated at
Visual Acuity >6/60 (thus not blind by definition), the rate at which backlog can be expected to
reduce should be over 400 operations per 100,000 population. Only 3 states (Tamilnadu, Andhra
Pradesh and Maharashtra) have reached the level of over 400 catops/100,000 population. The
performance in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh was between 300-400 operations,
while in Orissa the Cataract Surgery Rate was 235 operations per 100,000 population.
(c)    Performance by Place of Surgerv
Nearly 17% of operations are performed in Govt. fixed facilities. Many surgeries performed in eye
camps organized by NGOs are performned by Government Eye Surgeons. The proportion of
surgeries perforned in Private sector and NGO varied from State to State. There has been drop in
camp surgeries which now account for only 8% of cataract surgeries indicating shift from camps to
institutional surgery.
(d)    Catops by Tvpe of Surgery:
The Project target was to increase the proportion of the Cataract Surgeries with IOL implants to
30%. While less than 3% of surgeries were implanted IOLs before launch of the Project,
percentage of surgeries with IOL has been steadily increasing over the years. All the States have
achieved the minimum target of 30% IOL surgeries. During the year 2001-02, proportion of Intra
Ocular Lens implantation ranged between 45% in Uttar Pradesh to 91% in Tamilnadu. On an
average, 65% of cataract operations performed during the year 2001-02 were implanted with IOLs.
(e)    Prevalence and Causes of Blindness:
Recent survey indicated that prevalence of blindness has reduced in all the Project States. National
Prevalence Rate has declined from 1.49% to 1.1%. While cataract continues to be the major cause
of blindness, proportion of blindness due to cataract has reduced from 80% to 63%.
Objective 4.  Develop human resources and institutional capacity for eye care
Following activities were undertaken to meet the above objective:
a. Training of Eye Care Personnel
(i)    Training of Trainers in ECCE/IOL surgery: Two faculty members of selected Medical Colleges in
Project States were trained for duration of 16 weeks in selected training institutions in the country where
over 100 trainers have been trained. The above trainers imparted training to fellow faculty of medical
colleges, residents and post-graduate students.
(ii)   Training of District Eye Surgeons in ECCE/IOL surgery: This training was organized in selected
25 institutions identified within the country. 842 eye surgeons have been trained in ECCE/IOL surgery
under the Project.
- 22 -



(iii)  Training of other personnel: Other categories of manpower like PHC Medical Officers, PMOAs,
Health Workers etc. are being trained as per GOI guidelines. Manuals for training of Nurses in Ophthalmic
Techniques and Training in Refraction were developed and disseminated.
b. Construction of Eye Wards and Operation Theatres
Construction of Eye Wards, Operation Theatres and Dark Rooms had been a leading and time-consuming
activity of the Project. There were delays in execution of plans due to various reasons. As a result, while
the States of AP, UP, Maharashtra, MP and Tamilnadu constructed these units expeditiously; Orissa and
Rajasthan had lagged behind during the initial phase of the project. Out of 286 Eye Ward sanctioned, 273
(95%) wards have been completed. Similarly, out of 314 OTs sanctioned, 301 (96%) have been completed.
These newly constructed eye wards provided 5089 additional eye beds in District Hospitals of the Project
States, which will substantially increase capacity for institutional surgery. Out of 2006 Dark Rooms
sanctioned, 1764 (88%) have been constructed. Hospitals Services Consultancy Co-operation (HSCC) was
engaged to undertake physical audit of the works carried out in M.P.
c. Installation of Ophthalmic Equipments in existing and new facilities
Procurement at Central level
As per Project Agreement, major equipments, bulk consumables and vehicles were procured centrally
through ICB procedures.
(i)  Ophthalmic Equipments
Procurement of ophthalmic equipments was completed as per schedule. Major ophthalmic
equipments include Slit Lamp, Operating Microscope, Anterior Vitrectomy unit, Keratometer,
Indirect Ophthalmoscope, 'A' Scan Biometer, and Yag Lasers.
(ii)  Bulk Consumables:
Procurement of sutures and IOLs was as per schedule during the project period. It was one of the
reasons for enhancement of cataract surgery. NGOs also had access to IOLs and sutures supplied
centrally as these were specifically designed, were of good quality and were procured at a cost far
lower than the market price. Requirement of 10-0 sutures and IOLs rose due to increase in number
of IOL facilities and trained surgeons.
(iii) Vehicles
Vehicles provided under the project included jeeps for supervision of various activities and vans for
transportation of operable cases and teams. Each district of the Project was thus provided with 2
vehicles. These were maintained well by the DBCSs out of recurring funds made available under
the Project.
(iv)   Other items
Fax machines, photocopiers, computers with printers were procured and supplied to State Project
Cells. Sentinel Surveillance Units have also been provided with portable equipments and
computers.
Procurement at State level
The States procured furniture and other supplies required for newly constructed units.
Procurement by DBCSs
Funds released to DBCS included the component of consumables, minor equipments, micro-surgical
- 23 -



instruments and spectacles. Amendment in Credit Agreement was made to allow each DBCS to procure
goods through local shopping. DBCS procured all other consumables except sutures and IOLs. Other
minor items not supplied by the Govemment, which include sharp 'consumable' equipments, were also
procured locally. In addition DBCS awards contracts to supply glasses for postoperative cases to identified
agencies through local shopping.
Objective 5.  Promote outreach activities/public awareness
A communication needs assessment survey was undertaken in the initial phase of the project to identify
gaps in knowledge and practices of beneficiaries, decision makers in the family, community leaders and
providers of eye care. Communication strategies were developed on the basis of findings. IEC activities
were undertaken at Central, State and District levels. Central activities included development of prototype
spots and a film for telecast and radio-spots and jingles for broadcast. These were dubbed in various
languages and relayed through national and regional channels of TV and Radio. In addition, prototype
material for print media were also prepared and disseminated. State level lEC was mainly limited to
replication of prototype material developed at the Central level. District level activities were varied and
depended on local methods of communication, socio-economic and educational status of the people.
Following documents were published and disseminated to the States:
vO    Norms and Standards for Eye Care;
v      Cataract Extraction and Posterior Chamber IOL Implantation;
v      Guidelines for District Blindness Control Societies (3 editions);
vO     Guidelines for Participation of NGOs (3 editions);
v      Manual on Training in District Programme Management;
Ophthalmic Nursing Manual;
A Practical Guide on Refraction;
v      Formnulary on Ophthalmic Drugs;
vO     Modules on Quality Assurance;
%O     Communication Strategies for Blindness Control;
v      From Darkness to Light: The Coimbatore Path;
v     NPCB information booklet.
As part of baseline, mid-term and terminal evaluation, the following reports were documented:
vo     Communication Needs Assessment Surgery;
v      Beneficiary Assessment Survey (Baseline and Terminal);
vO     Rapid Assessment of Cataract Blindness (Mid-term and terminal);
v      Cataract Blindness & Surgical Outcomes Survey, Bharatpur, Rajasthan;
v      Cataract Blindness & Surgical Outcomes Survey, Sivaganga, Tamilnadu;
v      Assessment of Outcome of Cataract Surgery;
%O     Evaluation of Training of Ophthalmic Surgeons in ECCE/IOL Surgery;
v      Survey on Blindness in 15 districts (under preparation);
v      Cost-benefit analysis of Cataract Blindness Control Project (in progress);
      Evaluation of NGOs assisted under the project (in progress).
Public awareness about need for cataract surgery, advantages of IOLs and availability of free services has
risen. It may not be fully attributed to IEC activities alone as good results generated by services and
experiences by those who were successfully operated had an important role in generating public awareness.
As a result of these, demand for cataract surgery, particularly IOL surgery rose to unexpected levels.
- 24 -



Objective 6. Establishment District Blindness Control Societies in all districts
Establishment of District Blindness Control Society as the nodal agency for implementing of the Project
was quite successful. In-depth review of all DBCSs was organized in 1999-2000 to assess their functioning
including financial management. Two strategic changes were made thereafter for sustainability of this
model of decentralized management:
*      Setting up of State Blindness Control Society: This aimed at decentralizing monitoring and smooth
flow of funds to DBCSs. So far Tamilnadu, Orissa. Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh has formed SBCSs and
other States are in the process of doing it. Funds to DBCSs are now routed through SBCSs in those states
where these are established.
*      Designating one of the key district level officers as District Programme Manager. Contractual
DPMs were paid full remuneration whereas these officials would be paid additional allowance for their
responsibility as DPMs. This was done to reduce expenditure.
Objective 7.  Create an enabling environment for involving NGOs and Private Sector in eye care
delivery
In the initial phases of the programme, there was over dependence on Government sector to implement
NPCB. With the advent of Cataract Blindness Control Project, there has been large-scale participation of
NGOs in various activities of the Project. This has been possible due to development of various schemes
where financial assistance is provided under the project. NGOs are involved in following activities:
a)     Performance of Cataract Surgery: Scheme for providing grant-in-aid for conducting free cataract
operations in eye camps and base hospitals motivated many NGOs to assist in this endeavor. Assistance
was revised from time to time and currently Rs.400 is provided for each conventional surgery and Rs.600
for each IOL surgery. Funds are provided to NGOs by respective DBCSs and this had considerably
reduced delays in payments and strengthened monitoring. Nearly 50% of funds provided to DBCSs were
utilized on grant-in-aid to NGOs. Due to this assistance, there was significant rise in perfornance of
cataract operations by NGOs.
b)     Setting up Eye Care Facilities in underserved areas: Non-recurring assistance was provided to
NGOs to set up or strengthen an existing eye care facility in underserved areas of the Project States. 30
such grants were sanctioned during the Project period. NGOs were selected with utmost care and taking
into account past track record and potential. Most of the projects sanctioned under the scheme have been
completed satisfactorily. An independent evaluation was carried out by two organizations as part of
terminal evaluation.
c)    Involvement in other activities: NGOs were also involved in following areas:
>      Imparting training particularly ECCE/IOL training
>      National level coordination: Many leading NGOs are members of national level committees that
are constituted by Govemment of India.
>      Evaluation Studies: Many leading NGOs were involved in various evaluation studies conducted
during the span of the Project.
Objective 8. Develop mechanisms for cost recovery to sustain the project activities beyond the project
- 25 -



period
Government of India has decided to continue support to National Programme for Control of Blindness in
the years to come so that momentum generated due to Cataract Blindness Control Project is sustained and
gains consolidated further. This is evident from the following:
a)     Sustainability after project period: Due to availability of IDA credit, financial resources for
NPCB had risen from Rs.200 million in pre-project period (year 1993-94) to Rs.1270 million (year
2001-02). Average amount available during the project period was Rs.750 million. For the period
2002-2007, Govemment of India has allocated from their own resources Rs.4450 million (Average
Approx. Rs.900 million). for the programme. This should be adequate not only to sustain the programme in
States covered under the Project but also provide similar inputs for other underserved States of the country.
b)     User charges for eye care: Many States have initiated steps to initiate some user charges for eye
care though poor would continue to get free services. Many NGOs, including those, which were given
grants under the Project, have usually three tiers system- Paid, subsidized and free. People are ready to pay
for eye care, as returns are almost immediate.
c)     Development of ophthalmic industry within the country: Though this was not a set objective of
the project, there has been significant growth in eye care industry in the country, which can at least partly
be attributed to inputs under the Project. Large consumption of ophthalmic equipments, sutures, IOLs etc.
have prompted indigenous production of these goods at reasonable cost. In fact some items like IOLs are
being exported to other countries. Price of these goods has been reduced to very affordable levels (e.g. IOL
is available at Rs. 100 a piece).
6.     Constraints, Limitation and Lessons Learned
(i)    Geo-pvhsical barriers: Various surveys indicate that prevalence of blindness is higher in remote
rural including tribal areas. Lack of eye care facilities, poor transport services and inadequate
conmnunication have made eye care inaccessible to the population residing in these difficult terrains.
Similar situation prevails in adverse climatic conditions, hilly and desert terrains and tribal belts. Such
pockets continue to be deprived of services developed during the project.
(ii)   Socio-economic factors: Ignorance, low levels of literacy, poverty and lack of motivation have
adversely affected utilization of available services. There is a tendency to postpone cataract surgery as the
visual impairment is a slow and painless process. Fear of surgery, myths and wrong beliefs have been
responsible for lower utilization of services. There is gender differences in service seeking behavior both
quantitatively and in selecting type of surgery. Affected women have usually got the raw deal in seeking
IOL implantation.
(iii)  Long term preferences for eve camps: Since 1950s, eye camps have been very popular in rural
areas. Conducting cataract surgery in schools and community centers had become a regular feature for
providing cataract surgery. Camps were the most preferred mode as it was close to beneficiaries, received
good public support and were available free of cost. People waited for camps rather than visiting fixed
facilities which were far off, required more time and money and lacked public support and cooperation.
Though there was change in attitude of public towards fixed facility services after advent of IOL surgery,
camps continue to be the first line of contact between beneficiary and provider of services.
(iv)   Mishaps leading to untoward outcomes: There were very few instances of mishaps when operated
- 26 -



cases in camp situations got complications. Such episodes led to setback in those areas where these
happened. Sometimes the media blew it out of proportion. While steps were taken to prevent such mishaps,
it took time to re-establish credibility of cataract surgery in affected areas.
(v)    Disparity between Project and Non-proiect States: There was significant differences in resource
allocation, cornmodity assistance, training and infrastructure development in States covered under the
World Bank project and the rest of the country. While this was not noticeable in the beginning of the
project, once the preferred method of IOL surgery was evidently available in the community, there was
discontent felt both by providers and beneficiaries. It was only in 1999 that Government of India tried to
bridge this technological gap by initiating various activities from their own budgetary resources at par with
Project states, though with limited success due to resource constraints.
(vi)   Non-comprehensiveness of the Project: All inputs under the Project were directed to control only
cataract blindness. This was done with the intention that as Cataract was the leading most cause of
blindness, controlling blindness due to cataract would substantially reduce prevalence of blindness. From
the beneficiary point of view, it did not matter to the affected people what was the cause of their visual
disability. They wanted help and if, unfortunately, they had any eye disorder other than cataract, they
would be referred to some hospital or were just ignored. Eye camps became exercises just to pick up
operable cataract cases. Only free cataract surgery was being promoted by giving grant-in-aid to NGOs or
support to Government hospitals. This deprived opportunity for development of a comprehensive eye care
programme in the country.
7.     Sustainability
Cataract Blindness Control Project has led to revolution in eye care sector in the country.
Availability of free IOL surgery within the reach of the common people has created an enabling
environment to sustain such services after the project. People's expectations have risen high and
discontinuation of support would demolish credibility that has been built over last decade.
Following steps have been taken to sustain activities beyond the project period:
(i)    Financial Sustainabilitv: Eye problems affect all sections of the society. Formation of cataract is a
universal phenomenon of ageing. These facts make eye care services capable of generating resources from
those who can afford to pay for services. Some steps have been taken to introduce user charges in some
States. However, as large proportion of affected persons are those who are below poverty line, there would
be need to sustain free services to the poor and subsidized services to the middle class. Government of India
has, therefore, decided to continue financial support to the programme from its own resources. Rs.4450
million have been allocated for the programme during the next five years 2002-07. This is at par with
budget that was allocated during the period 1997-2002. While substantial amount of this budget would be
utilize to sustain activities directed towards controlling cataract blindness, rest of the amount would be
utilized for developing and supporting control of childhood blindness, comeal blindness and eye problems
affecting the aged. Guidelines for Vision 2020: The Right to Sight would be generally followed.
(ii)   Sustainability of Management: Capacities for management of the programme developed during the
Project would be sustained at all levels. Decentralized management structure in the form of DBCS would
be retained. However, steps would be taken to integrate eye care services with primary and secondary
health care service delivery system.
(iii)  Capacity for providing Eye Care: While major inputs were meant for controlling cataract
blindness, equipments and human resources available in various facilities have uplifted eye care services in
general. Providing credible IOL implantation with good visual outcomes has improved public image of eye
- 27 -



departments. With some more inputs, capacity for a comprehensive eye care service programme can be
developed.
(iv)   CapaciNt for Human Resource Development: The project has identified numerous Govemment and
Non-government organizations that have capacities for undertaking various training activities required to
develop eye care services in the country. Assistance provided to some institutions for improving training
facilities and higher volume of cataract surgery have resulted into large training capacities. India would be
in a position to support HRD even in other countries of the region.
(v)    Monitoring and Evaluation Tools: Development of computerized Management Information
System, network of Sentinel Surveillance Units, standard tested methodology for Rapid Assessment,
Beneficiary Assessment and Epidemiological Studies have been developed during the course of the Project.
These have led to a sustainable model for monitoring and evaluating eye care services. Selected institutions
that had the potential to undertake reliable evaluation studies have been identified and enriched with
capacities. Systems and tools for monitoring would be sustained throughout the country including those
states that were not covered under the Project.
(vi)   Development of Ophthalmic Industrv: With procurement of large quantities of ophthalmic
equipments and consumables, there has been growth of Ophthalmic industry in the country. Indigenous
production of eye care equipments and consumables of good quality have lowered the prices of these items.
A good quality IOL is available for Rs. 200 in open market. India is today in a position not only to meet
local requirements, but is in a position to export some items.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
Additional information that describes the acheivements of the project:
Construction of Eye Wards and Operation Theaters
Project              Eye Wards                  OTs               Dark Rooms
States      Sanctioned   Completed    Sanctioned  Completed   Sanctioned  Completed
Andhra           19          18           19          18          264         264
Pradesh
Madhya           54          46           54          46          463         383
Pradesh
Chattisgarh      22          18           22          18          204         178
Maharashtra      21          21           21          21          123         97
Orissa           54          54           55          55          176         176
Rajasthan        44          44           44          44          296         198
Tamil Nadu       35          35           43          43          327         315
Uttar            32          32           47          47          150         150
Pradesh
Uttaranchal        5           5           9            9           3           3
Total             286         273         314          301        2006        1764
(95%)                    (96%)                   (88%)
Source: National Project Management Cell (Ophthalmology/Blindness Control Section)
- 28 -



Directorate General of Health Services; MOHFW, GOI. June 2002.
Ophthalmic Equipment supplied
States        Op.        Slit       A-Scan     Yag        AVU        Keratomete    Ind.
Micro.     Lamp                  Laser                 r            Oph.
Andhra           40         103        97         28         33          113          50
Pradesh
Madhya           108         71        116        29         71          100          67
Pradesh
including
Chattisgarh
Maharashtra      142         50        142        28         31           54          47
Orissa            69         56        68         10         39          65           47
Rajasthan         69         62         78         12        33           65          49
Tamil Nadu       126         88        140        32         74          119          79
Uttar Pradesh    183        170        180        39         63          165          54
including
Uttaranchal
Total            747        600        821        178        344         681         393
Source: National Project Management Cell (Ophthalmology/Blindness Control Section)
Directorate General of Health Services; MOHFW, GOI. June 2002.
- 29 -



Performance by Place of Surgery
States        Government         NGOs               Eye Camps          Pvt. & Others
Fixed Facilities   Fixed Facilities
1999-2000          2000-2001           1999-2000          2000-2001
Andhra              12.1                16.4               33.2              48.1
Pradesh                                   _
Madhya               14.1               19.0               29.6               26.9
Pradesh (&
Chhatisgarh)
Maharashtra          13.7               19.8               14.7               61.8
Orissa              20.3               25.4               43.7                16.6
Rajasthan            17.8              25.7                32.9               30.6
Tamil Nadu           8.3                7.2                73.7               37.9
Uttar Pradesh        14.9               18.8               30.5               40.3
Uttaranchal)
Total               13.3                17.2               35.0               37.8
Source: National Project Management Cell (Ophthalmology/Blindness Control Section)
Directorate General of Health Services; MOHFW, GOI. June 2002.
- 30 -



Annex I. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Indicator                     Unit/Parameter            Target     Achievements           Comments
_____       No.     %/
Development                                                               _           _
Central and State Cells/Committees/ Central Project Cell               I         1      100
Boards in position               State Project Cells                   7         7      100
Central level committees:
National Blindness Control Board      I        I       100
National Project Coordination         I        I       100
Committee
National Technical Advisory           1        1       100
Committee
Setting up DBCSs                 DBCS Registered/Functional           250      278      111
Achievement exceeds targets
Percentage of PHCs, CHCs, DMUs,  Medical Colleges                      39       45      115   due to creation of new districts
DHs, and Medical Colleges equipped District Hospitals                 220      259      117
District Mobile Units                132      254     192
CHCs/Sub-district Hospitals          277      NA      NA
PHCs/CHCs                            1936     3281     169  Includes 9 vehicles for
Percentage of DMUs and DBCS with DMU Vehicles                         538      377      70    State/central Project cells
vehicles                         DBCS Vehicles                                                Targets were revised during the
course of the project
Operation Theatres                   314      301      96
Percentage of operating theaters,  Eye Wards                          286      273      95
wards, dark rooms, etc. completed:  Dark Rooms                       2006      1764     88
Manpower and Training
Number of trained personnel by   Training of faculty as trainers      102      100      98   Information available with States
category and facility            Training of District Surgeons in IOL  661     663      100
Training of Nurses in Ophth.
Techniques                           513      100      19
Number of new positions filled up                                     4496     NA       NA
Number of vacancy positions                                          None
Number of Ophthalmic Surgeons (OS)                                   None
redeployed on surgical positions
Number of DBCC (DPM) in position                                      278      278      100  DBCC was later renamed as
Number of DBCC (DPM)trained                                           278      278      100  District Programme Manager
_(DPM)
Performance
Number of cataract operations in  Number of cataract operations
District/State and               (million)
Andhra Prades    1.32     2.41     182
Madhya Pradesh    1.80     1.94     108
Maharashtra   1.38     3.03     220
Oriss    0.73     0.53     073
Rajasthan   1.38     1.25     091
Tamilnadu    1.55     2.61     168
Uttar Prades   2.87     3.58     125
All Proiect States  11.03  15.35    139
Percentage of villages covered for                                                           Village Blind Registry initiated
screening of cataract cases by   Villages covered for screening of   None                    in 1998-99 to identify blind
talukas/districts                cataract cases by talukas/districts                         persons
Number and percentage of
achievement by facility                  Cataract Operations (million  2.97     69      124
- 31 -



(DMU/CMU/DH/MC) &               Government Fixed facilities (MC/DH)  2.73     06      148  Estimated on the basis of
Proportion of operations performed by Eye Camps (CMU/DMU)           5.50      09      128  National Survey 2001-02
Government, NGOs and private sector NGO Sector & Private Sector
400      91     123 (2)
Operations per lakh population by                  Andhra Pradesh   400       53    088 (4)
State &                                            Madhya Pradesh   400       89    122 (3) The target of Cataract Surgery
Maharashtra   400      35    059 (7) Rate of 400 per lakh population
Ranking of States among themselves                         Orissa   400       49    087 (5) was by the end of the project.
based upon performance                                   Rajasthan  400       96    149 (1) Achievement indicated is for the
Tamilnadu   400       23    081 (6) year 2001-02
Uttar Pradesh  400      96      099  Ranks of States based on
All Project States                       Cataract Surgery Rate indicated
in parentheses
Performance rates by sex,       Proportion of operations in          50       47
SC-ST/Tribal areas                                          Males    50       53
Females    30       53           Based on performance reports
SC/ST                           for the year 2000-01
Rankings of Districts in the State
(using number and percentage of                                                            Available with the States
achievement by facility in
DMU/CMU/ DH/MC)
Beneficiary Assessment
Percentage of beneficiaries satisfied                                                 90   Based on beneficiary
Percentage of problems encountered in                                                NA    Assessment Survey 2001-02
awaiting services
Reasons for not availing of existing  Economic Constraints                           41.0  Based on beneficiary
services                        Negligence                                           20.1  Assessment Survey 2001-02
Avoiding operation                                   12.4
Waiting for camps                                    11.0
Lack of motivation                                   7.2
Others                                               8.3
Knowledge about services available                                                    90
Sources of existing knowledge about Doctors                                          48.7
cataracts (Cataract Operated Persons) Eye Camps                                       4.5
Friends/neighbours                                   29.2
Spouse & family members                              13.8
Others                                               3.8
Number of beneficiaries whose sight
has been restored (self-assessment)                                                   90
Financial                                        Year Allocated Utilized  %    Utilization is higher than
allocation since 1998-99 as
Percentage of budget utilized per year                    1994-95  210.00   149.12         previous unspent balances were
(Amount in Rs.millions)                                   1995-96  540.00   275.96         utilized during the later half of
1996-97  610.00   293.94        the project.
1997-98  530.00   420.27
1998-99  530.00   538.76         Expenditure for the year
1999-00  600.00   659.63         2001-02 and 2002-03 are
2000-01  650.00   773.10         provisional as some Statement of
2001-02  960.10   460.53         Expenditures are still awaited
2002-03           246.20
Tota  4630.10  3683.32
Percentage of DBCS fully utilizing                                                         Funds are released only when
their budget                                                                         NA    previous ones nearly utilized
Cost of operation by facility (for each Govemment Fixed Facilities         Rs. 1832        Based on Cost-Benefit Analysis
- 32 -



surgery)                          NGO Fixed Facilities                        Rs. 4977         - 2002
Private Fixed Facilities                     Rs. 5332
Eye Camps                                    Rs. 1128
Correlation between cost and                                                                   Outcome of surgery in eye camps
performance                                                                                    was least successful.
Impact Evaluation
Prevalence of blindness (Baseline)                                                      1.49%  National Survey 1986-89
Prevalence of blindness (Endline)                                                        1.1%  National Survey 2001-02
Percentage of decline of prevalence                                                      26%
Districts free from backlog of cataract                                                  NA    Survey done in randomly
Classification/reclassification of                                                       NA    selected districts and thus
districts on the basis of prevalence                                                     NA    districts cannot be classified
Percentage of prevalence change in
tribal districts
Efficiency and Quality
Operations per operating surgeon per                                   700       617     88    Output in 2001-02 was 3.7
year by District/State                                                                         million operations performed by
6000 active surgeons. Output/
surgeon/year=617
Operations per bed per year by                                          50       NA            Indicator redundant as operated
District/State & Beds occupancy ratio                                                          cataract discharged the same or
the next day.
Average operations per mobile camp                                      30                     This indicator is now redundant
by district                                                                                    as camp surgery is now
discouraged
Percentage of population/villages fully                                          NA            Village Blind Registry initiated
screened                                                                                      in 1998-99 to screen population
Percentage of villages free of cataract                                                        aged 50+ and identify blind
backlog                                                                                        persons
Age distribution of cataract operations
<55                                                                              NA      18.2  Based on Rapid Assessment
55-5                                                        19.5  2001
60-64                                                       20.4
65-6                                                        19.9
70                                                        22.0
Distribution of operations by
Unilateral case                                                      41.8  Based on Beneficiary Survey
Bilateral case                                                     58.2   2002
Percentages of tumover during follow                                                    75-80 Estimates
up
Percentages of post-operative                                                            69.4  Based on Rapid Assessment
refractions performed/glasses provided                                                         2001
Percentages of cases encountering                                                        2.6   Based on National Survey 2001
surgical complications
Percentages of cases encountering total                                                  13.5  Based on National Survey 2001
failure in sight restoration (medical
assessment)
- 33 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
(in XDR million)
Project Cost by Category    Allocated USD     Actual      Percentage of
Allocated
Civil Works                         12.59          11.04          87.69
Equipment etc.                      20.14          17.33          86.05
Publicity/NGO/Op.Exp                17.53          14.90          85.00
Consultants/Training                 2.88           1.66          57.64
Incremental Sal.                    9.35            8.26          88.34
Emergency Earthquake Assistance     15.48          15.48         100.00
for Reconstruction in Gujarat
Cancelled                            7.33           7.33
Undisbursed: to be cancelled                        9.30
Total Costs                         85.30          85.30
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
International  Local    Local     Direct     Force   Consulting  Other     N.B.F.    Total
Competitive Competitiv Shopping Contracting Account  Services
Bidding   e Bidding
Drugs/Sutures  17.64      4.41                                                                  22.05
(15.88)    (3.97)   _                                                            (19.85)
Equipment &    10.18      2.54                                                                  12.72
Supplies       (9.16)    (2.29)                                                                (11.45)
I.O.L.s        6.49       1.62                                                                   8.11
(5.84)    (1.46)                                                                 (7.30)
Vehicles       4.05         -                                                                    4.05
(3.64)                                                                           (3.64)
Spectacles                5.31                                                                   5.31
(4.78)                                                                (4.78)
Civil Works               11.52       -         -        3.84                                   15.36
(9.22)                         (3.07)                                 (12.29)
Vehicle                             1.00       1.00                                              1.99
Operation                          (0.75)     (0.75)                                           (1.50)
and
Maintenance
Misc. Offices                       2.09                                     2.09                4.18
and                                (1.57)                                   (1.57)              (3.14)
Maintenance
Surgical                                      4.85                           24.53     0.25     29.63
Services by                                   (3.64)                        (18.40)            (22.04)
NGOs and
Private Secto
-34 -



Equipment                                          2.65                                                   2.65
Maintenance                                       (2.38)                                                 (2.38)
Publicity                              . -         5.61                                                   5.61
Services                                          (4.20)                                                 (4.20)
Contractual       .                                2.64                                                   2.64
Services                                          (2.11)                                                 (2.11)
Training                                                                  2.48        -                   2.48
Workshop                                                                 (1.98)                          (1.98)
Support
Salaries and                                                                        26.67                26.67
Additional                                                                         (20.07)               (20.07)
Staff
Studies &                                                                  -         1.32        -        1.32
Operational                                                                         (1.06)               (1.06)
Research
Total            38.36      25.41       3.09       16.74       3.84       2.48      54.62       0.25     144.78
(34.52)    (21.71)     (2.32)     (13.08)     (3.07)     (1.98)     (41.09)             (117.78)
- 35 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic costs and benefits analysis was carried out either at the time of project appraisal or for the
ICR.
- 36 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle             No. of Persons and Specialty       Performa ce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year   Count         Specialty                  Progress    Objective
Identification/Preparation
01/28/1992               8   MSN LEADER (1),ARCH. (1),
FIN. ANA. (1), PROC SPLST
(1), CONSULTANTS (2) TECH.
SPLSTS (2)
10/19/1992               6   MSN LEADER (1), TECH.
SPLSTS (2), CONSULTANTS
(3)
Appraisal/Negotiation
09/27/1993               11  MSN LEADER (1), PROC.
SPLST (1), TECH SPLST
(2), CONSULTANTS (4),
ECONOMIST (2),
FIN.ANA. (1)
01/27/1994               4   LEGAL (1), TECH. SPLST (1),
DISB. SPLTS. (2)
Supervision
02/12/1994                7  TASK MNGR, MSN                 S            S
LEADER (1); ORG DEV
SPEC (1); PROCUREMENT
ENG.(1);
IMPLEMENTATION SPEC.
(1); PUBLIC HLTH SPEC
10/12/1994                7  (1); CONSULTANT (2)
TASK MNGR, MSN
LEADER (1);
IMPLEMENTATION SPEC.
(1); RURAL SOCIO (1);
02/11/1995                7  PROCUREMENT ENG.(1);
FIN. ANA. (1);
CONSULTANT (2)
TASK MNGR, MSN
LEADER (1); ORG. DEV.
SPECIALIST (1); NDO (3);
IMPLEMENTATION SPEC.
(1); TECHNICAL
CONSULT. NIH (1);
MISSION LEADER (1)
11/27/1995              10   TASK MNGR, MSN LEADER          S            S
(I); BACK UP MSN LEADER
(2); PUBLIC HLTH SPEC. (2);
CONSULTANT (5)
- 37 -



11/22/1996              4
TASK MNGR, MSN LEADER
(1); CW, PROCUREMENT, MIS
(1); TRAINING
(CONSULTANT) (1);
TRAINING & MANAGEMENT
(1)
02/28/1997              6   TASK MANAGER (1); CW,        S           S
PROCUREMENT, MIS (1);
MANAGEMENT (1);
CO-MISSION LEADER (1);
OPHTHALMOLOGY, CONS.
(1); PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC.
(1)
08/01/1997              5   TASK MANAGER (1); TASK       S           S
ASSISTANT (1); JOINT
MISSION LEADER (1);
PUBLIC HEALTH SPECIALI
(1); SR. ECONOMIST (1)
04/01/1998             1I   SR. POP. SPSLT (1); PUB      S           S
HLTH. SPLSTS (2); SR. PROC.
SPLST (1); SR. PROC.
ENGINEER (1); FIN.
ANALYST (1); CONSULTANT
(4);
08/31/1998               7  PRIN.PUB.HLTH SPSLT (1);     S           S
SR. POP. SPSLT (1); PUB
HLTH. SPLSTS (2); PROC
SPLST (1); FIN. ANALYST (1);
CONSULTANT (I)
05/03/1999                  PUB. HEALTH SPECIALIST       S           S
(1); CONSULTANT (1); PRIN.
HLTH SPSLT. (1); PROC.
ENGINEER (1);
FINANCIAL MGMT. SPLST.
(1);
11/29/1999              5   PUBLIC HEALTH SPLST. (1);    S           S
PRIN. HEALTH SPSLT. (1);
PROC. MGMT. SPLST. (1);
FINANCIAL MGMT. SPLST.
(1); CONSULTANT (1)
05/25/2000              5   PUBLIC HEALTH SPSLT. (1);    S           S
PROC.MGMT. SPECIALIST
(1); FIN. MGMT. SPECIALIST
(1); CONSULTANT (2)
01/16/2001              6
TEAM LDR. (1); TSK. LDR,
PUBLIC HEALTH SPSLT. (1);
PROC.MGMT. SPECIALIST
- 38 -



(I); FIN. MGMT. SPECIALIST
(I); CONSULTANT (2)
08/23/2001                  6  SR. PUBLIC HEALTH SPLT            S            S
(1); SR. PROCUREMENT
SPLST (1); SR. FIN. MAN.
SPLST. (1); CONSULTANT (3)
01/15/2002                  6
TSK. LDR, PUBLIC HEALTH
SPSLT. (1); PROC.MGMT.
SPECIALIST (1); FIN. MGMT.
SPECIALIST (I);
CONSULTANT (3)
ICR
06/10/2002                 6    SR. PUBLIC HEALTH SPLS                        S
(I); SR. PROCUREMENT
SPLST (1); SR. FINANCIAL
SPLST (1); CONSULTANT (3)
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle -               Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation            101.2                     292.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                  33.3                      110.5
Supervision                           236.0                     548.2
ICR                                    10.0                     31.29
Total                                 380.5                    982.89
- 39 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligibie, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                       O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
Sector Policies                        O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
M Physical                              O H  * SU O M   ON    O NA
0 Financial                             OH   OSUOM      ON      ONA
? Institutional Development             0 H  0 SU O M   0 N   0 NA
IZEnvironmental                         O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction               O H  OSU*M      ON    O NA
N Gender                          O H  *SUOM      ON    O NA
El Other (Please specify)         0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
X Private sector development            0 H  0 SU O M   0 N   0 NA
? Public sector management              0 H 0 SU O M    0 N   0 NA
LI Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM OIN        O NA
- 40 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank perfornance                                Rating
3 Lending                                           OHS OS       OU     OHU
Z Supervision                                       OHS OS       OU    OHU
N Overall                                           OHS OS       OU    O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
X Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU    O HU
X Government implementation performance             O HS O S     O U   0 HU
El Implementation agency per formance               O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
Z Overall                                           O HS * S     O U   O HU
-41 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Report; Cataract Blindness Control Project. April 21, 1994.
Memorandum and Recommendation to the President; Cataract Blindness Control Project. April
21, 1994.
Cataract Blindness Control Project; Project Review Mission Aide-Memoire. June 10, 1994.
Cataract Blindness Control Project; Project Review Mission Aide-Memoire. April 10, 1995.
Cataract Blindness Control Project; Project Review Mission Aide-Memoire. December 5, 1996.
Cataract Blindness Control Project; Project Review Mission Aide-Memoire. February 28, 1997.
Cataract Blindness Control Project; Project Review Mission Aide-Memoire; August 1, 1997.
Mid-Tern Review Report; Cataract Blindness Control Project. May 13, 1998.
Mid-Term Review Report: Technical Notes on Management, Quality of Outcomes and Patient
Satisfaction, Socio-Demographic Coverage and IOL Transition Training. May 13, 1998.
Mid-Tenn Review Final Report; Cataract Blindness Control Project. October 15, 1998.
Project Status Report: Cataract Blindness Control Project (Project ID: P0 10455; Loan/Credit No.
26110). November 29, 1999.
Project Status Report: Cataract Blindness Control Project (Project ID: P010455; Loan/Credit No.
26110). May 13, 1999.
Project Status Report: Cataract Blindness Control Project (Project ID: P0 10455; Loan/Credit No.
26110). June 13, 2000.
India: Cataract Blindness Control Project: Amendments of Legal Documents. January 17, 2000.
India: Cataract Blindness Control Project: Request for Extension of Credit Closing Date and
Cancellation of USD 20m of the Credit; November 10, 2000.
Project Status Report: Cataract Blindness Control Project (Project ID: P0 10455; Loan/Credit No.
26110). March 13, 2001.
Project Status Report: Cataract Blindness Control Project (Project ID: P010455; Loan/Credit No.
26110). April 2, 2002.
India: Cataract Blindness Control Project: Final Supervision Mission Aide Memoire. June 2002.
-42 -



National Program for Control of Blindness; Progress Report. January 2001; January 2002.
National Program for the Control of Blindness; Rapid Assessment of Cataract Blindness Survey.
March 1998.
National Program for the Control of Blindness; Rapid Assessment of Cataract Blindness Survey.
June 2002.
Beneficiary Assessment of World Bank Assisted Cataract Blindness Control Project; National
Report and State Reports. ORG Center for Social Research; New Delhi; August 2002.
Murthy, GVS, S Gupta, LB Ellwein, SR Munoz, Dave Bachani and VK Dada. A
Population-based Eye Survey of Older Adults in a Rural District of Rajasthan. Ophthalmology,
Vol. 108, Number 4; April 2001.
Yajnik, KS. Simulation of Dynamics of Prevalence of Cataract Blindness in Seven Indian States.
May 2002.
Cost-Benefit Analysis of World Bank Assisted Cataract Blindness Control Project in India. Indian
Institute of Health Management Research; July 2002.
Evaluation of NGOs in a World Bank Assisted Catarct Blindness Control Project in India;
State-wise Reports. Department of Health Services Studies, Tata Institute of Social Sciences,
Mumbai; September 2002.
-43 -



- 44 -



