Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C~ . J'~                   -Lg          / // 
Report No. 12246-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
CATARACT BLINDNESS CONTROL PROJECT
APRIL 21, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12246 I14
Type: SAR
South Asia Country Department II (India)
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
"his document has a restdcted dstribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their offieiud dulies Its contents ay not otewise be disdosed without World Bsnk authization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of May 1, 1993)
Currency Unit            =            Rupee
Rupee 32.60              =            US$ 1.00
Rupee 1.0                =            US$ 0.0307
METRIC EQUIVALENTS
1 Meter (m)              =           3.28 Feet (ft)
1 Kilometer              =           0.62 Miles
FISCAL YEAR
April 1                  -           March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CHCs        -      Community Health Centers
CMU         -      Central Mobile Units
DANIDA    -        Danish International Development Agency
DBCS        -      District Blindness Control Societies
DMU         -      District Mobile Units
DALYs       -      Disability Adjusted Life Years
ECCE        -      Extracapsular Cataract Extraction
ICCE        -      Intracapsular Cataract Extraction
IOL         -      Intraocular Lens
MOHFW       -      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
NPCB        -      National Program for the Control of Blindness
NICNET      -      National Infonnatics Center Nationwide Network
PHC         -      Primary Health Center
RIO         -      Regional Institute of Ophthalmology
SEC         -      State Empowered Conunittee
WDR         -      World Development Report



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEFINITIONS
Aphakia                  Absence of the crystalline lens from  the eye.
Aphakia occurs if the lens has been surgically
removed, as in cataract surgery, or if it has been
destroyed by a penetrating object. Aphakia causes
severe loss of focusing in the affected eye or eyes
and requires correction by lens implants, contact
lenses or glasses.
Blindness                Visual acuity < 6/60 in both eyes. (See para.
2.11).
Cataract                 Partial or complete opacification in the crystalline
lens of one or both eyes.  Cataract leads to
progressive vision impairment and is the main cause
of blindness in the world. Cataract, common to old
age, can be treated by removing the opacified lens
and wearing special glasses. [Cataract is derived
from the Greek word, Katarraktes, or waterfall,
because it was thought that the whiteness behind the
pupil was a kind of waterfall descending from the
brain fluids].
Couching                 Surgical displacement of the lens backward into the
inner eye where it remains. This contrasts with
.,cract surgery where the lens is removed from the
eye. Couching is often performed by traditional
healers. Post-operative infection is the main risk
associated with this surgical procedure.
Coverage                 A measure of the extent to which the services
rendered cover the potential need for these services
in a community. It is expressed as a proportion in
which the numerator is the number of services
rendered, and the denominator is the number of
instances in which the service should have been
rendered.
DALYs                    Disability Adjusted Life Years. DALYs represent
the sum of the years lost both from premature death
and from disability associated with disease and
injury.
This documet mas a sricted distnrbuton and may be used by recipien only in the perfmae of ther
lomaiduties. Its contes may not otwise be discled without World Ban authaion    I



- ii -
Epidemiology             The study of the distribution and determinants of
health-related states and events in populations, and
the application of this study to the control of health
problems.
Extracapsular Cataract
Extraction (ECCE)        Cataract surgery performed by extracting lens
material in small pieces while leaving the posterior
lens capsule in place. Together with implantation
of an intraocular lens (IOL) behind the iris, ECCE
affords a greater level of visual rehabilitation than
that possible with conventional surgery (ICCE) and
results in fewer complications. This procedure
requires provision of operating microscopes and
microsurgical instruments, and specialized training
for surgeons.
Intracapsular Cataract
Extraction (ICCE)        Cataract surgery performed by removing the entire
lens, including its surrounding capsule.  This
method requires the use of aphakic spectacles after
surgery.  This operation is relatively simple to
perform and is most commonly used in developing
countries.
Intraocular Lens (IOL)   A clear plastic lens implanted in the eye during
ECCE surgery, which serves as a substitute for the
natural lens of the eye. Use of an IOL is indicated
for unilateral cataract cases. IOLs also eliminate
dependence of cataract patients on aphakic
spectacles.
Incidence                Number of new cases of a disease or condition over
a period of time as a proportion of the population at
risk at midpoint. Incidence means "new" and is a
direct indicator of risk.
Prevalence               Number of cases of a disease or condition at a
given point in time as a proportion of the total
population. Prevalence means "all" and is used by
health planners to assess workload and service
delivery needs.
Ultraviolet (UV)         Light beyond the range of human vision.



CATARACT BLNDNESSCONTROL PROJECT
ThAB 3F CONTENTS
PAGE NO.
CEDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......                                       ............... vi
I. DNTROUCTON
National Health Policy ........................... 1
II.  CATARACT BLINDNESS AND THE STfllUATION IN INDIA
A.   The Problem of Cataract Blindness in India .1
B.   Epidemiological and Technical Background.                                            2
C.   The National Blindness Control Program.                                             4
D.   Major Issues in Blindness Control in India                            .5
E.   External and Local Non-Governmental Assistance .10
F.   Lessons of Experience ...................... 10
G.       Country Assistance Strategy and Rationale
for IDA Involvement ...................... 12
m.  THE PROJECT
A.       Project Objectives    ........                  ..............    .14
B.   Project Strategy .......................... 14
C.   Project Scope ............................ 14
D.       New  Policies, Pr e            s  and Standards   ....              .......  15
E.   Project Description ........................ 16
biis repont is based on an appaisal miion d  visited bndi in June 1993. Ibe mission coniprised Marim Donoso
Cla* (Senior Anthropologist and Mission Leader), Salim Habayeb (Senior Publ;c Health Specialist), Kevin Casy
(Senior Ope wtos Officer), A. A. Conactor (Publc Health Specialist), Kaniz Siddiqui, and V. J. Ravisihankar
(Economists). Ihe mission was assisted by Dr. Carl Kupfer, (Direr, Nadonal Eye Instite, NIH, Consltan); Dr.
Leon Efiwein (Special Advisor to the Diror, Nations Eye Inst, NIH, Consutant), Dr. Paarinaeam
(ophdiahmologist, WHO, Consultant), Girija Brilliant (IMC Consultant). Ihe peer reviewers are Dr. C. Kupfer (NIH),
Dr. R. Paraaasegram (WHO, Geneva), Dr. 1. Javin, (Professor of Ophthalmology, Georgetown Undversity), Dr. D.
Jamison (tATAD), Y. Genevier (AFARB) and S. Davis (EllISP). Tne Proect is endorsed by Richard Skolnik.
Chief. Populadon and Human Resources Operations Division, and Heinz Vergin, Director, India Country DepartMnL



- iv -
IV.  PROGRAM COSTS. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Costs ......... .......................... 28
B.    Financing Plan  ...........................  29
C.    Sustainability  ...........................   30
D.    Cost Effective-iess .......................... 33
E.    Implementation ..........................  34
F.  Monitoring ........................... 37
G.    Disbursements  ...........................  39
H.    Procurement  ...........................  40
I.  Accounting and Auditing .42
V.  BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits .42
B. Risks ......                                                44
VI.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  .... ......... 45



v -
PAGE NO
TABLES
4.1  Cost By Component ........................................ 28
4.2  Cost By Categories of Expenditures ........................ ..  29
4.3  NPCB Expenditures ..........................  30
4.4  Procurement Arrangements .........          .................  41
ANNEXES
1.  Causes of Blindness in India ....     ......................48
2.  Prevalence of Blindness in the Seven Project States .49
3.  ICCE: Intracapsular Cataract Extraction .50
4.  ECCE/IOL: Extracapsular Cataract Extraction/Intraocular Lens .51
5.  Cataract Surgery - Targets and Performance .52
6. Pattern of Expenditure by States on the National Program for the Control of
Blindness .53
7.  Expenditures Since 1985-86 on the National Program for the Control of Blindness
In Constant 1992 Rs. (Million) .55
8. Partial List of Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) Involved in Blindness
Control ............................ ................... 56
9.   Projected Cataract Workload in the Seven States ................. .  57
10.  Service Delivery Models ..................   58
11. List of Staff and Equipment Needed by Type of Service Delivery Facility .59
12. Technical Guidelines .60
13. Required Equipment for Conducting ECCE/IOL Surgeries .66
14. Guidelines for Selection of NGOs and Private Practitioners .68
15. Sumary Plan of Action in Tribal and Other Isolated Areas.                 70
16. Tiie-Table for Training .72
17. Selection of Medical Colleges as Institutions for Faculty (Trainer) Training .73
18. Traming Program for Ophthalmologists .77
19. Trainig of Allied Personnel and Others in Ophtialmology .80
20. Mangement Training .83
21. Outreach and Information, Education and Communication (IEC) Strategy      85
22. Organizational Structure of the National Program for the Control of Blindness ... 86
23. Management Information Systems .94
24. Mechanism of Quality Control .95
25. Planned Operations Research .96
26. Expenditure Accounts by Years and Categories Procurement Arrangements.    98
27. Implementation Timetable .104
28. Multi-level Participatory Process in Project Development .112
29.  Project Monitoring and Evaluation (Essential Benchmarks) .114
30. Data Collection .117
31. Supervision Plan .119
32. Forecast of Expenditures and Disbursements .122
33. Flow of Funds Chart .123
34. Selected Documents Available in the Project file .124



-vi -
INDIA
CATARACT BLINDNESS CONTROL PROJECT
(REDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
India, acting by its President
lDenefciarkets:     States of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh,
Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Orissa
SDR 85.3 million (US$117.8 million equivalent)
Ilrms:              Standard, with 35 years maturity.
tLending Tenns:   Government of India to the States of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya
Pradesh, Andhra Pradcsh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu
and Orissa in accordance with standard arrangements for
development assistance to States.
ltionw :            The objectives of the project are to upgrade the quality of
cataract surgery, expand services to underprivileged sectors, and
reduce the bacldog of untreated cataracts. India's efforts to
address the cataract problem has been stymied by inadequate
treatment capacity and by increasing numbers of new cases each
year. The National Program for Control of Blindness (NPCB)
has been unable to prevent the build-up of 20 million untread
cases because of financial, managerial and technical constraints.
The proposed project would help improve NPCB's quality of
service and expand its treatment capacity by: (a) enhancig
quality of care and expanding service deliverv through new
strategies, policies, technical and operational norms; increased
use of modern surgical techniques; and expanded coverage of
rural and isolated populations with extensive NGO and private
sector involvement; (b) developing human resources for eve care
delivery by strengthening selected training institutions,
upgrading the skills of ophthalmic and health personnel, and
providing management training for Central, State and District
project managers; (c) promotng outreach activities and public
awareness by supporting NGOs and community involvement, and
raising awareness about cataract blindness through mass and
taditional folk media, and interpersonal communications; and (d)
dveloping institutional capacit at the Central, State and District
levels, developing collaborative mechanisms with the non-
government sectors, introducing measurable monitoring
mechanisms, and conducting operations research.



- vii -
jendits:            The project would help eliminate most of the cataract blindness
backlog by bringing the blindness prevalence down by 50% in
the seven project states. More than 11 million surgeries woult
be done over seven years. It is estimated that an effective
cataract program in India would save about 2.4 million Disability
Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) annually, and more than US$357
million in lost wages and injury-related health care expenditures
over the seven years of the project. The project would greatly
improve the quality of eye care, build local capacity and promote
private sector development. It would also reduce the burden of
caring for the blind, increase the quality of life of the individual
and give access to services to the most disadvantaged groups,
namely rural women, and scheduled tribes and castes who iend
to have higher prevalence than the rest of the population for lack
of access to ophthalmic services. It is estimated that more than
50% of the beneficiaries and almost all care-givers of the blind
are women.
Biwa:               The project would entail several risks because of t'he major shifts
required in program policies and strategies, the logistical
requirements associated with reaching remote areas, the diverse
administrative capacity of each of the seven states, the important
role expected of the ophthalmic and NGO communities, the
possibility of poor visual outcomes expected under any type of
surgical intervention for a small percentage of treated patients,
and the expansion of a technology that until now has been
restricted to tertiary-level facilities or private practices and
available mostly to those who can pay. These risks should be
offset by the detailed and participatory process followed during
preparation, the appropriate phasing of project inputs, the checks
and balances introduced in the project design including the
concept of "full disclosure" and "informed consent," and the up-
fronit agreement by GOI and the concerned States to the policies,
processes and norms developed with government and state
officials, Indian ophthalmologists and NGOs. The project would
create an enabling environment for greater private sector
involvement and build institutional capacity, which should also
help reduce these risks.



- viii -
Estimated Program  Cost: /a
Locai        ForX         Toa
Us$ Mmio-
Strengthening Service Delivery           98.7          20.0        118.7
Developing Human. Resources for Eye Care   3.3          1.7          5.0
Promoting Outreach & Public Awareness     7.6           2.4         10.0
Developing Institutional Capacity         73            0.7
TOTAL BASE COST                         117.0          24.8        141.7
Contingencies                       -2.4           5.4          3.1
TOTAL PROGRAM COST                      114.6          30.2       IlA  /b
/a  Including Taxes and Duties equivalent to US$4.7 million.
/b   Figures shown are the costs of the Enhanced NPCB in the seven
states plus the national program costs and are used as the basis for
calculating the incremental project cost of US$ 135.7 million. See
also table 4.3 in the SAR for explanation of this calculation.
US$ Millon 
Government                          17.9           -           17.9
IDA                                 87.6          30.2       117.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS             1035.4          02
Estimated Disbursements.
IDA FY        FY95   Y96  F97 Y EY           Y99       FYOIO FYO1FYQ2
Annual       7.7   13.2   18.3   18.0   18.7   17.8   18.1    6.0
Cumulative   7.7   20.9   39.2   57.2   75.9   93.7  111.8  117.8
Economic Rate of Ret:  Not Applicable
Poverty Categorg: Program of Targeted Imerventio1i. One of the project's main
objectives is to expand service delivery to poor and underserved areas ard to improve
access to cataract surgery for tribal populations and women. The project cotins
specific strategies for delivering services to these two groups.



INDIA
CATARACT BLINDNESS CONTROL PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
National Health Poliey
1.1       India's current National Health Policy gives high priority to fertility control,
infectious and endemic diseases of public health significance. such as tuberculosis,
malaria, and blindness; and preventable causes of maternal and child mortality and
morbidity. The National Health Policy includes quantified targets for the 1990s and the
year 2000 under a pkogram called "Health for All by 2000," which aims at the
elimination of leprosy as a public health problem and the reduction of blindness
prevalence from 1.3 to 0.3 per 1000 by the year 2000. However, current achievements
in all areas already lag behind these targets except for childhood immunization. In the
case of blindness, the result has been an accumulated backlog of untreated cataracts that
has raised the prevalence of blindness in India to one of the highest in the world. In an
effort to strengthen the social sectors to mitigate the effects of adjustment, the
Government of India (GOI), supported by IDA's Social Safety Net Sector Adjustment
Project (Cr. 2448-IN) is giving emphas is to the endemic disease programs, including the
National Program for Control of Blindness.
1.2        The proposed blindness control project would help advance India's health
agenda and meet the long-term goal of providing eye care delivery at low cost. The
project would be fully consistent with the Govermnent's stated objectives of improving
the delivery of health and family welfare services to rural communities and strengthening
the health system's efficiency and effectiveness. It would also support GOI's policies and
objectives for major disease control, which include use of appropriate technology,
enforcement of appropriate standards of care, quality enhancement of service delivery
through increased emphasis on training, retraining, and non-salary inputs, mobilizing
NGOs and the private sector, and strengthening the role of the states and districts in
program planning and implementation.
H. CATARACT BLINDNESS IN INDIA
A. The Dimension of the Blindness Problem
2.1        About 13 million Indians suffer from bilateral blindness; more than one-
third of the world's total blind population of 35 million. Roughly 80%, or more than 10
million of India's blind population is the result of cataract, compared to 50% worldwide.
Another 10 million Indians suffer from unilateral, or one eye cataract blindness. Other
causes of blindness in India include uncorrected refractive errors, glaucoma, corneal
opacity, trachoma, and vitamin A deficiency (Awnex 1). Blindness prevalence varies by
geographical location, gender and degree of urbanization. Prevalence is higher among
women, 1.6% compared to 1.4% for men; and in rural areas, 1.59% compared to 1.01%
in urban areas. Annex 2 shows the prevalence in the selected project states which are
among the 10 States and Union Territories with the highest prevalence of blindness.



- 2 -
2.2         The economic and social costs associated with blindness are especially high
in India because of its high prevalence and the early-age onset of cataract which affects
economically active individuals. In 1990, it was estimated that 2.4 million Disability
Adjusted Life Years (DALYs)l are lost annually to cataract blindness. Almost half of
these lost years are to individuals who otherwise would be economically active. Forty-
five percent (45%) of cataract cases are under the age of 60; globally, most individuals
develop cataracts after tbe age of 60. A possible explanation for India's early onset of
cataract may be an excesive exposure to ultraviolet rays and inadequate nutrition.
2.3        India's attempt to lower its prevalence of cataract blindness has been
stymied by inadequate treatment capacity and by an increasing number of cases. With
a backlog of 20 million people with cataracts, 10 million of them bilaterally blind, and
with the ability to perform a maximum of 1.5 cataract operations annually, many of them
with unsatisfactory results, India faces a major obstacle in its fight against blindness.
Moreover, the backlog increases each year. Using World Health Organization (WHO)
appro,ximate estimates, India adds 1.4 million new bilateral cataract blind cases each year,
and 2.5 million new unilateral cases. Between 1990 and 2025, with the over-65
population projected to grow from 37 million to 102 million, the annual incidence of
cataract cases would almost triple.
2.4         The only way to stem this tide is to increase treatment capacity in the high
prevalence states. Seven such states-Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra
P adesh, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, and Tamil Nadu-have beer selected for the project;
they account for 70% of cataract blindness in India. It is estirnated that over 11 million
surgeries will be needed in the project states over the next seven years to address the
backlog problem, advance India's goal to reduce the prevalence to 0.3%, and prepare the
country for the expanded demand of an aging population. A major factor in achieving
these goals would be to expand coverage, and improve the quality of surgical outcomes
to increase service demand.
B. Enidemioloical and Technical Backound
2.5        Cataract, an opacity in the normally clear, crystalline lens of the eye, is
usually caused by chemical changes in the lens resulting in loss or reduction of vision.
There are different types of cataract (congenital, juvenile, senile, cortical or nuclear), but
only cataract blindness related to aging (senile cataract) is considered a public health
problem.
2.6        About 90% of examined individuals over age 65 show signs of cataract.
Senile cataract may show no symptoms and be discovered only on routine examination;
however, a gradual, painless decrease in vision over a period of months or years, usually
involving blurred vision and sensitivity to light, is a common symptom. When cataracts
develop, they usually affect both eyes, but rarely at the same rate.
I DALYs (Disability-Adjusted Life Years) represent the suin of the years lost both from
premaure death and from dizability associated with disease and injury.



2.7        The actual causes of cataract are still unknown; therefore no preventive
treatment has yet been found. Studies point to several risk factors such as malnutrition
or a diet poor in vitamins C and E, smoking, moderate to heavy alcohol consumption,
severe attacks of diarrhoea, and excessive exposure to the sun's ultraviolet rays, but until
now there are no conclusive findings. Cataract may also result from disorders during
pregnancy, eye infections, medications, exposure to radiation, or eye injuty and therefore
affect children and young adults. Glaucoma, diabetes or metabolic disorders may also
increase the risk of cataract.
2.8        Although cataract cannot be prevented, it can be cured. The clouded lens
can be removed surgically in a procedure that takes five to twenty minutes depending on
the technique used. Cataract surgery is highly successful and over 90% of patients in the
developed world regain useful vision. Success rates are less encouraging in the
developing world due to complications resulting from infection, operations on unhealthy
eyes, lack of refraction glasses, and use of inappropriate surgical technique for unilateral
cases.
2.9        Sight reswration in cataract cases involves two steps: a surgical removal of
the lens, and the correction of the resulting refractive error. Two surgical techniques are
used: Intracapsular Cataract Extraction (ICCE) and Extracapsular Cataract Extraction
(ECCE). The standard ICCE technique involves removing the clouded lens including the
entire capsular membrane that holds it (Annex 3). Sight in the aphakic eye (eye without
the natural lens) is restored through spectacles to focus light on the retina. The safety,
speed, and simplicity of ICCE under local anesthesia has been the preferred technique
for mass intervention programs for senile cataracts; however, ICCE/spectacles surgerj
is suitable only for bilaterally blind cases. When individuals blinded by cataract in one
eye undergo ICCE surgery, double vision results from the difference between the
magnified image as seen by the operated eye with spectacles and the image seen by the
normal eye.
2.10       Extracapsular cataract extraction (ECCE) accompanied by implantation of
ntraocular lens (IOL)-an artificial lens made of clear surgical plastic-has almost entirely
replaced the ICCE procedure in the developed world. In this more sophisticated surgical
procedure, the lens is removed leaving the capsule bag intact. The IOL is inserted in the
cleaned-out capsule and connected by loops that are part of the IOL structure (Annex 4).
This procedure, although technically and medically more desirable, is more time-
consuming than ICCE, requires increased surgical skill, microsurgical medical
instruments, intraocular lenses and other supplies. Although ICCE and ECCE may be
appropriate interventions for bilateral cataract blindness, depending on the availability of
resources and skills, only ECCE with IOL should be prescribed for unilateral cases to
avoid double vision.
2.11       Depending on the level of visual impairment, individuals may be considered
socially blind or economically blind. The socially blind (vision S 3/60) are individuals
whose level of visual impairment requires that an object, which can be recognized at a
distance of 60 meters by a normal eye, be brought to a distance of 3 meters. The
economically blind (vision < 6/60) are those whose vision requires that an object oe
brought to a distce of 6 meters when a normal eye could see it at a 60 meter distance.



- 4 -
The latter is the definition used by India in reporting data on blindness. Functional
blindness standards in the U.S. relating to eligibility for benefits generally define
blindness also as less than or equal to 6/60. These distinctions are important for
diagnostic purposes and because estimates of the number of blind vary depending on the
definition used.
2.12       The Bank's study on Health Priorities and the 1993 World Development
Report (WDR) identified cataract blindness as an important health priority for developing
countries. If left untreated, cataract blindness results in a signifi-ant public health
problem because it affects the economic productivity and the quality of life of the aff'xted
individual. It also imposes a burden on others as a blind person becomes increasingly
dependent on family members for economic support and assistance in day to day activities
and a burden on the health system for treatment of injuries associated with blindness.
C. The National Blindness Control Progam
2.13       Background. The first organized national effort to control blindness in India
was the National Program for Tra.homa launched in 1963. Twelve years later, when the
Indian Council of Medical Research Survey revealed that cataract was the major cause
of blindness in India, the national program changed focus and was renamed the National
Program for Prevention of Visual Impairment and Control of Blindness. The new
strategy emphasized health education, mobile health care through eye camps, and
development of permanent infrastructure for community-oriented eye care. In 1976, the
National Program for Control of Blindness (NPCB) was formally launched and included
in the Prime Minister's 20 Point Development Program.
2.14        Program Objectives. The NPCB aims to provide comprehensive eye care
at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels including treatment for all eye diseases, such
as cataracts, conjunctivitis, vitamin A deficiency, ocular injury, corneal diseases, and
glaucoma, and correct refractive errors. It promotes eye health nationwide through
health education activities in communities and through school visits where children are
screened for eye diseases, provided with vitamin A supplements, and taught about proper
eye care.
2.15       Organizational Structure. The NPCB is 100% centra;ly-sponsored. It is
managed through two separate units at the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare
(MOHFW), a Central Ophthalmic Cell under the Director General of Health Services and
an Administrative Unit under a Joint Secretary. At the state level there is a State
Coordination Committee and a State Ophthalmic Cell which oversee resource allocation
and compliance with performance targets under the supervision of the Ministry of Health
and Family Welfare. Until recently, there was no organizational structure at the district
level. District Blindness Control Societies have been created within the past year to
implement the program at the district level.
2.16       Program imnplementation. Service delivery is offered at both fixed health
facilities and through mobile units. At the district level, ophthalmologists are stationed
at ophthalmic units of the district hospitals. At the local level, ophthalmic assistants



- 5 -
(OAs) are to be placed at Community Health Centers (CHCs) and Primary Health
Centers (PHCs). Many of the posts approved, however, remain vacant.
2.17       In remote areas, the main service delivery strategy is through eye camps.
Central mobile units (CMUs) attached to medical colleges and district mobile units
(DMUs) located in district headquarters are expected to perform outreach activities and
operations, and to provide general eye care in remote areas. However, only half of the
DMUs needed have been allocated and many of them are in poor operating conditions.
2.18       Difficult cases are to be referred to the Medical Colleges' Departments of
Ophthalmology which also train medical and paramedical personnel and conduct
ophthalmic research. Thirty seven (37) training centers for ophthalmic assistants have
been established and nine Regional Institutes of Ophthalmology (RIOs) have been created
with the expectation of becoming regional centers of excellence. Technical guidance is
provided to all institutions by the Rajendra Prasad Center for Ophthalmic Sciences (RPC)
at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi.
2.19       Target figures for cataract operations to be performed in each state are
established yearly to monitor program performance. These targets are set at the central
level based on the state's estimated backlog, infrastructure facilities, and previous
performance, but often target allocations are arbitrary for lack of adequate information.
State performance in meeting these targets varies greatly. Target figures remained
roughly constant in 1987-1989, increased slightly in 1989-91, and increased considerably
in 1991-92. However, increases in target numbers have led to a decrease in the
percentage of target achievements because capacity for setvice delivery and management
has not been strengthened to correspond to target increases (Annex 5).
2.20       Despite NPCB's efforts to emphasize community-oriented eye care services
and reduce the cataract backlog, the program is not meeting its objectives for a variety
of reasons (see paras. 2.21 - 2.42). The program suffers from inadequate organizational
structures, poor technical standards, lack of properly trained ophthalmologists, limited
fmancial support, and poor resource allocation at the community level, with tertiary
facilities and salaries absorbing over 75 % of ophthalmic expenditures in the states. As
a result, treatment capacity is inadequate, surgical outcomes are deficient and many
cataract victims are unaware that cataract blindness can be cured.
D. Major Issues in Blindness Control in India
2.21       The following program constraints have curtailed the effectiveness of the
NPCB and are expected to be addressed by the proposed intervention.
Policy and Stratey Issues
2.22       Lack of Strategic Program Mana,ement. Program administration has been
limited to allocating resources, providing some technical advice, setting targets and
monitoring target achievement without strategic planning or monitoring systems to
measure appropriate resource allocation and performance.



-6 -
2.23        Fragmented Efforts by the Private. Voluntary and Public Sectors. The
NPCB has been unable to establish a coherent strategy to coordinate the efforts of the
private, voluntary and public sectors involved in blindness control in India; as a result,
coverage has been insufficient and erratic. Urban areas are generally well served by all
three sectors, but most rural areas, particularly the tribal ones, depend solelv on the
public sector and receive uneven and infrequent services, or no service at atl. Voluntary
agencies--at times with government involvement-have carried out the bulk of cataract
surgeries in some states, but this coverage is selective and inefficient, and cases continue
to accumulate in rural areas.
2.24        The challenge for the NPCB is to create an enabling environment for the
private, voluntary and public sectors to work in a complementary fashion; for example,
the public sector would need to make infrastructure available in the rural and remote
areas for use by voluntary and private practitioners. Such an approach would avoid
redundancy of efforts, increase coverage, access and quality of services, and benefit from
economies of scale. In areas where the voluntary sector plays a strong role, the public
sector would play a more limited role in service delivery. Where the voluntary sector
is weak or non-existent, the government would need to ensure adequate provision of
services and encourage future involvement of the voluntaiy and private sector.
2.25        Emphasis on Ouantity over Ouality. NPCB has focused primarily on
increasing the number of cataract operations without assessing the quality of outcomes
or patient satisfaction. To meet numerical targets, most unilateral cases are being
operated on with the traditional ICCE technique which is medically inadvisable and leads
to patient dissatisfaction, as noted earlier. In addition, by counting these unilateral cases,
performance has been overstated because sight restoration is not achieved and blindness
prevalence is not reduced. A study of eye camp surgeries conducted between 1980-89
showed that over 45% of treated cases had been operated on with traditional ICCE
technique. To reach the project objectives of sight restoration, the NPCB will need to
shift its emphasis from purely numerical targets to measuring outcomes as well.
Financial Constraints
2.26        From  1985 to 1992, total expenditure on blindness control in India as
reported by NPCB, ranged from 85 to 100 million rupees (US$3 million) each year.
From 1985 to 1991, the Central Government's expenditure on blindness control
decreased each year, declining from 85 million rupees in 1985 to 59 million rupees in
1991. During this period the states contributed an increasing amount of money from
their own budgets to compensate for the lack of Central fundinge and to be able to meet
their targets. Annex 6 shows the 5-year average expenditure by the states in cataract
blindness. In 1991-92, the amount released by the Government of hIdia increased over
2 As the states do not have separate accounting procedures for ophthalmic units, it is
difficult to report precise state expenditures. The figures discussed here and presented in
Annex 6 represent the best available estimates of state expenditures on the NPCB. These
figures do not include additional state expenditures on various ophthalmic units located in the
medical college hospitals, specialized hospitals, and district hospitals.



- 7 -
50 percent to 97 million rupees; this amnount covered almost the entire nationwide
expenditure as the states reduced substantially their contribution to the program allowing
them to make reallocations to other health priorities (Annex 7).
2.27        Budgetary allocations for cataract treatment have been inadequate to make
significant headway in reducing cataract blindness prevalence, particularly in the rural
areas.  The states have generally emphasized expanding infrastructure rather than
improving effectiveness and efficiency of existing facilities. In addition, a gap exists each
year between the amount sanctioned and the amount released to the states by the Center.
In 1991-92, 124 million rupees were sanctioned by the Center, but only 97 million rupees
were released. A delayed release of funds caused by bureaucratic inefficiencies leaves
insufficient time for the states to incur expenditures from the NPCB; and once funds
reach the state level, they are often diverted to other activities, particularly tertiary care,
or are earmarked in such a way that the states are prevented from using funds for critical
blindness control expenditures. To overcome these obstacles, a flow of funds directly
to the district level would be needed to give some financial autonomy to the District
Societies to facilitate implementation.
Technical Issues
2.28        Deficiencies in the Cycle of Care. Poor quality outcomes are often the
result of inadequate diagnosis, inappropriate surgical procedures and lack of patient
follow up. As noted earlier, India continues to operate unilateral cases with traditional
ICCE technique, mostly among the poor. While ICCE technique is perfectly suitable for
bilateral cases, given the conditions available in developing countries, competent
screening and appropriate selection of surgical techniques are critical for achieving visual
restoration. This is often not achieved due to lack of adequate diagnostic training, limited
availability of ECCE/IOL surgical skills, and inadequate post-surgical follow-up.
2.29        India's capacity to provide high quality care including ECCE/IOL surgery
must be expanded through proper training of surgeons and ophthalmic personnel,
adequate provision of materials, and higher standards of care. As the backlog of cataract
blind patients decreases, a higher percentage of individuals requiring surgery will be
unilaterally blind, making the expansion of ECCE/IOL capacity a critical factor in
preparing India for the future.
2.30        Excessive reliance on camps in improvised facilities. India relies heavilv on
eye camps to reach rural populations. Improvised camps are widely used for several
reasons. First, there is an inadequate availability of facilities in sub-district hospitals or
Community Health Centers. Second, patients are more willing to seek treatment when
they are part of a group. Camps have a festive and communal atmosphere, are less
intimidating and costly than hospitals, and are more accessible. Third, camp organizers
gain social prestige and, for many, restoring eye sight has a religious value. Fourth,
restoring sight is seen by many as charity rather than a health service and therefore in
many instances, the quality of care is unwittingly compromised. And fifth, surgeons are
more readily available for sporadic camp services than for permanent assignments in rural
areas.
2.31        There are good reasons for continuing with the camp approach and the
traditional ICCE technique, particularly during the transition period; however, the



- 8 -
emphasis must be on camps in fixed medical facilities, rather than in improvised facilities
such as schools. This would help maintain the positive features of the camp while
ensuring quality control and follow up care. Because camps are organized in ad-hoc
manner. patient follow-up depends largely on the willingness of the individual to return
for a check up thus increasing the risk for poor visual outcomes.
2.32        To overcome these constraints, the NPCB will need to modify its service
delivery strategy, adopt new technical standards, ensure adequate training of ophthalmic
personnel, provide the required inputs, and educate the patients about eye care.
Organizational and Mfanagerial Issues
2.33        Division of Authority at the Center. A limiting factor for the NPCB has
been the lack of integration and cohesion in the organizational structure of the program.
As indicated in para. 2.15, NPCB management has been split between two MOHFW
units, one technical and one administrative, with different reporting relationships. The
Assistant Director General (Ophthalmology) is responsible for the technical aspects of the
program in the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) The Joint Secretary
(Health Services) in MOHFW is in charge of the administrative functions, including
policy, planning and project management. As a result of this organizational dichotomy
at the center and the weak managerial set up in the states, communication at the different
levels is fragmented and service delivery efforts are irregular.  A consolidated
organizational unit at the Center and State levels responsible for all aspects of project
management, including appropriate technical support, would greatly increase efficiency
and effectiveness.
2.34        Incomplete Organizational Structures. The program has made significant
progress, despite its limited resources, in developing basic infrastructure and allocating
staff. However, the NPCB's ultimate objective to provide eye care services in the
periphery has been hampered, in part, by the lack of an organizational structure at the
district level. Prior to the preparation of this project, only a few districts had established
District Coordination Committees. As a result, decisions have been overly centralized
and made on the basis of perceived needs with little infusion of information from the
working level. Reporting relationships are tenuous and distant, and commr,unication
among the staff working on the program is limited. Allocation of staff and organization
of camps are opportunistic, and bureaucratic bottlenecks make it difficult for inputs and
equipment to reach health posts at the community level, leaving isolated and tribal areas
severely underserved.
2.35        Establishing District organizations with a degree of financial autonomy,
clear lines of accountability and reporting relationships under a common managerial and
administrative framework would allow the program to improve effectiveness, expand
coverage, increase reliability, and improve the quality of services.
2.36        Underutilization of Existing Facilities.   Despite the investments in
infrastructure, equipment and manpower, many facilities remain underutilized for lack
of materials and supplies required for service delivery. When surgeons are available,
they compete with surgeons in other specialties for use of operating theaters. The few



- 9 -
dedicated eye care beds are often used for other purposes and non-working mobile units
keep the ophthalmic assistants and surgeons idle.
2.37       The NPCB will need to clhange its approach in allocating resources to ensure
that "complete service delivery packages" for essential care are in place. Critical
equipment must be placed under a strict schedule of preventive maintenance, and spare
parts must be available to keep equipment functional.
Human Resources Issues
2.38       Concentration of Ophthalmologists in Urban Areas. Two thirds of the
nation's ophthalmologists wurk in the private sector with a few working in remote areas.
Efforts to place ophthalmologists in rural areas have been problematic. Inadequate living
accommodations, lack of educational and professional opportunities and higher health
risks are major disincentives. Many ophthalmologists in the government service are
assigned non-ophthalmic functions, reducing the availability of trained personnel to work
in rural areas. A strategy is needed to ensure that services are provided regularly by
relying more heavily on Ophthalmic Assistants for non-surgical eye care, using
ophthalmologists in an intermittent but systematic way, improving referral and patient
transportation, and providing appropriate living accommodations for government surgeons
and their families, when necessary.
2.39       Limited Onhthalmic Training. Indian ophthalmologists are trained primarily
in conventional ICCE sutiery techniques. While an increasing number of Medical
Colleges offer training in ECCE/IOL, the quality of the training in both techniques is
compromised by insufficient equipment for "hands-on" surgical training, lack of
systematic and rigorous certification standards, and limited or non-existent practical
training. Refresher courses and in-service training for ophthalmologists and other
ophthalmic personnel are scarce. To improve the quality of service, the NPCB will need
to support improvement of existing training facilities, the technical and teaching skills of
the trainers, and the content, quality and frequency of training of ophthalmic personnel,
including changes in the medical curriculum for ophthalmo.ogy.
Socio-cultural. Logistical and Financial Issues for Potential Beneficiaries
2.40       Among rural populations, folk beliefs and practices play an important role
in decisions to seek treatment. A .recent study found that about 40 % of those suffering
from cataract blindness do not seek surgery for various social, cultural and psychological
reasons such as fear of surgery, hospitals or travel, poor quality outcomes among
relatives or neighbors, family obstacles, fatalistic beliefs, and reliance on outdated
practices such as "couching," and folk medicine. Many individuals consider blindness a
natural condition of life, predestined by supernatural forces and therefore irreversible.
There is also a widespread belief that treatment is possible only in the winter months.
2.41        The same study found that about 60% of those aware of surgical treatment
did not seek surgery because of logistical and economic constraints. Geographical
isolation limits access to facilities posing a serious problem for women without sons who,
often can not find an escort. Other major obstacles include: transportation costs, loss



- 10-
of wages as a result of accompanying family members for surgery, unauthorized fees at
service facilities and other related expenses.
2.42       A significant challenge for the NPCB will be to create the appropriate
outreach and public awareness programs to help overcome these obstacles. It is
necessary that outreach activities rely heavily on community participation and NGO
involvement. Account must be taken of the difficulties of reaching isolated areas in
plamning and compensating NGOs for such services or providing transportation for the
patients. Tailor made messages and approaches to reach tribal populations need to be
developed.
E. External and Local Non-governmental Assistance to NPCB
2.43       Cataract blindness has been a priority of many local and foreign NGOs
providing support to the NPCB through outreach activities and surgical eye services
throughout India. A partial list of NGOs involved in blindness is included in Annex 8.
The Danish Development Assistance Agency (DANIDA) is presently undertaking pilot
projects in 5 districts in different states and assisting in the development of the NPCB,
and WHO has provided technical assistance to the project. Additional assistance has
come also through Indo-UK collaboration.
2.44       NGOs have substantially supplemented the Government's outreach and
treatment efforts by developing and implementing a multi-pronged approach using printed
materials or other media, public lectures and community-based education activities, and
conducting surgical camps. Valuable operational experience has been acquired through
the work of these international and local agencies, and innovative community-based
approaches for outreach and service delivery have been developed. The project would
tap into existing arrangements with NGOs and promote new ones to expand the coverage
and intensify the output and quality of surgeries.
F. Lessons of ExDerience
2.45       Considerable experience with cataract blindness control has been
accumulated through "Cataract-free-zone projects" throughout the developing world as
well as from donors such as DANIDA, WHO and mnmerous NGOs. Following are the
major findings from these experiences:
2.46       Benefit of ECCEAOL onerations. Experience in the developed world shows
that the technique of ECCE su:gery, with the implantation of an IOL behind the iris,
affords a level of visual rehabilitation that surpasses that achieved with traditional ICCE
technique and use of spectacles. As ECCE requires the provision of operating
microscopes and microsurgical instruments as well as surgeons trained in this procedure,
it is not always possible to provide ECCE operations in a camp setting or to all patients.
Given these requirements, the use of ICCE for bilateral cataract cases is appropriate;
however, for unilateral cases, for whom treatment with ICCE results in fusion problems,
and for patients whose jobs require precise eyesight, ECCE/1OL operations must be
performed.



- I1 -
2.47       Vision is not restored in a significant number of cases.  Pre and
postoperative visual acuity data from other developed countries show that a significant
number of patients do not recover vision after surgery for a variety of reasons such as:
(a) the presence of blinding conditions other than cataract that go undetected until after
surgery, (b) many aphakics do not wear prescribed spectacles due to breakage, loss of
glasses, and fusion problems in unilaterally blind cases, and (c) many of these cases, if
not operated with ECCE/IOL may not be better off than prior to surgery; resulting in
dissatisfied clients who often demotivate others in the community. To minimize these
issues, patients must be properly screened for surgery to detect any other blinding
conditions and recommend the appropriate surgical technique. For those undergoing
ICCE surgery, adequate provisions are needed to facilitate access to spectacles.
2.48       Decision on cataract surgery must be based on the patients' functional
needs. The high rate of cataract surgery, the normal risks involved with any surgical
procedure and the associated medical costs in developed nations, especially the U.S., has
prompted a recent comprehensive review of current practice in recommending cataract
surgery. New guidelines issued in the U.S. advocate that cataract surgery should be
delayed as much as possible unless vision is severely impaired. Surgeons should rely
heavily on the subjective feeling of the individual in determining whether surgery is
indicated in otherwise healthy people. It is generally agreed that a reduced visual
function that interferes with the everyday activities of the patient must be paramount in
determining whether cataract surgery is indicated.
2.49       Need to shorten oosto erative stas.  Reducing the length of the
postoperative stay has been successful throughout the world, most notably in developed
countries where cataract surgery is often an outpatient procedure. A shorter stay
promotes cost contaimnent, improves efficiency and encourages patients to seek surgical
intervention. For the patient and the accompanying party, a shorter stay implies
significant savings in food expenses and lost wages. Decreasing this economic burden
is likely to increase the willingness of individuals to come forward for cataract surgery.
2.50       Patients are reluctant to seek cataract surzerv. As noted in paras. 2.40 and
2.41, several financial, logistical and socio-cultural factors prevent individuals from
seeking cataract surgery. A major deterrent for seeking surgery has been poor surgical
results. In some cases, even repeated attempts to change the mind of refuters have been
unsuccessful, especially if someone in the community has had a negative experience with
eye surgery. Improved quality outcomes and appropriate outreach and communication
activities must be made available to counteract these barriers.
2.51       Experience of Bank-assisted Projects. The Bank Group's only experience
in financing blindness control has been with the Riverblindness Control Program (WPS
No. 0740) which covered several African countries, with WHO as the executing agency.
Given the differences in the nature of the disease (caused by a parasitic worm) and the
organizational arrangement of the project, no particular lessons can be applied to the
proposed project; however, several implementation-related issues have been learned from
the Bank's investments in the PHR sector in India and have been taken into account in
project design.



- 12 -
2.52       IDA's financing in the PHN sector in India includes eight population
projects, one maternal and child health project, four nutrition projects, an AIDS control
project and a Leprosy elimination project. Three of the population projects have closed.
The first two3 met most of their objectives but had little impact on the overall Family
Welfare Program. The Third4 achieved very good outcomes in backward districts of
Kerala, but mixed results in Karnataka. The Fourth (Cr. 1623-IN) and Fifth Population
(Cr. 1931-IN) projects have already shown positive results on morbidity, infant mortality
and fertility. The Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project (Cr. 2158-IN) was very successful in
meeting its nutrition outcomes. The AIDS control project (Cr. 2350-IN) is being
successfully implemented and has been identified by WHO as a model of interagency
collaboration. The other ongoing projects are fairly new and the experience with them
has been mixei.
2.53       The most significant lessons learned from implementation of these projects
include: (a) the need for a strong project management team at the Central and State
levels and of staff continuity for at least the first three years of the project; (b) the
importance of stakeholders' support and involvement in project preparation and
implementation; (c) the need for better training on administrative procedures at the
district and state levels; (d) the value of closer supervision and follow up of the allocation
of project funds and of expenditures fund. to ensure tiat they are timely and adequate;
and (e) the need for attention to the qualitative aspects of projects through their
implementation.
G. Countrv Assistance Strategy and Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.54       The Bank's Country Strategy is aimed at accelerating economic development
and alleviating poverty through structural adjustment and selected investments. To
address the major problem of low human capital development in India, a key feature of
the strategy is to improve access of the poor to human resource development programs,
and to improve the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of these programs. The Social
Safety Net Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2448-IN) has helped to provide an enhanced
policy environment in the social sectors and is being complemented by specific
investment projects. In health, the Bank's two-pronged strategy is to help India reduce
as quickly as possible the brirden of key endemic diseases such as leprosy, tuberculosis,
blindness and malaria; and strengthen the states' health systems to provide efficient and
effective primary health care over the medium term. The Blindness project is consistent
with this strategy. It would address one of India's most extensive public health problems,
and it would build institutional capacity at the Center and in the states and districts to
develop and provide quality eye care.
2.55       IDA's involvement is justified on several grounds. First, the project would
direct resources to one of the most cost-effective health interventions while preparing
India technically and institutionally to address one of its high health priorities in a
3 First Population Project, PPAR No. 3748 and Second Population Project, PPAR No.
8896.
4 Third Population Project, Kerala and Karnataka, Cr. 1426-IN.



- 13 -
sustainable fashion. Second, the proposed project is consistent with IDA's strategy of
reducing inequalities by improving access to health care for the poor, particularly
scheduled tribes and women. And third, IDA has a comparative advantage in serving as
a catalyst to bring the changes needed for blindness control in India because of its access
to high level international experts and its faniliarity with issues from experiences
worldwide.
2.56         With IDA involvement, India would be able to cover most of the backlog
of more than 10 million cataract blind case3 (of which 7.0 million are in the seven
states),5 and be ready to deal with the increasing incidence of cataract resulting from
changes in the age structure of the population. The chart below illustrates the future
cataract situation in the seven project states with and without the project interventions,
in quantitative terms. In addition to reducing the cataract backlog, the project would
bring about significant qualitative changes through new technical and managerial
standards, and a more equitable access to services.
Cbart 1
Summary of Catarad Surgerla -wa and without Project interventions
7 mi_
c\ 
Ptjo    Ptjj mt      r      wei _rje    Pmu - rj~   Prjc   Woec  Fc3c .occ -   '  .:,,
A                                \                        '                  i      % 
C 4 i\l                                                            _     *       ;  
2M   or   E ta  1   IOLlion atat  i  wt  cli
No  Wbb    No  Wilb    No  Wllb    No  WBb    No  Whh    No  Wilh    No  With
hot  lNal   PMJ Pmi     P*l P"      POi  Pt     PrC PM      FM    11e   Poj ftR
1995        1996        lg9         1998        1999        2000        2001
5 More than 1 1 mifllion cata surgeries will be performed through the project including
most of the 7.0 million cataract blind, patients seeking surgery in the second eye (having had
one-eye ICCE surgery in the past) and an increasing number of unilateral cases.



- 14 -
2.57       Along with the obvious high private returns, regaining sight has significant
social returns. It allows economically productive people to return to work at least in
40% of the cases and prevents .dditional medical expenses resulting from blindness-
related injuries. Sight restoration improves quality of life, social standing and reduces
dependency on family mrembers. Without public sector intervention and external support,
blindness would continue to increase among the poor, particularly women and rural
populations.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.1        The objectives of the project would be to upgrade the quality of cataract
surgery, expand NPCB coverage to underprivileged areas with special attention to
women, tribal and isolated areas, and reduce the backlog of untreated cataracts to lower
the prevalence of cataract blindness by more than 50% and bilateral blindness incidence
by more than 30% in the seven participating states.6
B. Proect Stratecv
3.2         The project's strategy would involve: (a) improving the technical and
institutional capacity at the Center and in the seven states to carry out high volume, high
quality cataract surgery by strengthening existing institutions, introducing higher
standards of care and upgrading the skills of ophthalmic personnel; (b) expanding service
delivery to underserved areas and disadvantaged populations; and (c) facilitating the
collaboration of the voluntary and private sectors in a systematic fashion with the view
of taking care of the backlog and reducing the financial liability to the governments in
the long term.
3.3         The project would be part of a larger NPCB strategy with short, mediwn
and long-term goals. In the short term, the goal would be to reduce the backlog of
cataract cases through improvement in service quality, increase in surgeon's productivity,
and promotion of public awareness. In the mediumn term, it would be to develop
appropriate physical and technical infrastructure and human resources for eye care in the
periphery; and in the long-term, it would provide quality comprehensive eye care with
extensive use of ECCE/IOL and extensive participation of the voluntary and private
sectors.
C. Proect SCOE
3.4        As indicated earlier, the project would be implemented in the states of
Madhya Pradesh (MP), Uttar Pradesh (UP), Andhra Pradesh (AP), Rajasthan, Tamil
N4adu, Orissa and Maharashtra. The seven states would perform over 11 million cataract
surgeries during the 7-year project (Annex 9). In addition, the changes in policies,
6 Bilateral blindness incidence is reduced by operating on ataract cases while they are
sfill unilaterally blind from cataract, i.e., before they become bilaterally blind.



- 15 -
technical and managerial norms adopted by the NPCB through the project would have
a broader national impact benefiting also non-project states.
3.5         This section describes the overall project framework and the aggregate costs
of inputs for all seven states; however, the specific implementation strategies (e.g.,
combination of service delivery models), and the combination of inputs vary from state
to state depending on their geographic characteristics, available facilities and manpower,
social factors, and presence of NGOs, among others (see para. 3.10).  Project
preparation was carried out with the full involvement of each participating s .te, NGOs
and private practitioners.
D. New Policies. Procedures and Standards
3.6         The issues discussed in paras. 2.21 - 2.42 would be. addressed through the
following changes introduced by the project:
(a)   The organizational restructuring of NPCB at the Center with delegation of
authority and accountability for imnplemnentation to the district level through
District Blindness Control Societies.
(b)   The adoption of new technical standards for patient screening, diagnosis,
surgical procedures and follow-up.
(c)   The introduction of new policies for ophthalmologists training in Medical
Colleges and new certification standards for ophthalmologists trained
through NPCB.
(d)   The establishment of mechanisms for NGO/private sector collaboration in
the project and new fee schedules for services by non-government
providers.
(e)   The introduction of new policy guidelines for different service delivery
models, i.e., medical colleges, district hospitals, camps in fixed facilities,
camps in improi sed facilities.
(f)   The adoption of targeted strategies to facilitate access for disadvantaged
groups, particularly women and scheduled tribes.
(g)   The introduction of cost-recovery schemes.
(h)   The adoption of new  performance indicators based on surgeon's
productivity and successful sight restoration, not only on numerical targets.
(i)   The agreement on a new approach to resource allocation based on
"packages of inputs," i.e., combination of staffing, equipment and supplies
needed for quality service delivery in a coordinated fashion.



- 16 -
(j)   The introduction of a "grievance" procedure for patients' claims in case of
poor quality outcomes including those due to negligence.
3.7        At negotiations, GOI and the project states reconfirmed that these policies
have been adopted by NPCB and would be implemented through the project.
E. Project Description
3.8        The project would include four components:  a) strengthening and
expanding service delivery, b) developing human resources for eye care, c) promoting
outreach activities and public awareness ard d) developing institutional capacity.
ENHANCING QUALITY OF EYE CARE AND EXPANDING SERVICE DELIVERY
(US$118.8 million: 84%)
3.9        The project would improve the physical, technical and managerial
capabilities of different service delivery facilities including selected non-governmental
organizations and private practitioners, to provide high quality cataract treatment in situ
or through camps. The project would be implemented through a combination of service
delivery models: medical colleges, base hospitals, camps in fixed facilities (i.e., CHCs
and PHCs), camps in improvised facilities (in exceptional cases) and private practices,
in collaboration among the Central government, the State governments, non-governmental
organizations and the private sector (Annex 10).
3.10       The combination of service delivery models would depend on the
geography, social composition, beneficiary assessment results, existing infrastructure, and
presence of the private and non-govermnental s.ectors in each state. In states such as
Tamil Nadu, which has a well developed network of hospitals but limited capacity for eye
care, the strategy would be to strengthen these hospitals with basic infrastructure to carry
out camps in fixed facilities and intensive screening camps. These facilities would be used
by the government, the NGO sector and tL.e private sector. Madhya Pradesh, on the
other hand, would provide similar services through Community Health Centers (CHCs)
and Primary Health Centers (PHCs), particularly in tribal and other remote areas. In
some instances, ophthalmic personnel would be permanently assigned to rural areas,
while in others, services would be provided through itinerant personnel and mobile units
based in hospitals or other medical facilities.
3.11       Improving Ouality Control for Service Delivery. The project has been
designed in a manner consistent with WHO's manifesto on eradication of disablement and
with the goal that individuals served by the project would have their quality of life
improved by the surgery. The new emphasis would be on visual improvement, with
patient's satisfaction as the ultimate indicator of success. The project would introduce
several measures for quality control, including a team approach to surgical treatment,
new technical standards and protocols for surgical and pre and postoperative care, and
new indicators of performance based on vision restoration and patient satisfaction. The
skills enhancement and management systems introduced in the other project components
would be major factors in quality enhancement.



- 17 -
(a)   Team Approach. All surgeries would be performed with the support of a
surgical team consisting of one ophthalmologist, two nurses, and an
operating theater assistant. The ophthalmic assistant (OA) would be part
of the medical team responsible for diagnosis, screening, and follow-up of
routine cases. The out-patient department staffing pattern in a district
hospital would include two ophthalmic assistants for each ophthalmic
surgeon. Selected CHCs and PHCs in tribal and remote areas would be
staffed, at a minimum, with an ophthalmic assistant, and surgical services
would be provided by teams in mobile units. Surgeries would not be
performed unless the required medical staff, equipment and consumables
are available to ensure the highest quality of outcomes (Annex 11).
(b)  The new technical standards described in Annex 12 and developed with
technical specialists from the Center, the states and the private sector would
be adopted for all service delivery. The most salient features of these
technical norms include: i) diagnostic guidelines and screening techniques,
ii) minimum acceptable surgical standards, including number of stitches
required, iii) treating unilateral cases only if ECCE with IOL can be done,
iv) limiting ECCE/IOL surgeries to fixed facilities, and v) establishing
operational guidelines for conducting camps. Selected Medical Colleges
(30) and all district hospitals (220) would be equipped with the necessary
additional inputs to perform ECCE/IOL as described in Annex 13.
(c)   Quality Visual Outcomes. The program's effectiveness would be assessed
primarily in terms of visual outcomes, not only by the number of surgeries
performed. Payments to NGOs and private surgeons would be based on
records of quality outcomes and annual beneficiary assessments will be
carried out to monitor patient satisfaction (see para. 3.48)
(d)   Grievance Committees. The states would require each DBCS to established
a body to which any patient treated under the project may lodge any
grievance relating to the treatment provided to that patient under the
project. Each such body shall have adequate capacity to effectively assist
such patients.
3.12       At negotiations, the Project States provided assurances that each DBCS
would establish a body, consisting of members independent of the implementing
authorities, which would be authorized to receive complaints from any patient receiving
care under the Project and which would have adequate capacity to effectively assist such
patients.
3.13       Strengening Service Capacity and Imoroving Efficiencv. Selected facilities
would be strengthened based on a complete package of inputs required for essential high
quality service delivery. This package would include: an operating theater, a ward with
an average of 15 beds and related inputs, a medical "team," specified medical equipment
and consumables, and a mobile unit (for district hospitals, subdistrict hospitals and
CHCs). Selected PHCs would be equipped with a dark room and refraction equipment.
Based on this 'package approach' the following additional infrastructure and manpower



- 18 -
would be needed: approximately 480 operating theaters, 350 ophthalnic wards or
permanent camp sites with 5880 beds (or cots) and related items7; and about 2200 dark
rooms. Equipment would be inswled and operational only after qualified staff have been
placed, and training initiated, as needed. At negotiations, GOI provided assurances that
it would allocate resources on the basis of a minimwn "package of inputs" required for
optinal service at each level of service delivery.
3.14       The following additional health personnel would be needed: about 364
ophthalmic surgeons, 110)0 staff nurses, 283 operating-theater-nurses/technicians, and 260
operating theater assistants or camp coordinators. An important feature of the project
would be the placement of middle level ophthalmic personnel to the neriohery to facilitate
outreach and patient identification. An ophthalmic assistant (OA) would be assigned to
CHCs and selected PHCs in tribal areas. The ophthalmic assistants would play a major
role at the primary health care level in diagnosing and screening patients, and providing
basic eye care to the community. To facilitate transportation, about 350 OAs would
receive loans to obtain their own means of transportation. A total of 1067 new OAs
would be appointed.8
3.1'       Manpower allocation would be done largely through retraining and
redeployment of government ophthalmologists doing non-ophthalmological work, and
itinerant services from ophthalmologists posted in fixed facilities or in the private sector,
based on pre-established schedules. It is expected that with an increase in surgeon
productivity, the additional personnel will be adequate to meet increasing demand in the
long term. During appraisal, the mission reviewed the availability of trained ophthalmic
assistants and nurses for future recruitment and found it satisfactory.
3.16       ReulariN  the Oranization of Camps. To improve the quality and
availability of services, the states have proposed different modalities to regularize camp
services such as a "fixed day" approach or a yearly camp schedule. Camp organization
would be done by the districts in consultation with NGOs and other service providers to
avoid service overlap. The camps would be governed by the norms established by NPCB
and would include three sequential activities: (a) an outreach and screening camp to
identify patients, (b) a surgical camp to operate on selected patients, and (c) a
postoperative follow up camp or household visits. Equipment and manpower from the
fixed facilities would be used for the camps, e.g., mobile units from the medical colleges
and district hospitals, ophthalmic personnel, equipment and other inputs. About 170
? Simple steel frame bed, mattress, storage cabinet, stool and linen set.
8 The additional inputs listed above have been estimated following a situational analysis of
existing infrastructure and manpower availability, and on the basis of an expected average
productivity norm of 700 annual surgeries per surgeon and 50 annual surgeries per bed (taking
into account lower productivity during the first two years until the project takes off) and the
estimated 11 million surgeries to be performed.



- 19-
mobile units would be assigned to district hospitals and selected CHCs. Additional
mobile units would be allocated to areas with large tribal or dispersed populations.
3.17       Creating an Enabling Environment for Non-Profit Organizations and Private
Sector Participation. To ensure expansion of coverage, the government would work with
NGOs and private ophthalmologists. The following mechanisms wouid be used for
involvement of the private and voluntary sectors: (a) grants to selected non-profit
institutions capable of expanding their services, based on pre-approved proposals to
finance equipment or facilities; (b) seed money to private ophthalmic surgeons to
establish practice in underserved towns with populations of less than 50,000; (c) service
contracts with private physicians to offer services in underserved urban slums, and tribal
and other remote areas on a pilot basis; and (d) payments to NGOs for outreach,
screening and service delivery camps.
3.18       NGOs conducting camps would receive support from the government in
three modalities: (a) full payment per surgery if no inputs in kind are provided by the
government (Rs. 250 and Rs. 300 for remote areas); (b) partial payment if govermnent
inputs are involved (Rs. 175); and (c) payment for screening and outreach activities based
on an "accessibility" norm. Payments per surgery to NGOs are well below the actual
cost of cataract surgery which is estimated at an average of Rs. 500 for ICCE. It is
expected that about 25 grants will be given for infastructure and medical equipment to
NGOs based on approved proposals.
3.19       A small number of private ophthalmologists (about 200) are expected to
request "seed" money to start their own practice9. It is estimated that about half of the
11 million surgeries during the project period will be done by the private and voluntary
sectors, some through service conracts and fee payments from the project. Criteria for
selection of participating NGOs is described in Anmex 14. Disbursement arrangements
for grants, seed money and service contracts have been developed. At negotiations, the
Project States provided assurances that they would select non-governmental organizations
and private practitioners on the basis of the agreed criteria and procedures satisfactory
to IDA.
3.20       Expansion of Coverage to Tribal and Remote Rural Areas. Special attention
has been given in this project to the requirements of OD 4.20. Beneficiary assessments
were conducted in selected tribal and non-tribal areas. The results show different
epidemiological profiles for the two populations. Prevalence is higher among tribal
populations (e.g. 2.4% vs. 2% for non-ribal populations) and the prevalence between
the ages of 40-60 is considerably higher among tribal groups, as in Madhya Pradesh, for
example. Patient satisfaction, access to facilities and access to spectacles are also lower
9 As a pilot scheme, a smal number of private practitioners, .cwted based on established
criteria and procedures, would receive "seed* money from the project to start their own
private practice in poor, undrserved areas. The surgeons would commit themselves to
perform a certain umber of surgeries per year for a specified period of time.



- 20 -
for tribal populations than for non-tribal. Lack of information, transportation or access
to facilities, and lack of economic viability are the major reasons given for these
discrepancies. The thrust of the project is to increase coverage and accessibility in these
areas--including those isolated by water barriers-by strengthening peripheral facilities,
intensifying outreach activities, and facilitating transportation and financial support to the
potential beneficiaries. Annex 15 sunmmarizes the plan of action for tribal and isolated
areas which is in compliance with OD 4.20. At negotiations, the Project States provided
assurances that they would carry out the project activities among the tribal populations
and other remote areas according to the agreed plan of action.
3.21       To assist in the implementation of this component the project would finance
civil works, medical and other equipment, medical consumables (e.g. drugs, sutures,
spectacles, IOLs), salaries, vehicles, office materials and equipment, and compensation
to NGOs and private surgeons.
DEVELOPING HUMAN RESOURCES FOR EYE CARE (US$5.0 Mqillion: 4%)
3.22       Through this component the project would allow strengthening of about 40
training institutions; it would finance the training of ophthahnological and selected health
personnel on cataract diagnosis, screening, surgery (ECCE/IOL and ICCE) and follow-
up; and management training for Central and State project managers, District Society
Members, Project Coordinators, and other project staff requiring managerial and
administrative skills. The time-table for training is described in Annex 16. The training
component was designed in consultation with key ophthalmological personnel from the
Central government, the states, private and voluntary sectors and representatives of
bilateral institutions involved in training and blindness control.
3.23        To be selected as an NPCB training institution under the project, the
institutions, including medical colleges, would need to fulfill pre-established requirements
and commit themselves to training a specified number of ophthalmologists as described
in Annex 17. Each trainee would be evaluated following completion of tae training. In
addition, the Central Government is working with the appropriate authorities to modify
the curriculum for the training of graduate students of ophthalmology in medical colleges
based on the new technical norms of the project. At negotiations, the Project States gave
assurances that govermnent ophthalmologists trained through the project would be
required to sign a bond committing them to remain with the Government for a minimum
of three years after completion of training, or reimburse the Government for the cost of
training according to established procedures.
3.24       Training of Ophthalmologists would consist primarily in developing or
upgrading ECCE skills, offei :- refresher courses in ICCE, and familiarizing the
ophthalmologists with the new technical norms of the program. It is expected that during
the life of the project, about 70% of surgeries would be carried out with ICCE technique
since most of the cataract victims are in rural areas where ECCE/IOL is not feasible.
Therefore, the training would not only expand the use of ECCE/IOL, but would
emphasize quality upgrade of ICCE surgery. The training would involve: (a) training
of trainers, i.e., faculty from medical colleges and selected ophthalmologists from the
voluntary and public sector in private and government institutions selected according to
the selection procedures shown in Annex 17; (b) training of practicing ophthalmologists



- 21 -
(from the government and selected NGOs) in ECCE/IOL and high volume ICCE,
including refresher training in ICCE; and (c) training of non-practicing government
ophthalmologists who will re-enter practice. Training for private ophthalmologists'
would be offered only to those willing to set up private practices in underserved areas
under the grants program.
3.25       Standardized training modules for each category of staff are being
developed. A curriculum for the "train the trainers" program has been developed by a
group of experts from key private and government institutions and has been discussed
with the medical colleges of the participating states. Approximately 95 medical college
faculty, 500 practicing ophthalmic surgeons, and 200 non-practicing ophthalmologists
(currently performing other duties) would be trained. An additional 500 ophthalmologists
would receive refresher courses on ICCE. The specifics for the training of each category
of ophthalmologists are detailed in Annex 18. During negotiations, GOI gave assurances
that it would (a) complete by July 31, 1994 the development of the standard curriculum
for the "train the t.4iners" program and by August 31, 1994, the curriculum for the
remaining categories of staff to IDA's satisfaction; and (b) make contractual arrangements
with the training institutions selected according to agreed procedures (Annex 17) and
approve the list of trainees for the "train the trainers" program by August 31, 1994.
3.26       Training of Allied Personnel. Training of operating theater personnel as a
team would lead to increased productivity. Ophthalmic surgeons, surgical nurses and
operating room assistants would be trained to work as a team in the management of tasks
within the surgical theater. Selected personnel would receive 12 weeks of intensive
training by ophthalmic surgeons, senior ophthalmic nursing staff and hospital
administrators (Annex 19).
3.27       Trainina of Onhthalmic Assistants and/or Health Assistants. Ophthalmic
assistants (OAs) and health assistants (HA) would be trained in groups at existing
Training Centers for Ophthalmic Assistants. OAs' training is essential for quality service
as they would be responsible for key functions in outreach, screening, diagnosis, referral
and follow-up. About 60 groups of 50 OAs and HAs would be trained per year during
the first four years of the project. Refresher workshops would be offered periodically.
3.28       Management Traiing. Different modules of management training would
be offered to members of the District Blindness Control Societies, Program Coordinators,
and other project administrators. The training would include: program management,
interpersonal skills (patient-service provider relationship), inventory management, patient
logistics, clinic operation, camp organization, utility management, and equipment
maintenance. The objective would be to promote a common management approach. An
estimated 250 district coordinators; about 25 program managers and 250 DBCS members
would receive a one-week management training during the first two years of the project
10 A survey of ophthalmologists conducted during project preparation and interviews with
several private practidoners revealed that .any private ophthalmologists were trained overseas
or learned the ECCE/IOL techniques through visiting foreign ophthalmologists.



- 22 -
and about 275 MIS personnel would be given a two-week training in management
information systems (Annex 20).
3.29       The project would finance infrastructure, medical equipment and supplies
for training centers, living and transportation expenses, training materials, and
workshops.
PROMOTING OUTREACH ACTIVITIES & PUBLIC AWARENESS (US$ 10.0
million: 7%)
3.30       Developing public awareness about the curability of cataract blindness would
help reduce misconceptions about blindness and fear of cataract surgery. Beneficiary
assessments carried out during project preparation uncovered a variety of factors
deterring potential patients from seeking surgery. These assessments also revealed that
outreach activities must focus primarily on reaching women and isolated tribal
populations as these groups are least likely to seek treatment.
3.31       The objectives of the outreach and communication strategy would be to
increase awareness in the general population about the availability and desirability of
cataract surgery; to generate demand in underserved rural populations, particularly among
women and tribal populations; to facilitate access to surgery; and to develop trust in the
service delivery system.
3.32        Outreach activities would be programmed at the district level. To minimize
transaction and financial costs for the patient and improve efficiency in service delivery
outreach would be carried at times and places consistent with the community's activities
during the different season and based on community gathering patterns such as market
days or festivities. Outreach activities and service provision would be scheduled in
sequence to ensire that the individuals identified receive adequate and timely treatment.
A "cataract identification card" with the patient's information and the schedule for nearby
camps printed in the back would be used. These have been successfully employed in a
DANIDA-assisted project to facilitate outreach. Special campaigns would be conducted
for "hard to reach" groups such as remote tribal groups. To ensure adequate outreach
for women, a number of screening and surgical camps would be targeted to women only.
3.33       Outreach activities would include: (a) outreach and screening camps
organized by NGOs and government ophthalmic teams with community participation; (b)
screening routines carried out by ophthalmic and health assistants as part of their general
duties; (c) involvement of 'satisfied customers" and "temporary outreach workers" in
outreach campaigns; (d) promotion of the program through schools by creating awareness
among teachers and students; and (e) facilitating transportation and compensation to
patients from remote areas to facilitate access to services.
3.34       Most outreach activities would rely on interpersonal communication which
has proven to be an effective strategy for behavioral change. Traditionally, communities
have participated actively in promotion of blindness control all over India and the project
would continue to capitalize on this tradition.



- 23 -
3.35       Outreach efforts would be complemented by Information, Education and
Communication (IEC) interventions. These would involve: (a) developing a recognizable
identity for the NPCB through selective media exposure on TV, radio and newspapers,
workshops and conferences, and by creating logos and messages that convey the mission
of the program. The purpose would be to create a program identity associated with
quality, reliability and access to services, and engender credibility among the public at
the national and state levels; (b) developing community based messages through
systematic gathering of "content material" meaningful to the target audience; and (c)
designing media and communication packages and strategies to address deterrents to
surgery in the different social contexts, e.g., mass media would be employed to reach
urban areas, and appropriate folk and visual media to reach rural communities. Like
outreach efforts, IEC activities would be more frequent in tribal and other remote areas,
based on prevalence.
3.36       Production of IEC materials would be managed partly at the Center based
on information and research done in selected areas of each state. Local IEC materials
would be managed by the DBCS to ensure that they respond to the characteristics of the
various communities. In tribal areas, NGOs or private organizations with experience in
tribal areas would be engaged to develop culturally appropriate messages. Messages
would be developed through focus groups and other social marketing techniques in
different communities, and materials would be produced in the languages of the target
communities. The proposed ethnographic study of blindness under operational research
would provide fiurther information for these materials. Annex 21 describes the general
framework for outreach and IEC activities.
3.37       To expand outreach and communication, the project would finance services
for communication needs assessment, social marketing activities, and testing of materials,
media services, media equipment, IEC materials, transportation expenses, workshops,
compensation to NGOs for outreach and IEC activities based on a time-distance norm,
and compensation to "community" workers.
BUILDING INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY (US$8.0 million: 6%)
3.38       This component of the project would include four main features: (a)
developing institutional capability for eye care management at the Central, State and
District levels; (b) developing collaborative mechanisms for cooperation between the
government and the private/voluntary sector; (c) introducing monitoring and feedback
mechanisms to facilitate implementation and maintain quality control; and (d) building
institutional capacity for human resources development.
3.39       Developing Institutional Capacity for NPCB Management. Organization and
management of the NPCB would be improved at the Central, State and District levels by
consolidating authority at the Center under one unit, strengthening the State Ophthalmic
Cells, decentralizing authority and granting operational and some financial autonomy to
the districts through the DBCS. The organizational structure of the NPCB is shown on
p.25 and the details of its composition and functions are described in Annex 22.



- 24 -
3.40       The National Program Management Unit at the Ministry of Health and
Family Welfare would be responsible for designing and communicating program
strategies and for the overall implementation of the program at the national level. It
would be headed by a Program/Project Manager at the level of Joint Secretary (iS). The
unit would include an Administrative Division and a Technical Division, each headed by
an Additional Director. At negotiations, GOI gave assurances that the National Program
Management Unit would be maintained over the life of the project, that designated staff
would be appointed by September 30, 1994 and the key staff would be retained in their
positions for a minimum of three years. To strengthen the linkages with the states and
advise them on project imnplementation, 8 state advisers would be hired intermittently by
the Unit to advise the states and districts on program implementation.
3.41       The program policies would be sanctioned by a National Blindness Control
Board chaired by the Union Secretary of Health. A Technical Advisory Committee
(TAC) headed by DGHS would provide technical advice to the Central Management Unit
and a Project Coordination Committee (PCC) would coordinate the various sectors
involved in NPCB.
3.42       A State Ophthalmic Cell (State Project Management Unit) headed by a State
Project Officer would oversee the implementation of the project at the state level and
would be responsible for state-wide activities such as program monitoring, training
coordination, vehicle and equipment maintenance, and periodic audit accounts. During
negotiations, the Project States gave assurances that the State P.oject Management Unit
would be maintained over the life of the project and that the key staff would be appointed
by July 31, 1994 and retained in their positions for a minimum of three years. A State
Empowered Committee chaired by the Chief Secretary would be established to facilitate
program implementation. This body would act as a link between the district and the
national units.
3.43       A major institution buildiag aspect of the project would be the partial
decentralization of the blindness program through the newly created District Blindness
Control Societies. The DBCS would have the authority and accountability for project
implementation at the district level and would be largely responsible for ensuring that the
project objectives are met. The societies would be registered under the Societies
Registration Act, 1860, and would have full powers to make financial and administrative
decisions under the program. Two hundred and four (204) DBCS have already been
registered in the Societies Act. At negotiations, the Project States provided assurances
that they would establish the remaining DBCS by July 31, 1994, enter into an
implementation agreement with each DBCS on terms satisfactory to IDA, appoint the
District Program Coordinators by July 31, 1994, and maintain the DBCS during the life
of the project. Establishment of the DBCS would be a requirement for project investment
in each district. The District Program Coordinator would be the Secretary of the Society
and would be accountable for the day to day management of the project in the district.
The District Ophthalmic Surgeon would be responsible for the technical quality of the
project. Experience from DANIDA's pilot projects have demonstrated the critical role
of the Program Coordinator in ensuring project success.



- 25 -
Organizational Structure
for the
National Progr  for Control of Blindness
IIp
I I . ~~~~~~~~~----------_____
_                               ---------r------- --- ------------
?I 184              Mon-Tech      S 
B~~u  a                  I _eI
________________ *_     ______J________
t~~~~~~f -   _ _                               - I .,m
I -   -     I~~~L--------
_II
Dba                                             DWa
I -------                r----- r    r  h . ,a
s~~~~~~wUIA - !fi
a               a sa opaX___
coa Cmaa mmh
    ..
-~~~~~qpzl b 250 oIi
I____1___                                         In aD__1__ _  mv -
a   DIwnSld-tBt    a           t   DUicrtbU~
I            I     !                            IfL  
.a         ar aPr                n         ce        c 
N  I                         I.W IL ]   !
GEas fEaIc5M
NWwa,b,uaI



- 26 -
3.44       Linkages would be strengthened through a system of communications
supported by the project. Project implementation would be facilitated by channeling most
funds and inputs directly from the Center to the Dis$rict level and by centralizing most
procurement activities at the National level. Institution building would be reinforced by
systematic management training of all project managers and coordinators. Reward
schemes for project personnel at all levels would be linked to quality performance. A
staff recognition plan is under preparation.
3.45       Developing  Collaborative Mechanisms for Cooperation between the
Government and the Private and Voluntar, Sectors. To ensure full participation of the
voluntary and private sector in the Program, a consortium of NGOs would be formed to
provide advice to the Program. In addition, representatives of NGOs (selected by the
NGOs) would be included as full members of the decision-making bodies at the Ceniter,
State and District levels. NGOs would be represented in the National Blindness Control
Board and the Project Coordination Committee (on a rotating basis), in the State
Empowered Committees and in the District Blindness Societies. In those districts where
NGOs have performed at least 50% of cataract operations, the NGO representative would
be the Vice Chairman of the Society.
3.46       Private sector ophthalmologists would be represented in the Technical
Advisory Committee and would be involved in monitoring and evaluation of technical
outcomes. Service contracts would be signed with private ophthalmologists for service
delivery in specified areas.
3.47       Introducino  Monitoring  and  Feedbackc  Mechanisms to  Facilitt
1MVLementation and Maintain Ouality Control. A Management Information System linked
to NICNET (National Informatics Network), the existing network at MOHFW, is being
developed within the framework described in Annex 23 to capture essential information
for project management and monitoring.
3.48       Quality control would also be monitored in several ways: (a) through close
supervision of service delivery, (b) through spot checks of records and surprise visits to
camps, patients and hospitals by the Program Coordinator or the District Ophthalnic
Surgeon; (c) through beneficiary assessments (Rapid Assessment methods) conducted by
independent organizations satisfactory to IDA to measure patient satisfaction, and (d)
through periodic evaluations by expert ophthalmologists to assess quality outcomes. Such
assessments would be done in every tribal district and in selected non-tribal districts,
particularly those with the most disadvantaged populations and high prevalence. Results
of such findings would be retrofitted into program implementation. Annex 24 illustrtes
the activities where quality control would be measured. At negotiations, GOI and the
Project States gave assurances that annual beneficiary assessments by independent
organizations with staff trained in rapid assessment methods would be conducted to
measure patient satisfaction and effectivenfess of program implementation.
3.49       Building Institutional Capacity for Hmann Resources Development.
Selected Medical Colleges and training centers for ophthalmological personnel would
receive technical assistance (and otier inputs described previously) to ensure that human
resources capabilities are developed to provide ECCE/IOL and comprehensive eye care



- 27 -
in the future. Managerial capacity would be developed through workshops with Program
Managers at the National, State and District levels.
3.50       Operations Research. Operations research activities would be carried out
to provide feedback to the program in the following areas: comparative analysis of
program implementation effectiveness between the medical colleges, district hospitals,
and camps; ethnographic studies of blindness among selected populations, particularly
among women, tribal and other isolated populations; effectiveness of public information
campaigns, evaluating the role of aphakic motivators and outreach programs (government
and NGOs), and assessing post-graduate residents with respect to change in training
experience and skills (Annex 25). In addition, technical assistance would be provided
to develop in-country capacity with rapid assessment methods for beneficiary assessment.
GOI has agreed that it would carry out at least one study per year beginning with the
second year of the program.
3.51       To support the implementation of this component, IDA's financing would
be used for contracual services of consultants including trainers, health personnel, and
nnplied social scientists, travel expenses, training tuition, workshops, office equipment,
staff salaries and honoraria, vehicles and operating and maintenancL costs.



- 28 -
IV. ROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Cos X 
4.1          Summary of Costs. Over a seven-year period, the total cost of the enhanced
cataract blindness activities in the seven project states, including current NPCB
expenditures, import duties and taxes, is estimated at about Rs. 5,833.6 million or
US$144.8 million equivalent. Present annual NPCB funding from the Center and the
seven states amounts to Rs. 41.4 million (US$1.27 million) and would be expected to
continue at this level during the seven-year period. Taxes and duties are estimated at Rs.
187.2 millic n or US$ 4.7 million equivalent. The incremental cost of the project (above
GOT's past financing level in the seven states) is therefore estimated to be Rs. 5,543.6
million (US$135.7 million) of which US$4.7 million equals taxes and of which IDA
would finance US$117.8 million. The costs breakdown of the proposed project is
summarized  in Tables 4.1 and 4.2  Detailed costs of the project by component,
categories of expenditure, and year are given in Annex 26.
Table 4.1 - Cost by Component
(Rumee Mlllion)        (SUS Million)    X  S Total
Foreign Base
CoMPOne                     Local  Forcitn  Total    Lol   ForTien  Tet bair -Co
StrengteningSevice Delivery  3,219.7  651.8 3,871.4    98.8  20.0  118.8  17%  84%
Developng Human Rgsourc for eye Care  108.2  54.3  162.5    3.3   1.7    5.0  33%   4%
PmotiOutreach& PublicAwaraen    246.7  79.2  325.9    7.6   2.4   10.0  24%   7%
DevelopinglnonalCapolzy      238.1  21.7  259.8    7.3   0.7    8.0  8%   6%
Toed BASEUJNCO5TS              3,812.7  807.0 4,619.7   117.0  24.8  141.7  17%  100%
Pysical Coingencies          150.1  79.5  229.6    4.6   2.4    7.0  35%   S%
Pdlo Coantinec               650.4i 333.9  984.4    -7.0   3.0    4.0  -77%  -3%
Tbdsi PROGRAM COSTS           4,613.2 1,220.4 5.833.6   114.5  30.2  144.8  21%  102%
4.2          Continencv Allowances. Costs include physical contingencies (US$7.16
million) esfimated at 10% of physical expenditures for civil works, equipment and
supplies, drugs, vehicles, IOL and spectacles, I.E.C. and contractual services, and 5%
for maintenance activities, surveys and studies and operational research.   Price
contingencies have been included at the following rates: foreign costs 2.8% from
Calendar Year (CY) 94 through CY2001; and local costs 6.5% in CY94, 6.0% in CY95,
5.5% in CY96, 5.0% in CY97 to CY2001.
4.3          Foreign  Exehange Comuonent.   The estimated  foreign exchange
component of US$30.78 million is calculated on the basis of estimated foreign exchange
proportions as follows: civil works: 15%; medical equipment: 50%; vehicles: 75%; Intra
Ocular Lenses (IOL): 75%; drugs and medical consumables: 50%; vehicle operation and
maintenance: 5%.



- 29 -
Table 4.2 - Costs by Category of Expenditure /a
(Rupee Million)                 (SUS Million)            %    % ToWal
Foreign  Base
Local   Foreign    Total      Local     Foreign  Total    Exge u    Cosa
Qnvtmni  CostS
Civil Works                         369.62    65.23   434.85    11/34        2.00    13.34    15%      9%
Equiunent& Supplies                 163.54   163.54   327.08        5.02     5.02    10.03    50%      7%
Vehicles                             28.55    85.64   114.19        0.88     2.63     3.50    75%      2%
Spectacles                          155.72             155.72       4.78              4.78      -      3%
L.O.L.s                              50.18   150.55   200.73        1.54     4.62     6.16    75%      4%
Trainig & Workshops                  74.79     -       74.79        2.29              2.29      -      2%
Medlal Suppliea for Sutgeon Tramning    53.80    53.80   107.61     1.65     1.65     3.30    50%      2%
Publicity Services                  166.87     -       166.87       5.12     -        5.12             4%
Suppornto NGOs& Private Sector    1,203.43     -    1,203.43       36.91     -       36.91      -     27%
Studies & Operatonal Researh         41.00     -       41.00        1.26     -         1.26     -      1%
Contractual Services                 78.02     -       78.02        2.39     -        2.39      *      2%
TetaO   emnCeat                      2,385.53   518.76 2,904.29       73.18    15.91    89.09    18%    63%
RwaTet Costs
DrugssSuures                        274.38   274.38   548.76        8.42     8.42    16.83    50%      12%
Civil Works Maineance                23.32     -       23.32        0.72     -        0.72      -      1%
EuipmetMaintence                     76.23     4.01    80.25        2.34     0.12     2.46    5%       2%
VehicleOpeai   & Maintenance         57.84     3.04    60.88        1.77     0.09     1.87    5%       1%
Salaries of Additional Staff        866.51     -      866.51       26.58     -       26.58      -      19%
MiscOfficeOperationlos~s            128.89     6.78   135.68        3.95     0.21     4.16    5%       3%
Tol Recent Costs                      1,427.17   288.22  1,715.38     43.78     8.84    52.62    17%    37%
Tobtl BASELNE COSTS                   3,812.70   806.98 4,619.68     116.95    24.75   141.71    17%    100%
Physical Contingencies              150.08    79.49   229.57        4.60     2.44     7.04    35%      5%
Price ContingenciV.                 650.43   333.92   984.35       -7.01     3.04    -3.97   -77%    -3%
TtaIPROGRAMCOSTS                     4,613.21  1,220.39 5,833.60     114.54    30.23   144.78    21%    102%
/a Figures shown are the costs of the Enhanced NPCB in the seven states plus tihe
national program costs and are used as the basis for calculating the incremental
project cost of US$ 135.7 million. See also table 4.3 for explanation of this
calculation.
B- Ejodg  Pla
4.4              The project would be centrally sponsored. The proposed IDA Credit of
US$117.8 million equivalent would cover 89.7% of the incremental net cost of the
program, above the level of GOI's past financing of the National Program for the Control
of Blindness. This is shown in Table 4.3 on p.29. This represents 100% of the
estimated foreign exchange component (US$30.2) and 80% of local cost net of taxes
(US$109.8). A summary of this breakdown is shown in Annex 26, p.2. IDA's share of
the total cost of the enhanced NPCB program amounts to 81.4% and the Govermment of
India would finance the remaining 18.6% of the total program cost or US$27.0 million
equivalent. This would include all taxes, estimated at US$4.7 million equivalent.



- 30 -
Table 4.3 - NPCB Expenditures in the 7 Project States
EXINSNG GOI BLINDNESS
PREVENION PROGRAM FUDNG
tDA ASSISED_
ENMANCED                         SEVE'f
PROGRAM            ANNUAL        YEAR
(RJ. Milon)       PLAN COSTS     COST
Invoimengt Cost  2,904.3
Recurrent Cowt   1,715.4             41.4        290.0
Physiaol Contneis     229.6
Price Continwies    984.4
TOTAL                      Rs.   S,S33                      RL    2S0.0
IU   144.8 |                  US$    9.1
I<-lamea ,G 601 
IneiuW RoPnent of Enriced Progan| Rs. S'3. |
Itemeni Rfquenient (USS Million Equivalent )  $135.7
eurenn Reqinent Net of Tae               $131.3
PrqiW IDA Ctedit                         $117.h
IDA Casdlt    o P Pad jeFmt Iuue             89.7nt
C. S     abilit
4.5          Several measures have been taken to ensure managerial, technical and
financial sustainability.
4.6          Project Design.  The project has been designed to promote higher
productivity and optimal utilization of existing capacity; upgrade the skills of eye care
personnel for long term purposes; reduce the risk of recurrent costs by limiting the
mmibers of costly staff and using contractual appointment in some cases; carry out a
selective expansion of coverage; facilitate and encourage the involvement of the non-
govermnent sector; and introduce cost recovery schemes. The main factors that would
facilitate sustainability are discussed below.
4.7          Managerial Sustainability. This would be achieved by inc:reasing the role
of the private and voluntary sector in a systematic way, and by decentralizing
implementation responsibility to the district level while maintaining appropriate
monitoring mechanisms at the Center and the State levels.
4.8          It is expected that in the long term, the majority of surgeries would be
performed by NGOs and private practitioners either independently or in cooperation with
the government. While during the project period, the average workload (aggregated for
the seven states) is distributed evenly between the public and the non-government sector
(50%); the chart on p.31 shows the shift that is expected to take place towards the last
years of the project.



- 31 -
Cataract Surgeries Each Year -
by Government & Non-Govermment Providers
2,500,000     [lNon-Govecnment
lIN joint Effont
2,000,000
lI0 Government
14000,000
S1,00000
0
FY9M      FY96       FY97      FY98       FY9        YO        FY20I
4.9        The availability of infrastructure and equipment in rural areas would
facilitate NGO and private sector involvement, which has been limited largely to urban
and surrounding areas mostly for lack of coordination, mobility and infrastructure. There
has been receptivity on the part of some of the state governments, to the idea of turning
over the management of certain facilities to the private or NGO sectors towards the end
of the project. This would be explored during the biennial technical and operational
reviews.
4.10       The decentralization of project implementation to the District level and the
operational flexibility granted to the DBCS would greatly facilitate program sustain2biiity.
DBCS would be able to involve NGOs, communuities and volunteers to carry out the
program at a reduced cost to the government. In several districts, the government has
been successful in obtaining support from industries and private citizens. With the
introduction of better coordination mechanisms, these initiatives should be easier to
implement.
4.11       Technical Sustainability.  The project would strengthen the technical
capabilities of a large number of eye care practitioners at all levels promoting a long-tenn
capacity building to meet India's needs for eye care. In addition, the project is expected
to have a major impact on the curriculum of ophthalmic departments of medical colleges
thus producing a significant technological shift.
4.12       Financial Sustainabilitv. Several measures would be taken to minimize the
financial burden on GOI and the states after project completion. These include:
introducing cost recovery schemes, keeping recurrent costs to the mininmu, introduing



- 32 -
mechanisms for reallocation of expenditures in ophthalmology, and systematically taking
advantage of community-based support through NGOs and private donors.
4.13       The states have agreed to introduce several modalities for cost recovery such
as creating paid wards in medical colleges to cross-subsidize free wards; charging for
IOLs to about 60% of the patients based on agreed criteria; introciucing charges for
specialized tests in other areas of ophthalmology; and promoting cost recovery among
NGOs to reduce government subsidies. These mechanisms would be introduced
gradually and will be assessed during the first project review. It is expected that by
raising the quality of service delivery and creating awareness, the project would generate
confidence and patients will be willing to pay for surgery. Moreover, the availability of
ECCE/IOL would allow for treatment of unilateral cases among economically productive
people who would be able to pay. Operations research would be conducted on the
different cost recovery models.
4.14       Upon project completion, the intensive phase needed to address the backlog,
build institutional capacity and expand the role of the non-governnent sector in cataract
treatment would be concluded, and the NPCB would enter a sustainable maintenance
phase in the seven states. At that time, the states would be expected to absorb all
recurrent costs; however, the anticipated financial burden on the health state budgets
would be within their financial capabilities.
4.15       The recurrent costs for the states of their blindness programs at the end of
the project would average 1.2% of their current health budgets. With the exception of
Orissa, whose estimated recurrent costs constitute 3%, the remaining states would have
recurrent costs of 2% or less. This is the most liberal estimate as it does not take into
account any revenues from cost recovery or increased non-subsidized voluntary sector
participation. These potential revenues are excluded from the calculations because at this
time, there is no mechanism to ensure that costs recovered through the NPCB would be
reinvested in the program, and there is insufficient experience to know how much the
non-govermnent sector would absorb in terms of costs.
4.16       The relatively small size of the recurrent costs is also related to the fact that
the expenditures incurred by the states on cataract activities, based on NPCB allocations,
constitute a small proportion of the total amounts spent under the budget category of
"ophthalmology." Total state ophthalmic expenditures range between 5 to 10 times the
NPCB-based expenditures, with a substantive proportion of the money going to tertiary
care, highly specialized training and expansion of physical infrastructure.
4.17       Furthermore, current stat-, expenditures for ophthalmology in the seven
states show that an average of 76% of the total is under the non-plan budget which
provides sufficient flexibility for resource reallocation. With further rationalization of
expenditures in ophthalmic care, the recurrent costs needed to sustain cataract services
would be virtually inconsequential. In the present situation of adjustment, agencies are
beginning -to move towards greater efficiency and show greater receptivity to shifting
expenditure priorities if needed. During negotiations. the Project States provided
assurances that they would develop criteria for IOL and other ophthalmic related charges
by December 31, 1994 and introduce all models of cost recovery schemes by December
31, 1995.



- 33 -
4.18       Financial sustainability will be further facilitated by a likely reduction in the
price of consumables such as IOLs which may go down as India purchases large
quantities and improves its own manufacturing. Indian-made IOLs are about a third of
the price of imported ones. As ECCE/IOL becomes more widely available to treat
unilateral cases, eventual blindness would be prevented, thus reducing blindness
prevalence and the associated costs.
4.19       Finally, the seven project states advised IDA of their intention to absorb all
recurrent costs after project completion.  In order to achieve this, they would
progressively phase recurrent costs for non-salary consumables and new salaries into the
state's budgets during the project period.
D. Cost Effectiveness
4.20       The 1993 WDR has identified cataract treatment as one of the first priorities
for clinical services because of its favorable cost effectiveness. It is estimated that
cataract removal can save a Disability Adjusted Life Year for less than $40. Compared
with 40 other interventions, cataract surgery is among the 15 most cost-effective overall,
and the most cost-effective clinical intervention to reduce the disease burden among the
elderly. In addition, studies done in India (Drummond 1986; and Javitt, 1991) indicate
that the returns in terms of increased economic productivity following cataract surgery
is several times the cost of surgery in the first year.
4.21       The following profile of the economic and social benefits of the proposed
project was the result of a survey conducted on three of the seven project states. The
survey shows that 24% of the cataract blind persons surveyed were in the 50-60 year
cohort and another 16% in the 30-50 year group. Given that the average life expectancy
in India is 60 years, about 40% of those receiving surgery were in their productive years.
Moreover, about 40% of those surveyed reported experiencing total or some loss of
income due to their condition (19% and 21% respectively). The average loss of income
reported was between 35-60% of earning potential.
4.22       Extrapolating on the basis of sample characteristics for the entire blind
population of the seven states, it is possible to obtain an estimate of the expected loss of
income without the project. The following assumptions are made to arrive at a rough
estimate: (a) 40% of the 7.0 million cataract blind persons in the seven states are still
in their productive years of life; (b) 30% of these will not receive surgery without the
project; (c) the average annual income is Rs. 4,000 (Rs. 15 a day for 260 days); (d) the
average loss of income for that 30% who lose total or partial income is 45%; and (e)
average productive years of life for those who are in their productive years is 6 years.
Based on these assumptions, it is estimated that Rs. 9.0 billion (US$276 million) in wage
income would be lost without the project, and the aggregate average annual wage loss to
all these untreated individuals would be roughly US$46 million.
4.23       Ir; addition, the project would provide indirect benefits: It would reduce the
dependency of cataract blind persons on their care-givers enabling the family members
to pursue other activities. Of the 140 cataract patients surveyed, about 60 people (42%)
reported complete or partial dependency on a family member prior to surgery. Although



- 34 -
this dependency was not entirely due to blindness, almost three-fifths of those who had
undergone surgery, reported no dependency on their families after they were treated,
since they could now take care of themselves. Restored vision, in this particular survey
sample meant not only improvement in the earning ability of the cataract blind person,
but also release, on the part of the family members, from the strain on their time and
workload in caring for the blind person.
4.24       In addition, indirect benefits can also be attributed to the reduction of
blindness-related injuries which impose an additional burden in the health system. Based
on discussions with medical practitioners in the field, a totally blind person is likely to
suffer 2 to 5 additional injuries in his/her life compared to a non-blind person. The
estimated average hospital stay per injury is 3 days. According to a study by the
National Council of Applied Economics Research (NCAER), the treatment cost per injury
is about US$8.00 and the cost of a one-day hospital stay is between US$25 and US$30.
Assuming that: (a) 20% of the blind in the seven states seek hospitalization for one injury
in their life time; and (b) they remain in the hospital for two days at US$25 per day
including treatment. The savings to the health system for GOI and the seven states could
reach US$81 million.
4.25       In summary, the proposed project would reduce, in a cost-effective way,
the burden of cataract blindness and it would restore the individual's independence and
social standing; it would result in considerable public savings through reduced health care
costs; it would greatly benefit the cataract patients of economic productive age in terms
of restored income; and it would alleviate the workload and time requirements imposed
on the care-givers of the blind.
E.   I nt aUin
4.26       Project implementation would be coordinated by the Office of the National
Program Manager at MOHFW Delhi through the existing eye care health structure at the
state level, and by the District Blindness Control Society at the district level, as described
in paras. 3.40 - 3.44. Adjunct bodies such as the National Blindness Control Board, the
Program Coordination Committee, the Technical Advisory Committee and the State
Empowered Committees would provide policy guidance and facilitate project
implementation. The implementation time-table is detailed in Annex 27.
4.27       Role of the Union Government.
(a) The National Blindness Control Board chaired by the Union Health
Secretary would act as an apex body and would be responsible for policy
formulation, approval of annual implementation plans, approval of budgets
and allocation of resources, coordination with other GOI departments, and
evaluation of program objectives and achievements.



- 35 -
(b)  The National Program Manager's Office" (see paras. 3.40 and 3.41)
would coordinate the program with the states, ensure flow of funds to the
states and District Societies, and oversee the implementation of technical
and operational policies and procedures. It would procure and distribute
vehicles and equipment, and review media services and program evaluation
proposals.  It would also manage the human resources development
component of the project in coordination with the states (training and staff
performance and rewards) and would oversee program progress and
evaluation activities. MOHFW would ensure delivery to the states of the
goods procured and would bear the entire program costs borne by the
states. It would conduct orientation workshops for new District Societies,
hold periodic meetings with state ophthalmic and other health authorities
and with Program Coordinators as part of its role in institutional
development.
(c)   The Project Coordination Committee would consist of representatives, from
national NGOs, multilateral and bilateral donors involved in blindness
control (e.g., WHO, DANIDA), an IDA representative and senior project
managers. The Committee's main purpose would be to coordinate the
efforts of the different institutions involved in blindness control to ensure
a cohesive program strategy and avoid redundancies
(d)  The Technical Advisory Committee. In addition to the Senior MOHFW
and state officials involved in health, the committee would include
renowned Indian Ophthalmologists and project advisors. The main role of
the committee would be to advise on issues related to the upgrading of
ophthalmic technology and training of ophthalmic personnel.
4.28       At negotiations, GOI agreed to maintain, in conjunction with the NPCB
Management Unit, the Project Coordination Committee and the Technical Advisory
Committee on terms agreeable to IDA.
4.29       Role of the State Government
(a)   The State Ophthalmic Cell comprised of a Project Manager at the Director
or Joint Director level and two other officials with experience in public
health or ophthalmology, and public administration, would be responsible
for monitoring the program at the state level, consolidating and reviewing
performance and evajuation reports, and ensuring efficiency and quality
control. It would coordinate training programs for ophthalmologists,
Program Coordinators and DBCS members. It would enter into an
implementation agreement with each DBCS on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. The State Cell would also ensure proper allocation of
resources, where necessary, maintenance of vehicles and equipment and
would identify, along with the DBCS, the voluntary agencies and private
f Ibis is the only pernanent organiaional stmcture at the Center.



- 36 -
hospitals to participate in the project. It would conduct periodic audit of
accounts and submit reports to the state review committee.
(b)   The State Empowered Committees would serve as a link between district
and national units and would expedite the release of funds and decision
making at the state level. The Chief. Secretary would be the Chairman of
the Committee. Other members would include the Secretaries of Planning
and Finance, Welfare, Education, and Local Bodies, the Director of Health
Services, two NGO Representatives, two ophthalmologists, and a Deputy
Director (statistics). The Project Manager of the Ophthalmic Cell would
be the Member-Secretary. The Committee would meet every quarter to
review operational plans, assess strengths and weaknesses of each district
unit, coordinate interdepartmental activities, monitor progress, and advise
district units on resource utilization and quality measures.
4.30       Role of the District Blindness Control Societv (DBCS). As noted in porm
3.43, District Blindness Control Societies registered under the Societies Registration Act
are being established in the participating states to decentralize project implementation.
The society would be chaired by the District Collector. The Program Coordinator,
responsible for the program's day-to-day activities would act as the Secretary. Other
members would include: the District Ophthalmic Surgeon, a community representative,
the Chief Medical Officer, NGO representatives, and other government officers to
facilitate coordination with other departments and entities. The DBCS coordinator would
be appointed strictly on a contractual basis or through reassignment of qualified staff.
4.31       The main functions of the Society would be to manage, largely through the
Program Coordinator, the implementation of the program at the district level. The DBCS
would allocate resources according to agreed norms, employ staff and consulting
services, set up rules and regulations for day-to-day project execution, prepare
operational plans, engage voluntary and private practitioners based on pre-approved
guidelines, oversee prevalence surveys, ensure compliance of NPCB norms including
taining, outreach, IEC campaigns; and monitor project implementation at the district
level.
4.32       Participation in Project Preparation. Project preparation has been fully
participatory with the involvement of the states, NGOs and private ophthalmologists,
other agencies involved in blindness control, and past and potential beneficiaries. During
several meetings and workshops, the states and NGOs were able to express their needs
which were taken into account in the project design. The project's policies, technical
guidelines, and administrative procedures were developed in conjunction with the
partdipating states, NGOs and the ophthalmic conmmnity through a series of workshops
financed with Japan Grant Facility funds. Annex 28 shows the methods of participation
used and expected at the different stages of the project. The Ministry of Health and
Family Welfare assembled a project preparation team led by the Joint Secretary for
Health Services with the support of the Deputy Director General (DGHS), a Deputy
Secretary and two public health consultants. The team has worked closely with the state
officials and NGO representatives.



- 37 -
4.33       Status of Preparation. Preparation plans are well advanced. Implementation
activities have started in all seven states with the establishment of 204 DBCS and direct
transfer of funds from ,he Center to 100 societies.
4.34       Technical and training workshops were conducted with the technical advice
from the National Eye Institute of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). WHO and
DANIDA provided technical assistance in the preparation of the Center's project proposal
based on their extensive experience with Blindness Control in India. In addition, a
review of the NPCB with state program officers was held on March 5, 1993 where
agreements were reached on the changes to be introduced by the project. A workshop
on the "Efficient Functioning of DBCS" for 50 District Collectors was held on March 12,
1993. A meeting of the seven states' Health Secretaries with the Union Health Secretary
took place on October 8th to review the status of preparation.
4.35       Japan Grant funds were also used for beneficiary assessments, health
facilities surveys and a survey of ophthalmologists to determinie availability of skills.
Terms of Reference for evaluating existing IEC materials, and "content analysis" for
future health education materials have been completed.
4.36       Pr.paration has also been completed for technical norms, organizational
structures and functions, training requirements, number of staff to be trained and other
training-related items including a list of institutions to provide training; norms for
different service delivery models and strategies; lists of equipment and supplies and
technical specifications for most equipment; designs for operating theaters and wards;
position descriptions, recruitment and redeployment plans; equipment and vehicle
maintenance plans; partial list of NGOs and private hospitals participating in the
program; norms for engagement of NGOs and private surgeons; and a plan of action for
reaching tribal and isolated populations.
4.37       On December 8, 1993, the Expenditure Finance Committee (EFC) of the
Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) approved the necessary funds (Rs. 5,543.6) for
the seven-year project as an additionality to current allocations to the NPCB. It also
endorsed the creation of the core positions for the Project Management Unit at the
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The remaining positions for the Project
Management Office would be redeployed within the Ministry.
F. Monitoring
4.38       Program Monitoring. Measurable indicators for quality control, clinical
outcomes, and operational effectiveness have been agreed with the Government.
Epidemiological indicators would be agreed once the epidemiological baseline data have
been completed at the district level. The essential monitoring benchmarks described in
Annex 29 include rates of F CCE/IOL use in the govermnent and NGO sector, rate of
case detection and diagnosis, rate of cases treated, unilateral cases treated with
ECCE/IOL, rate of patient satisfaction by treatment type, complication rates, worldoad
distribution between the government and NGO) sector, and utilization of facilities in tribal
and remote areas. Annex 30 describes the data collection methods and measurable
inputs.



- 38 -
4.39       Project monitoring at the national level would be done through a review of
performance information collected from the DBCS, and State Ophthalmic Cells, regular
supervisory visits and spot checks by NPCB state consultants, annual beneficiary
assessment to determine patient satisfaction, and annual evaluations. Evaluations would
be conducted by independent management organizations and technical experts to assess
quality of service delivery and management systems, and conduct resource analysis in
clusters of districts at a time. A total of four epidemiological surveys, including baseline
and endline surveys would be conducted to determine prevalence and performance
achievements and outcomes.
4.40       At the state level, monitoring would include monthly meetings with district
program coordinators followed by immediate feedback to the service providers. Program
coordinators and District Ophthalmic surgeons would supervise district activities
according to pre-established schedules and indicators.
4.41       The progran would fnance annual review workshops with State and District
project officers. Operational research findings would help evaluate and improve program
activities. At negotiations, GOI and the Project States gave assurances that they would
(a) follow the agreed monitoring and evaluation procedures described above; (b) review
with IDA, by April 30 of each project year, the progress of project implementation
during the previous 12 months; and (c) prepare and annual work plan for the following
year based on the results of the review.
4.42       Operational and technical reviews would be carried out every two years to
assess project implementation and make the necessa, y a(ijustments. WHO, the NIH and
principal donor agencies would be invited to participate in reviewing strategic,
operational and technical aspects of the progra- . GOI and IDA would also review
managerial and financial aspects of the progranr acluding progress on cost recovery and
mobilization of non-budgetary resources. An evaluation protocol would be developed six
months prior to the reviews. During negotiations, GOI and the Project States gave
assurances that it would review with IDA every two years the operational and technical
aspects of the project including progress on cost recovery mechanisms and would
thereafter take these reviews into account during further implementation of the project.
4.43       IDA Supervision Plan. In addition to the standard supervision task, the
main strategy for field supervision would be to utilize rapid assessment techniques
(structured interviews, focus groups and participant observation) with different groups
of program participants (state, district, health workers, beneficiaries, NGOs) to assess the
performance of the program. Emphasis would be given on service delivery for tribal
districts. IDA supervision teams would collaborate with WHO, DANIDA and resident
technical experts, and would liaise with major NPCB participants, who would be invited
to participate in the biennial reviews. IDA would also continue to call on senior
professional experts to assist it in project supervision. The World Bank Resident Mission
would participate in (a) liaising with the Government and providing operational support;
and (b) advising on procurement, disbursements and auditing matters and follow-up. The
planned schedule and skills required for project supervision are listed in Annex 31.



- 39 -
G. Disbunrements
4.44       Disbursement Percentages. The disbursement plan has taken into account
the fact that purchases will be made to support the entire cataract blindness activities in
the seven states, including those that would have been funded by GOI in any case.
Accordingly, disbursement percentages have been set at levels necessary to insure that
the IDA credit provides funds amounting to 90% of the incremental cost only. Thus, the
IDA Credit would be disbursed against 100% of forepgn CIF and local ex-factory costs
and 80% of other local costs (net of taxes) of equipment and supplies, equipment
maintenance, vehicles, drugs and sutures, spectacles and IOLs; 80% of civil works; 75%
of support to NGOs and private sector, vehicle operation and maintenance, publicity
services, miscellaneous office expenses; 80% of training and contractual services;and
salaries of additional staff on a declining basis at 90% for the first three years of the
project, 75% for the fourth and fifth years and 60% for the sixth and seventh years.
4.45       Disbursement Profile. The proposed credit would be disbursed over seven
years, closely approximating the standard profile of IDA-assisted population, health and
nutrition projects in India. The maxinum divergence from the standard profiles amounts
to 10% above normal levels in years 4 and 5 of the project as the initial training phases
are completed and substantial quantities of medical consumables are positioned to support
the surgeons who will be doing high volume surgery. The IDA-assisted interventions are
expected to be completed on June 30, 2001, and the Credit closed on December 21,
2001. Annex 32 shows forecasts of expenditures and disbursements.
4.46       Reauired Documentation. Disbursements for contractual services, training,
vehicle operation and maintenance, miscellaneous office expenses, salaries of additional
staff, publicity services and goods under contracts valued less than US$100,000
equivalent would be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs). Documentation in
support of SOEs would be retained by the states and the DBCS for expenditures incurred
by the states and by the Union MOHFW for expenditures incurred by the Center. This
documentation would be subject to annual audit and made available for review by IDA
supervision missions. All other disbursements would be made against fully documented
withdrawal applications.
4.47       Special Account. In order to accelerate disbursements and to provide for
direct payment of eligible expenditures, a Special Account would be maintained in the
Reserve Bank of India with an authorized allocation of US$5.0 million, equivalent to four
months of estimated disbursements.
4.48       Flow of Funds. The proposed flow of funds is described in Annex 33. The
direct disbursement of funds to the Societies for operating expenses has been tested and
works. Funds for salaries, civil works and selected medical materials would be disbursed
to the states. GOI would monitor closely the use of funds by the states. No other funds
would be disbursed as GOI would be responsible for procurement of most equipment and
materials.
4.49       Retroactive Financing of up to US$5.0 million equivalent, or 4% of the
proposed credit, would be provided to cover eligible expenditures incurred after March



- 40 -
1, 1993 for several purposes found appropriate, e.g. to provide orientation for new
district societies, begin strengthening training institutions, develop training and IEC
materials and initiate civil works. Procurement arrangements, as well as the purposes
for which the items would be used, were reviewed and found appropriate.
H. PIrocurement
4.50       Procurement arrangements are shown in Table 4.4 which summarizes the
program elements and their estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement.
Procurement would be carried out certrally for the majority of the goods required for the
project, but smaller purchases would also be carried out in the 7 states and 240 districts
involved in the project activity. Major contracts for medical equipment (US$10.2
million), suture material and bulk medicines with long-shelf life ($17.6 million), intra-
ocular lens (US$6.5 million), and vehicles (US$4.0 million) would be procured through
a Procurement Agency'2 using ICB procedures. Because of the dispersed nature o;
project activity throughout the 240 districts, provision is also made for the purchases of
medical consumables and supportive drugs with short-shelf life using existing LCB
procedures acceptable to IDA at the district levels in packages valued below US$10,000
each up to the following aggregate amounts over the seven-year project period: drugs and
sutures (US$4.4 million), equipment and miscellaneous supplies (US$2.5 million),
intraocular lens (US$1.6 million). ICB and LCB bidding documents, including technical
specifications, were reviewed and approved prior to negotiations.
4.51       Spectacles (US$5.3 million) would be purchased using existing LCB
procedures acceptable to IDA resulting in service contracts arrangements with selected
optometrists in each of the 240 districts involved in the project.
4.52       Publicity services (US$0.7 million) for mass media would be procured by
GOI and the States directly from the Ministry of Information's radio and television
stations. The rates that would be used would not exceed the standard rate of charges to
other advertisers. Because of the dispersed nature of project activity throughout the 240
districts, provision is also made for folk media and community awareness and orientation
camps to be procured by the District Blindness Societies through direct contracting from
local artists.  Similarly, advertising through cinema slides slots, billboards and
newspapers would be procured through direct contracting at existing commercial rates.
(Combined total of direct contracting for publicity services by the 240 Societies is
estimated to be US$4.9 million over the 7 year project life).
4.53       Civil works (US$15.4 million) will be procured at the state levels using
LCB procedures acceptable to IDA, except for small works where use of Force Account
is considered more appropriate (estimated to total US$3.8 million in the 240 districts).
4.54       Payments to NGOs for service delivery, as well as outreach and IEC
activities, would be procured by the District Blindness Societies under agreements with
designated NGOs selected for their suitability to perform such services. Provision has
12 Procurement would be carried out by DGS&D or another agency approved by IDA.



-41 -
Table 4.4 - Procurement Arrangements
(Total Costs in US$ Million)
Procurement Method
lneraaUoni         Loca
Conpebtiie     Competve
EBdding        Bidding       Other    N.B.F.    Tot
DrnguSutures                          17,64           4.41           -         -        22.05
(IS.88)         (3.97)                           (19.85)
Equipment & Supplbs                   10.18           2.54           -         -        12.72
(9.16)         (2.29)                           (11.45)
LOXLs                                  6.49            1.62          -         -        8.11
(S.84)         (1.46)                            (7.30)
Vehcets                                4.05             -            -         -        4.05
(3.64)                                           (3.64)
Spectacles                              -              5.31          -         -        5.31
(4.78)                           (4.78)
civi Works                              -             II.S2         3.84       -        15.36
(9.22)      (3.07)               (12.29)
Vebhce Operaton & Malnenmce             -               -           1.99       -        1.99
(1.50)              (1.50)
Muc Offlces Expna                       -               -           4.18       -        4.18
(3.14)             (3.14)
Surgica Servies by NGOs & Prlvae Sectr                  -          29.38       -        29.63
22.04               22.04
EXqupnen albdntsnce                     -               -           2.65       -        2.65
(2.38)              (2.38)
Pbicity Servkice                                        -           5.61       -        S.61
(4.20)              (4.20)
CoulractualServles                      -               -           2.64       -        2.64
(2.11)              (2.11)
Traihnng Wedkshqp Support               -               -           2.48       -        1.48
(1.98)              (1.98)
Salaris od Additikoa Staff                              -          26.67       -        26.67
(20.07)             (20.07)
Studks & Operationales earb                             -           1.32       -        1.32
(1.06)              (1.06)
ToWl                                    38.36           25.41        80.76      0.25     144.78
(34.52)        (21.71)      (61.54)             (117.78)
Note: Figues in pandlesis are the resectve amoutts fimneed by IDA



- 42 -
been made for payment to NGOs and private surgeon based on the following rate
schedule per surgery: (a) payment of Rs. 250 per surgery if no inputs are provided by
the government (except for the use of government infrastructure); Rs. 300 per surgery
for services provided in remote areas; and Rs. 175, if government inputs are involved.
In all cases, Rs. 150 must be used for consumables. NGOs will also receive payment
for outreach activities, and patient screening and transportation based on specified
"accessibility norms" as agreed with each state.
4.55       For comparing foreign and local bids in ICB, qualifying domestic suppliers
would be allowed a margin of preference equal to the existing rate of customs duty
applicable to competing imports or 15% of CIF price, whichever is lower. Items
procured under ICB procedures, as well as the first three LCB contracts in each state
would be subject to IDA's prior review.
4.56       All items procured under ICB procedures, all civil works contracts valued
at US$200,000 and above, as well as the first four LCB contracts for equipment, medical
supplies, drugs, spectacles, etc., would be subject to IDA's prior review. Approximately
50% of the value of contracts covered by the IDA credit would be thus subject to prior
review.
I. Aceoungt nd Auditnf
4.57       Expenditures incurred by the Center and by each participating state would
be subject to the normal GOI and the states' accounting and auditing procedures, with the
added requirement that MOH would maintain a separate account for the IDA-assisted
Program. At the Center, State, and District levels, a record of program transactions
would be mintaied with appropriate supporting documentation for the transactions. A
consolidated audit report would be undertaken by the Center from standard state audits.
In addition, annual auditing by an independent charter accountant would be conducted at
the DBCS level. At negotiations GOI and the States gave assurances that the pronosed
auditing procedures would be followed.
V.  _s and Risks
A. Beefits
5.1        Reducing the Backlog of Cataract Blindness. The project would allow the
seven states to eliminate most of the cataract blindness backlog which imposes a heavy
social and economic burden on the country's poor and make considerable progress in
India's goal to reduce blindness prevalence from 1.3% to 0.3% by the year 2000. With
the project inputs, more than 11 million people will undergo cataract surgery.
5.2        Develonin& lr -eous Capacitv. The project would prepare India for the
increasing demands of an aging population by developing indigenous eye care capacity
with modern technology; creating an enabling environment for cooperation with the
voluntary and private sector which may serve as a model for other health programs; and
establishing the necessary human and physical infrastructure for long-term,
comprehensive eye care.



- 43 -
5.3        Improving the Oualitv of Life and Reducing Costs. On the economic,
social, and individual level the project would reduce the burden of the blind on family
members, improve the quality of life and social standing of the individual. The treatment
of unilateral cases with IOL would allow for early intervention among the economically
productive individuals. This would help prevent increases in blindness prevalence and
avoid employment and wage loss. It is estimated that 2.4 million Disability Adjusted
Life Years (DALYs) could be saved annually in India with an effective cataract
intervention program.
5.4        Reachina the Most Disadvantaged Groups. The project would reach the
poorest areas of the country where prevalence is highest and it would focus on the most
vulnerable groups such as women, scheduled castes and scheduled tribes.
5.5        Improving Surgical Outcomes. The project investments would help India
move into the twenty-first century with the appropriate technology and quality standards
to provide high quality eye care for the majority of the population.
5.6        Use of Facilities for Other Health Care Needs. Given the intermnittent nature
of service delivery for cataract treatment in rural areas, an indirect benefit of the project
would be the availability of infrastructure from this investment for use for other medical
care (e.g., permanent camp sites at CHCs).
5.7        Value Added of the Project. The chart on p.13 shows the significant
difference the project would make in taking care of the existing cataract backlog.
Without the project, the seven states would be able to perform only about half of the
number of surgeries required and without significant qualitative improvements. A
successful reduction in the number of blind cases requires major qualitative changes in
technology, skills and standards of care to ensure sight restoration, not just cataract
etraction. This would be virtually unattainable without an intervention of the magnitude
and approach like the one proposed in the project. In addition, the project vould help
rationalize the distribution of resources in a way that would be consistent with the public
health needs for eye care in India.
5.8        Most project inputs would complement existing capacity which is limited
largely to extensive infrastructure and manpower. The project would provide mostly
non-salary inputs which would make a major difference in quality and availability of
services and capacity building. These would inciude training, equipment, materials,
supplies, vehicles and mainenance.
5.9         0rgxm Obieyive Categories. Poverty Aspects. As indicated above, the
project would reach the poorest areas of the country. Sight restoration is accessible
mostly to urban middle and upper classes; however, the poor have limited or no access
to eye care and will continue to be marginalized without the systematic and intensive
efforts proposed by the project. WID Aspects. Over 50% of the beneficiaries are
expected to be women as the prevalence among them is higher than among men.
Furthermore, care givers of the blind are mostly girls who would be freed from such
burden. Indigenous Populations. As noted earlier (Para. 3.20) beneficiary assessments
showed higher prevalence of cataracts among tribal than non-trbal populations. Patient
satisfaction, access to facilities and spectacles were also lower among tribal groups. The



- 44 -
project would expand and intensify coverage of all tribal areas and those areas isolated
by water barriers. It would facilitate transportation and financial support to them through
the DBCS. Every component of the project has been designed taking into account tribal
and remote area populations. Private Sector aspects. About 50% of the cataract
workload would be carried out through NGOs and the private sector through direct or
indirect support from the project, and private practitioners would be engaged through
service contracts to provide services in rural areas.
B. Risks
5.10       The project would entail several risks. First, the risk that entrenched
practices would delay the transition to the new approach. This would be addressed by an
upfront endorsement by the project states of the new policies, with clearly phased
implementation. A state by state implementation plan is being developed identifying the
location and timing of investments and processes based on established criteria. In
addition, the progress made during preparation and the participatory nature of the process
have laid the ground for a steady and orderly transition.
5.11       Second, the risk that the more powerful stakeholders may either obstruct
implementation or exercise pressure for favorable treatment which would threaten the
main objectives and design of the project. Although this is one of the most difficult risks
to pre-empt, the checks and balances introduced in the project design would help monitor
the role of the different stakeholders. Furthermore, the Ministry of Health has conducted
a series of workshops and meetings with the different stakeholders to promote and seek
support for the changes being introduced and listen to their recommendations to guarantee
project success.
5.12       Third, the risk that the logistical requirements of the project which demand
strong managerial capabilities, clear lines of authority and accountability may not be met
since these are often weak in India. This would be addressed by: (a) a well defined
organizational structure and a common understanding among program managers at all
levels of the objectives, policies and procedures of the program; (b) timely appointments
of Program Coordinators with the necessary management training; and (c) a checks-and-
balances system to be used throughout the process (e.g., involving the NGOs and the
private sector, conducting beneficiary assessments by outside organizations, linking
success in quality outcomes with performance rewards and resource allocation and having
a grievance committee).
5.13       Fourth, the risk that attention would focus too heavily on tertiary and
secondary level facilities because of the emphasis on ECCE/IOL training, at the expense
of the peripheral areas. This would be addressed by strengthening service delivery and
enforcing quality outcomes in the rural and remote areas as a first line of action, and
tying allocation of resources to performance. Emphasis would be given to operations
research and monitoring for patient satisfaction in rural areas and urban slums.
5.14       Fifth, the risk that the increas.ing interest in ECCE/IOL may reduce the
availability of ophthalmologists capable and willino to continue doing ICCE in the remote
camp areas. As a preventive measure, training would include both ECCE and ICCE



- 45 -
techniques, selection for ECCE training would be linked to performance with ICCE, and
staff recognition schemes would emphasize work in rural and difficult areas.
5.15       Sixth, the possibility of poor visual outcomes expected under any type of
surgical intervention for a small percentage of all patients treated, even under the most
rigorous standards of care as well as injury due to negligence. This risk would be
addressed by introducing the practices of "full disclosure" and "informed consent" as well
as through possible remedies provided by the grievance committee.
5.16       Seventh, the usual risks of poor implementation of project investments based
on prior experience with the Borrower and given the diversity among the seven states in
terms of the administrative approaches, quality of services and NGO participation. These
are being addressed by careful preparation of the project with the participating states, a
plan of regular supervision activities with the strategies described earlier, and technical
and operational reviews every two years, instead of single mid-term review.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHEED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1        During negotiations the following assurances were given either jointly or
separately by GOI and the seven project states:
6.2        Joint Assurances. The Government of India and the Project States provided
assurances that they would:
(a)  implement the project in accordance with the technical, managerial and
institutional policies, norns and procedures of service delivery developed
during project preparation and agreed to at negotiations (paras. 3.6 and
3.7);
(b)   conduct annual beneficiary assessments through independent organizations
with staff trained in rapid assessment methods to measure patient
satisfaction and effectiveness of program implementation (paras. 3.48);
(c)  follow the agreed monitoring, evaluation and auditing procedures; review
with IDA, by April 30 of each project year, the progress of project
implementation over the previous 12 months; and prepare an annual work
plan for the following year based on the results of the review (para. 4.41
and 4.57);
(d)  review with IDA, every two years, the technical and operational aspects of
the project including progress on cost recovery mechanisms and expenditure
priorities in ophthalmology; and would thereafter take the findings of these
reviews into account during further implementation of the project (pama.
4.42).



- 46 -
6.3        Assurances from GOI. During negotiations, GOI provided assurances that
it would:
(a)  strengthen selected facilities by providing them with a complete "package
of inputs" required for quality service at each level of service delivery
(pam. 3.13);
(b)  complete by July 31, 1994 the development of the standard curriculum for
the "train the trainers" program, and by August 31, 1994, the curriculum
for the remaining categories of staff; make contractual arrangements with
the training institutions selected according to the agreed selection
procedures; and approve the list of trainees for the "train the trainers"
program by August 31, 1994 (para. 3.25);
(c)   maintain the NPCB  Central Project Management Unit, a Project
Coordination Committee and a Technical Advisory Conmittee each with
staff and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, appoint all key staff of the
Central Project Management Unit by September 30, 1994, and retain key
Project Management Unit staff in their positions for at least the first three
years of the project (paras. 3.40 and pam 4.28).
6.4        Assurances from the States. The Project States provided assurances that
they would:
(a)  cause each DBCS to establish a body to which patients treated under the
Project may lodge any grievance relating to the treatment provided. Each
body shall have adequate capacity to effectively assist such patients (para.
3.12);
(b)  select non-governmental organizations and private practitioners on the basis
of procedures and criteria satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.19);
(c)  implement the project activities among the tribal and isolated populations
according to the agreed plan of action summarized in Annex 15 (pam.
3.20);
(d)  require government ophthalmologists participating in the training program
to sign a bond to serve with the government for a minimum of three years
following ECCE training (para. 3.23);
(e)   maintain the State Project Management Unit with the agreed staff and other
resources, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, and
appoint all designated staff by July 31, 1994 (pam. 3.42);
(f)  complete the establishment of the remaining DBCSs, and appoint all the
District Program Coordinators, under the terms agreed with IDA, by July
31, 1994; and enter into an implementation agreement with each DBCS on



- 47 -
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Establishment of the DBCS
would be a requirement for project investment in any district (pars. 3.43);
(g)   develop criteria for IOL and other ophthalmic-related charges by December
31, 1994 and introduce all models of cost recovery schemes by December
31, 1995 (para. 4.17).
6.5        Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes a suitable
basis for a credit of SDR 85.0 million (US$117.8 million eqivalent) to India at standard
IDA terms with 35 year maturity.



-48-
ANNEX1
Causes of Blindness in India
Others 11%        Refractive Errors 7%
Corneal Opacity 2%
Cataract 80%
Note: "Othezs" include 4.69% aphakic blind, 1.70% glaucoma, 0.39% trachoma and
4.25% other cases
Source: MOHFW, Government of India



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
IND
CATARACT BLINDNESS CONTROL PROJECT
PREVALENCE OF BLINDNESS IN THE SEVEN PROJECT STATES'
Population     Total Blind
State        in Thousands    in Thousands    Prevalence
Tamil Nadu         55,638           1,474         2.65
Rajastlian        43,880           983           2.24
Madhya Pradesh       66,135          1,392          2.01
Orissa           31,512           542           1.72
Maharashtra        78,706           1,291          1.64
Uttar Pradesh      138,982          2,192          1.58
Andbra Pradesh       66,304           995           1.50
Source:   Ministry of Health and Family WelPare, Government of India,
New Delhi.
1/ India's overall prevalence is esfimated at 1.3% (Source: Ministry of Health and
Family Welfare, Government of India, New Delhi).



*50 -
INDIA                                      AI NEX  3
CATARACT  ELI'TUDESS  CO:;TROL  PROJECT
ICCE:  INTRACAPSULAR CATARACT EXTRACTION
A                                          --- ---- -a
>eef
Ft. 3.  bwomw   t4 e t a*tammO  PoAlb-. Ex t MIAtiO ths  *   e
X~~~ I
rte. S. IntrtataOuat d3051 aonut   I C _nhu. EItracUing ff015 te  t
t  t0 t MIe Droo"twe .n5V  tamua 56r OufIna tO Close th e
ta' elgsse  6J: loc wit a" 1100 08.0.?or       by Ifecting a s*mall otf
54b04 (HI: 07awnt _no oe4immvo1 b0 0  ever thev   wov &sno e.G _
Source: Mlanagement of Cataract, WHO, 1990, pp. 33-39.



ANN   4
INDIA
CATARACT BLIINNESS CONTROL PROJECT
ECCEI IOL:# Extracasu.tar Cataract Extraction/ Intraocular L4en
L hnt S
for GuLtarae;s
Zeu. hermo es    esanthnelas it
shon ere    upotdb tebckwi   tela
wd                      ~       ~~~~~~~~~~it
capsul   d by enonoto   e,sralkZb
d$_"
thaftpotuem  frm tssie.
Soce  HrvrdHelt  Lete,  ol  1,  o., p r 13
Sorc:linrr weais supLedyther   back wa, Nof6 thel low ,p.3



- 52 -
ANNEXS
WDIA
CAIA& BUNNSS CONIOL PROJC
CATARACT SURGERY - TARGET AND 
1987-68         193            1990          1990.91        1991-92
St|  5     T       A       T       A      T       A      T      A       T      A
And a
Prtdesh    125    76%      125    87%    136    83%    136   97%    200    65%
Mayhyn
Pr8desh    100    79%      100    80%    108    52%    108   78%    1S0    68%
Maharashtra   100    152%    100    147%    100   140%    110   145%    180   105%
Oris"a     35     58%      35     60%     35    91%      35    58%      70    27%
Rajslhan    80    100%      80    100%    86    87%        86    99%     130    62%
Taml Nadu    100    105%    100    111%    108   103%    108   82%    160    95%
Uttar
Prudesh    200    108%    200    107%    216    66%    216   91%    320    77%
-   - ,                             -                 -_                        
Told         740    97%      740    99%    789    89%    79    93%    1210171%
T  Targets in thousands   A - AChievemn
1Aveage annual worldoad for the 5 years is 750,674 cataract sreries. Assuming that the
swven stes can inrease this average to 850,000 per year without the project ipt, they cud
do a mnximum of 5,950,000 sueries in the seven years of the project. With the project, the
Stae would double the outut and inmcase the quality of outomes.



- 53 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
CAbTARACT BLINDNESS CONTROI PROJC
PATTERN OF EXPENDITURES BY STATES
ON THE NATIONAL PROGRAM FOR CONTROL OF BLINDNESS
1988-1993
SEVE PROJECT STATES
STATES                 FIVE YEAR AVERAGE
EXPENDITURE
(in Rs. million)
AndbhaPradesh                     4.0
Madhya Pradesh                    16.4
6.2
Orissa                        2.8
Rajasthan                       3.1
Tamil Nadu                       2.2
Uttar Pradesh                    6.8
Five Year Average Expenditure
in the Seven Project States:                Rs. 41.4 million



- 54 -                     Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
TWENTY FIVE NON-PROJECT STATES AND UNION TERRITORIES
STATES                   FIVE YEAR AVERAGE
EXPENDITURE
(in Rs. million)
Arunachal Pradesh                      1.0
Assam                             3.5
Bihar                            1.3
Goa                             0.3
Gujarat                          17.6
Haryana                           0.9
Himachal Pradesh                       0.8
Jammu & Kashmir                        0.9
Karnataka                          3.9
Kerala                            2.4
Manipur                           0.5
Meghalaya                          0.5
Mizoram                            0.1
Nagaland                           0.3
Punjab                            1.5
Sikkim                            0.4
Tripura                           0.9
West Bengal                         3.4
Andaman & Nicobar                      0.07
Chandigarh                         0.04
Dadra Nagar Haveli                     0.01
Daman & Diu                         0.03
Delhi                            0.00
Lakshoweep                         0.06
Pondicherry                        0.12
Five Year Average Expenditure in the Twenty Five
Non-Project States and Union Territories:        Rs. 39.0 million
(Average release to the Non-Project States & UTs:  Rs. 36.7 million)



- 55-
CATARCT llLNDWNBSS CO1NTRO)L PROJECT
EXPENDITURES SINCE 1985-86 ON
THE NATIONAL PRQGRAM FOR CONTROL OF BLINDNESS
IN CONSTANT 1992 RS. (DIWONS)
Year                GOIEndiiu                 State ExpendiRe          Total
1985-86                  81.21                    07.89                89.10
1986-87                  67.97                     15.73               83.70
1987-88                  67.66                    27.41                95.07
1988-89                  61.27                     24.96               86.23
1989-90                  60.77                    43.84                104.61
1990-91                  59.29                    25.52                84.81
1991-92                  97.03                    00.05                97.08
Source:   Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Government of India, and the seven
participating states.



- 56 -
ANNEX 8
CATARACT BLINDNESS CONTROL PROlECT
PARTIAL LIST OF NON-GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATIONS (NGOs)
TNVOLVED IN BLNDNESS CONTROL
Non-Government Organization                                   State
Sight Savers                                                  All India
Christoffel Blinden Mission (CBM)                             All India
Seva Foundation                                               All India
Lions Club                                                    All India
Rotary Club                                                   All India
Royal Commonwealth Society for the Prevention of Blindness    All India
National Society for the Prevention of Blindness              All India
The Indian Red Cross Society                                  All India
The National Association for the Blind                        All India
Shivanananda Mission                                          All India
Aravindi Eye Hospital                                         Tamil Nadu
O.E.U. Hospital                                               Andhra Pradesh
Pune Blind Men's Association                                  Mabarashtra
Veda Vyas Eye Hospital                                        Orissa
Serangi Hospital                                              Orissa
Guru Nanak Eye Hospital                                       Madhya Pradesh
Sitapur Group of Eye Hospitals                                Uttar Pradesh
Khairabad Eye Hospital                                        Uttar Pradesh
The Ghandi Eye Hospital                                       Uttar Pradesh
Bharat Vikas Rishad                                           Rajasthan
Vishawa Hindu Parishad                                        Rajasthan
Bhartiya Sewa Samaj                                           Rajasthan



- 57-
INDIN
CATARACT BLINDNESS CONTROL PROJECT
PROJECTED CATARACT WORKLOAD IN THE SEVEN STATES
STATE                                              SEVEN-YEAR
WORKLOAD
Andhra Pradesh                                          1,320,000
Madhya Pradesh                                           1,800,000
Maharashtra                                              1,380,000
Orissa                                                    730,000
Rajasthan                                                1,380,000
Tamil Nadu                                               1,550,000
Uttar Pradesh                                           2.870.000
TOTAL
Source:   National Institutes of Health. Model-Based Workload Projetions for the Seven
Project States. (Report submitted duing pre-appraisal mission, Febmary 1993).



- 58-
ANN,EX 10
CATARACT BLINDNESS CONTROL PROJECT
SERVICE DELIEMRY MODELS
1.             Service delivery models work accordingly to three tiers for diagnosis and
treatment of patients:
1)     Primary care at block and village levels by Medical Officers, Ophthlb mic
Assistants, multipurpose health assistants and health workers;
2)     Secondary care - cataract operations - at District Hospitals and Community
Health Centers and through mobile camps; and
3)     Tertiary care in regional eye hospitals and medical college hospitals.
2.             Primary health care involves preventive care such as distibution of vitamim A
tablets, treatment of minor ailments such as local infections and screening of cataract where
Para-Meical Ophthalmic Assistants are posted. For bilateral cases, operations can be performed
in camps in fixed facilities at the Primary Health Center or the Commumiy Health Center levels.
Twse with premature catract, unilateral cataract (ECCE/IOL), advanced cataact problems or
complicated cases suffering from other major ailments, such as diabetes, are operated and treated
at the district hospitals. Cases with traumatic cataract problems, infants with cataracts, and
unilatefal caseS (ECCE/IOL) are treated by specialists in regional eye hospitals and medical
college hospitals.
PHC and                          Preventive Care, Primary Eye
below levels -                    Care and Screening of Cataract
pubLic, private &                   Patients
NOO services I/
Selected CHCs and
below levels -                   FSBelated Cataract - ICCE - Caw
public, private &
EGo services 1/
District                        j Unilateral'Cataract with ECCE1
Hospitals &                       lOL Advanced and Premature Ca-
MGO Hospitals                     taract Comptlicated Cases - Cawa
"Wiedlca Collegee                   TrauratSe Cataract, IOL      l
Hospftals      >  .              Implants Cataract in Infants,X
{ R sosooeefie rvad OaOne Eye
11eF4ds to use of Govemmnt th.-fa;ides by prm te and NGO) pwWdfonens



- 59 -
ANNEX 11
INDIA
CATARACT BLINDNESS CONTROL PROECT
LIST OF STAFF AND EOUIPMENT NEEDED BY SERVICE DELIVERY FACILITIES
FACILITIES        STAFF                                     EQUIPMENT
Primary        Surgical    Trial lens set and frames for children and adults; retinoscope (mirror); snellen
Health         Teams'    charts and near vision charts; tonometer (shiotz) with manual; dust-tight
Centers                    ophthalmoscope with battery handle; torch; corneal loupes (uniocular); binomags;
lidretractors (desmarre); fluroresceinstrips for corneal abrasions; xylocaine eye
drops for tonometry; homatropine eye drops for pupil dilatation, foreign body spud
and needles; lacrimal cannula and punctum dilator; and bag for carrying
l _____________   ____________   equipments.
District       Surgical    In addition to Primary Health Care equipment, lacrimal probe set; slit lamp;
Mobile          Teams      gonioscope; surgical set for cataract and glaucoma; cryo unit; ambulance emergency
Units1                     kit with oxygen cylinder: power generator; operating theater equipments (tables,
l___________  lights, sterilizers); and surgical trays, etc.
District       Surgical    In addition to District Mobile Unit equipment, perimeter, indirect ophthalmoscope;
Hospitals/       Teams      bjerrun screen'; rotating test drum; prism bar; istruments for DCR and squint;
Fixed                     instruments for entropion and other Ltd operations; instruments for enucleations; and
Facilities3                 instruments for ocular trauma.
Selected       Surgical    Ophthalmoscopes; retinoscope streak; indirect ophthalmoscope; keratometer;
Medical         Teams      lensometer (focimeter); Goldman tonometer; Goldman perimeter. bjerrum screen;
Colleges                    trial set; v.a. drums; biomags; slit lamp of any standard variety; low visual aid
testing set; gonioscope; 3 mirror c lens; pseudo isochromatic charts (ishiham or a.u.
type); maddox wing; tangent scale; livingston binocular gauge;foster's near point
rule; treatment rack sterilizer; operating microscope (opmi-9 type); camerafor
clinical photography; camera for findus (wde angle); miami magnet, ma4or
diathermy (keekr); cryo unit (keeler's type); bray applicator, rust ring remove;
suction apparatus; yag laser; ultrasonograph A scan (austrian); and argon laser.
Selected       Surgical    In addition to Medical College equipment, prism bar set; operating microscope
Regional        Teams       (opmi-7 type); ultrasonograph B scan (austrian); fiudus camera for flourscein
Institutes of                angiography; boyl's apparatus; and VISC apparatus.
Ophthalmology                                                                                             l
I/      A surgical team would consist of one ophthalmologist or ophthalmic surgeon (OS), two nurses and an operating
theater assistant or para-medical ophthalmic assistant (PMOA) who would be responsible for diagnosis, screening
and follow-up of routine cases. In District Hospitals, the out-patient department staff would include two PMOAs
for each OS. Selected Community Health Centers (CHCs) and Primary Health Centers (PHCs) would be staffed
with one PMOA, and the surgical services would be provided by surgical teams in mobile units.
2l      District Mobile Units (DMUs) are attached to Medical Colleges or District Hospitals and would travel to other
fixed facilities.
31      e.g., CHCs and PHCs equipped witl- Operatinsg Theaters.
4l      Equipment in ias is appropriate for general eye care services. but not necessary for cataract treatments



60 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 6
MSIA
CATARACT BLINDNESS CONTROL PROJECT
TECHNICAL GUIDELINES
Guidelines for the optimal use of ECCE with IOL or the use of ICCE.
1.        ICCE with spectacles is the predominant approach to sight restoration among the
cataract blind in India. Compared to the ECCE surgical technique, ICCE is relatively
straightforward and suitable under appropriate sanitary conditions for eye camp settings; the
technical training and equipment demands are less, e.g., the use of an operating microscope
is not required. ECCE with and without an IOL should only be done at an appropriately
equipped facility.
2.        An important limitation exists with ICCE surgery and aphakic spectacles: it is
suitable only for the bilaterally blind patient (the blindness bacldog patient where sight has
been lost in both eyes and where significant economic and social deprivation is likely to have
already taken place). If the cataract operation takes place before the second eye is also blind
(the unilateral or blindness incidence case), the patient with aphalic spectacles will see two
inages, one noticeably larger than the other, producing an untenable situation in most
circumstances. In general, the unilateral blind patient is helped only if ECCE surgery is
performed and an IOL is implanted. (The unilaterally blind case is important because of the
potential to intervene, i.e., to prevent blindness, before adverse socio-economic impact has
been experienced.) Thus, as utilization of the newer ECCE technology expands in India, the
existing ICCE technology, which has been the mainstay of cataract surgery for decades,
should be reserved for the bilaterally blind and for those where one eye has already been
operated with ICCE and the patient is using aphakic spectacles. The surgeon must be willing
to recommend against cataract surgery when ECCE/IOL is indicated but not available, or
arrange referral to a base hospital with ECCE capability.
3.        Surgical management for the following patient categories is given in order of
preference. The final decision will be taken by the Ophthalmic Surgeon on the basis of sight
restoration potential, patient's condition and feasibility. The choices given are in order of
preference.
Unilateral Blindness (better eye > 6/24)  1.  ECCE/IOL
2. Do not operate.
3. (ICCE only when medically
indicated, e.g., hypermature, and
referral to appropriate facility is
not possible).



- 61-
ANNE 12
Page 2 of 6
Unilateral Blindness (better eye 6/36)   1.  ECCE/IOL.
2.  ICCE (if facilities are not
available or referral is
not possible).
Unilateral Blindness (better eye > 6/36  1. ICCE.
+ aphakia and good vision with glasses)  2.  Do not operate.
3.  ECCE/IOL.
Unilateral Blindness (better eye > 6/36  1.  ECCE.
+ pseudoaphakia IOL)                     2.  Do not operate.
One-eyed patient (permanently blind in   1. ECCE/IOL.
one eye)                                 2.  ICCE.
Bilateral Blindness (better eye > 3/60   1. ECCE/IOL.
to < 6/60)                               2.  ICCE.
Bilateral Blindness (better eye < 3/16i)  1. ECCE/IOL or ICCE.
The outcome to be achieved relates to both patient satisfaction and the degree of sight
restoration. These two considerations are key in determining the indications for surgical
intervention.
Guidelines for Pre-Operative. Operative and Post-Operative Care
Pre-operative Evaluation
4.        The pre-operative evaluation should include the following:
Code 1.   Visual acuity with pinhole.
Light perception and projection in both eyes.
Code 2.   Pupillary reaction.
Code 3.   Lacrimal passage (Syringing and examination).
Code 4.   Deviation of eye (d..sirable).
Code 5.  Intra-Ocular pressure.
Code 6.   Manifest refraction (desirable).
Code 7.   Retina examination with direct ophthal and indirect ophthalmoscope
(desirable).
Code 8.   Optic disc cup and color.
Code 9.   Pathology of other eye, if any.
Code 10.  Systemic examination:



- 62-
ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 6
A.  Blood pressure
B.  Urine analysis
C.  Cardiovascular, respiratory or allergic disorders.
Code 11. Conjunctival Sac infection/discharge.
Code 12. Slit lamp examination wherever possible.
Checklist for Operative Procedure
Code 1.   Ensure strict asepsis.
Code 2.   Availability of sets of instruments (2 sets/table).
Code 3.   Cryo surgical istrument is working.
Code 4.   Ensure effective anaesthesia and hypotony.
Code 5.   Decision about ICCE or ECCE with IOL.
Code 6.   Availability of life saving drugs in Operating Theater (OT).
Code 7. Not less than five (5) corneoscleral stitches are applied.
Operative Checklist (to be notified)
Code 1.   Retrobulbar hemorrhage.
Code 2.   Dislocation of lens into vitreous on table.
Code 3. Rupture of capsule (unplanned - anterior/posterior).
Code 4.   Vitreous loss.
Code 5.   Expulsive hemorrhage.
Code 6.   Posterior Capsular (PC) mpture (ECCE).
Code 7. Endophtbatmitis.
Code 8.  Iris prolapse and abscission.
Code 9.   Persistent flat anterior chamber (48 - 72 hours).
Code 10. Resuturing of wound.
Code 11. Visual acuity with pinhole at discharge.
Code 12. Direct Ophtbalmoscopic examination (Oedema/any other
abnormalities/absence or displacement of IOL).
Code 13. Comeal abnormality.
Code 14. Displacement of IOL.
Code 15.  Elevated IOP requiring treatment.
Code 16. Severe iritis and hyphema.
For all cases in which VISUAL OUTCOME IS NOT SATISFACTORY (ECCE/IOL <
6/16; ICCE. < 6/60), possible causes shall be assigned after detailed examinaton.
A DATA CARD FOR USE WITH CODE NOS. OF THE SIZE 4" x 6" shall be prepared
for all cases undergoing camp surgery.
Evaluation and Follow-uM Proforma (at six weeks Post-operative)
1. Is the eye congested/tender/irritable?



- 63-
Page 4 of 6
2. Corrected visual acuity:
Code 1.       > 6/9
Code 2.       > 6/18
Code 3.       > 6/36
Code 4.       < 6/60
Retinal examination and slit lamp examination of Codes 3 and 4 and assign the reason.
3.   Beneficiary Satisfaction (vision restoraton):
Code 1.       Good
Code 2-3.     Pair
Code 4.       Poor
The beneficiary should be queried as to atsfaction with the visual outcome.
Guidelines for Ouality Control Measures
5.        Triage of all patients seeking cataract surgery under this project ideally would
take place before the patient arrives at an eye surgical camp, a surical fixed camp, distict
hospital or base facility (where patients appear diectdy and seek facilies, the tiage funcon
must be the first step in the process). The triage must be perfonred by a competm person
able to determine the presence of a caaract and measure the visal acuity of each eye. The
triage information to be recorded, in addition to the usual age, sex, address, etc., is the
visual acuity in each eye, classified in one of the three categories: <3/60, >3/60 - <6/60,
> 6/60 - < 6/24 and >6/24. If the better vision is _6/24, the patient must be refred to
a disdtnct hospital or other facility where ECCE/IOL Surgeay is available.
6.        The tiage form will appear thus:
vision                RE.                  LE.
<    3/60_ _               _   _  _   _    _ _  _   _     _  _
t>3/60- <6/60                                                 .
> 6/60- < 6/24          .                                       l
i  6/24



- 64-
ANNEX 12
Page 5 of 6
Disposition of the patient will be determined as shown below.
Vision Better Eye               Dispostion1
< 3/60 - BILATERAL              ECCE/IOL or ICCE
BLINDNESS
> 3/60 to < 6/60 - BILATERAL   ECCE/IOL or ICCE
BLINDNESS
> 6/36 - AND APHAKIA            ICCE/NO
TREATMENT/ECCEtIOL
I 6/36 - and PSEUDOAPHAKIA   ECCE/IOLNO TREATMENT
IOL
6/36 UNILATERAL                 ECCE/1OL or ICCE
BLINDNESS
> 6/242 UNILATERAL              ECCE/IOLJNO
BLENDNESS               TREATMENT/1CCE
ONE - EYED PATIENT              ECCE/IOL or ICCE
1J/    Under umsual cirmsunces, if patient has a special need for ECCE/IOL, refer
to appropriate facility.
ICCE only when surgery is medically indicated, e.g., hypermate catract
(anterior lens bulgmg, nucleus floating in liquid cortex), and ECCE/IOL is not
available.



- 65 -
ANNEX 12
Page 6 of 6
7.        The recording of patient pre-operative examination surgery and post operative
outcome are shown below. The. minimal data requirements must be available for every
patient.
PATIENT EXAMINATION. SURGERY AND FOLLOW-UP OUTCONMES
(Minimum Data Requirements for each Patient examined)
Patient Name:
Age:
Gender:
Village:
Examination Outcomes
Exam Facility/location:
Exam date:
Title of Examiner (e.g.. Ophthalmologist Assistant. Health Assistant. Other - Please specify)
Affiliation (Please check one):   NGO _  Government _    Private _
Visual acuity: Right eye, left eye (with best correction)
Aphakia/pseudoaphakia: RE: yes, no; LE: yes, no
Cataract diagnosed: RE: yes, no; LE: yes, no
Surgery indicated: RE: yes, no; LE: yes, no
If no, reason (e.g.. other medical conditions. other blinding conditions)
.Surgerv
Surgery, performance: yes, no
If no, reason (e.g.. Ratient refused)
Surgery Facility/location:
Surgery date:
Surgery procedure: ICCE, ECCE/IOL, Other (Please specify):



-66-
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 2
IND1[A
CATARACT BLINDNESS CONTROL PROJECT
REOUED EOUIPMENT FOR CONDUCTING ECCE/IOL SURGERIES
1.        The following equipment should be available at selected medical colleges and
district hospitals (or other facilities expected to provide ECCE/IOL) to allow for a thorough
ophthalmic examination.
Operating microscope
Slit lamp with applanation tonometry
Indirect binocular ophthalmoscope
Bjerrum screen with targets
Direct Ophthalmoscopes
Schiotz tonometer
Anterior vitrectomy unit with probes
Keratometer
High speed autoclave
Micro-surgical sets (10)
2.        The rationale underpinning this equipment list is, first, concern for the quality of
the surgical outcome, and secondarily, system output. For teaching purposes, a medical
college should have the above, plus the following:
Ultrasound (A&B scan)
YAG laser
3.        Proper and systematic preventive maintenance of all critical equipment items is
necessary to ensure maximum availability throughout the year.
4.        When additional bed capacity is the limiting factor at a fixed facility,
consideration should be given to temporary beds. It is expected that a high-production
distict hospital would have a minimum of 30 beds dedicated to ophthalmic patients, 10 beds
should be available in a subdivision hospital, and a minimum of 6 beds should be available in
a CHC, unless they are used as permanent camp sites. Bed reqirements should be based on
providing a 3-4 day operative stay for patients distant from the facility (utilizing 507 coneo-
seleral sutures) and 1-2 days stay for local patients.



- 67-
ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 2
Package for IOL Surgery
5.        In addition to the requirement for ECCE, the following consumable are required:
(a)  IOL implant'
(b)  Balanced salt solution
(c)  Visco-elastic substance (methyl cellulose)
(d)  Gentamycin injection
(e)  10'0" nylon suture2
Refractive Services of Aphakic Cases
6.        In view of the practical difficulties inb-rent in providing refractive services for
operated patients (ICCE) in remote outreach areas, a range of aphakic spectacles, e.g.,
+9.OD + 10.OD + 11.OD should be available for testing purposes and dispensing to patients.
Wherever possible, refraction and prescription of the required power of aphalic spectacles
are desirable. This should generally be possible whenever ICCE surgery is carried out in a
fixed facility.
7.        The instruments used in ICCE surgery are:
Sterile syringe
Light wire lid speculum
Toothed forceps (2 pairs)
Conjunctival scissors
Hot point cautery
No. 11 blade or keratome
Corneal scissors
Iris forceps
Iris scissors
Closed intacapsular forceps
Cryoextractor   (if available, is preferred to a closed intracapsular
forceps).
Muscle hook or lens extractor
Iris repositor
1/    The powers of IOL recommended to be stocked are + 18 +19 +20, and +21.
2/    Instead of the 8'0 virgin silk suture.



- 68 -
Annex 14
Page 1 of 2
MNDIA
CATARACT BLINDNESS CONTROL PROJECT
GUIDELINES FOR SELECTION OF NGOs AND
PRIVATE PRACTITIONERS
1.        The participation of NGOs is to be limited to organizations incorporated under
the Societies Registration Act, charitable institutions, public tsts, statutory bodies and
cooperative professional bodies. Entities with government ownership or control would not be
eligible. GOI would consider whether and to what extent groups of individuals who, at the
time of applying to participate in the Project, may not have fulfilled the requirements of legal
mncorporation as defined (such as community-based groups), could useflly participate in the
Project. Whereas as a general matter, participation may be limited to entities that are
already incorporated legally, such groups of individuals could, for example, be permitted to
participate under appropriate terms and conditions (including a stipulation that they would
acquire legal personality before receiving assistance under the Project).
2.        Criteria for selection are:
(a) Track record of having performed well in providing eye care services.
(b) Experience in coordinating and supporting high-quality cataract operations in
terms of vision restoration.
(c)  Having available well-tained staff.
(d) Having available the requisite managerial expertise to organize and carry out
cataract control programs.
(e)  Having standing or experience in the community where they would be involved.
(f) Agreeing to abide by the essental norms of the program.
3.        Every effort should be made to assign geographic areas to NGOs and provide
them with adequate funding to carry out such assignments.
4.        Funding can be provided through the general grants in aid or on a per case basis.
If the latter is the case, norms established at the center would be used as the basis for
compensation. These norms would adequately reflect the cost of performing these services
whether it is simply for eye care education of screening and case processing, identification
activities or the full range of services including the operation itself. Additionally, adequate
provision would be made to ensure that Nodal NGOs are provided support for other non-
recurring and recurring costs that are necessary to support the conduct of these operations.



- 69-
Annex 14
Page 2 of 2
5.        To guarantee quality control (sight restoration), NGOs doing surgical work
should receive only a portion (half) of the cost of cataract operations prior to surgery
services and the balance upon verification that sight has been restored, as testified in writing
by a fwmily member.
6.        Payment to NGOs would be done according to costing norms established by the
Cental Government.
7.        Procedures for provision of services (contracting arrangements or legal
agreements) would be in place prior to any work assignment.
8.        Resolution of disputes regarding selection procedures would be handled by the
Project Coordination Committee.



-70 -
ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 2
INDLA
CATARACT BLINDNESS CONTROL PROJECT
PLAN OF ACTION FOR TRIBAL AND OTHER ISOLATED AREAS
I IMPLEMENTATION
OBJECTIVE_                           ACTION                          J_RESPONSIBILITY
i prove         Cary out epidemiological and rapid ethnographic studies      State
Service     of blindness in tribal and remote areas during the first year of  DBCS
Delivery     the project.
Establish DBCS in all Tribal Districts on a priority basis.  State
DBCS
Establish inmfastructure (fixed facilidtes) in tribal districts  State
with close proximity to tribal populations.                    DBCS
Redeploy existing ophthalmological personnel (surgeons,      State
PMOAs, etc.) from non-tribal to tribal areas on a selective
basis by providing them with appropriate living
accommodations and non-monetary incentives.
Develop an annual calendar or fixed day approach for        DBCS
Eye Camps to be held in tribal areas.
Assign an additional DMU in tribal and remote areas.        State
Pay higher rates to NGGs and private surgeons for           DBCS
services in tribal areas.
Assign additioa ophthalmic assistants in tribal areas to    State
facilitate coverage.
Establish service contacts with private ophthalmologists    State
and leters of agreement with NGOs to cover specified tribal    DBCS
areas.
Provide incntives to private ophthalmologists to set up     State
practice and cover specific tribal districts, on a pilot basis.  DBCS



-71-
ANX 15
Page 2 of 2
OBJECTVE                                    ACTION                                I AGENT
Inform and       Engage a private organization or NGO to prepare and carry out a plan of    DBCS
Motivate     action for IEC with the involvement of beneficiary tribal communities.
Patients
Carry out screening camps in community gathering places and inform  DBCS
about carats.                                                         NGOs
Facilitat       Establsh Speci Eye Camps for women only i tribal and hard to reach  State
Access to    areas.                                                                 DBCS
Services                                                                           NGOs
Use DBCS contingency funds to reimburse patients for the cost of   DBCS
transportation and lost wages.
Provide transportation for patien  who have been screened for surgery  State
but are unable to reach :he facilities, e.g., district hospital or a distant CHC.    DBCS
NGiOs
Monitoring       Conduct periodic meetings with tribal community members to obtain   DBCS
feedback on program effectiveness.                                    NGOs
Conduct annual beneficiary assessment to measure patients' satisfaction  State
with results and services in all tribal areas.                        DBCS
Schedule frequent tours and spot checks of facilities and services in trbal    State
and remote areas.                                                     DBCS
NGOs
Carry out bi-annual review of tribal implementation plan by the DBCS  State
and State cells.                                                      DBCS



"a t   *'    *  '  "  '
X j | I I    |fj l                   m' P.11  1' 11 [1 G11  I[Xf!fj   f1P'  PrX|  
!~~r X                               I        w USS
li             II               vf                      ii      ;     ; *[  
_   ~~~~                       V             -     
_ ~ ~~ U 8a                           8      I
_   |~~~~~~~~~~                      4



- 73 -
ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 4
INDIA
CATARACT BLINDNESS CONTROL PROJECT
SELECTION OF MEDICAL COLLEGES AND INSTITUTIONS
FOR TAIUNER TRATNING I
I         The following institutional criteria have to be satisfied by the medical college
department before its faculty are recruited for training as trainers.
(a)  The Head of the department should make an unambiguous written commitment to
facilitate and provide the necessary support for a major training effort. This
includes the planned retention of the trained faculty members in the same
institution for a minimum of three years (including a commitment from the State
Govcrnment for the same).
(b)  There should be evidence to show that an adequate number of patients are
available to provide adequate surgical training experience for resident trainees.
If the volume of patients is inadequate, the department should demonstrate that it
will be able to increase this volume.
(c)  Infrastructural facilities such as equipment for patient evaluation, A-Scan
ultrasonography, operating microscope with assistant scope, and other necessary
microsurgical instruments should be available. Information should be provided
on year of purchase and working order. Other infrastructural facilities that
should be available are: library facilities, accommodation facilities for trainees,
lecture halls, audio-visual equipment, etc.
(d)  Deficiencies in i,frastructure must be rec.ified by the current program,
preferably by the time the trained faculty returns to the departnent.
(e)  At least two, preferably three, members of the faculty will be trained from each
department. It is recommended that each of these will be trained in a different
training center to encourage some degree of diversity in thinking and exposure.
1/Training Guidelines developed during the Training Workshop with Indian
Ophthalmologists, NGOs, Medical College Directors and NIH Consultants.



. 74 -
ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 4
(f)  There should be evidence of the following: (i) track record of training in cataract
surgery; (ii) well developed curriculum already available; (iii) commitment to
one on one supervised training; (iv) competence in making any diagnosis and
appropriate treatment of complications, and the methodology of training others in
the management of such problems; and availability of training program materials.
Evaluation of Existing Post-Graduat: Training Proeram
2.        Through an on-site visit before selection as a site for faculty upgrading, the
following factors should be assessed:
(a)  Faculty members in department:
-    total number involved in teaching
-    general and specialty areas covered
-    time devoted to supervised teaching (scrub with operating surgeon)
(b)  Training program methods and materials.
(c)  Number of resident doctors in department.
(d)  Practice of cataract surgery:
-    total number of cataract surgeries performed during the past 12 months;
and
-    number of supervised cataract surgeries performed by junior residents/post
graduates: ICCE, ECCE, ECCE with Posterior Chamber IOL, ICCE with
Anterior Chamber IOL (Supervised cataract surgeries implies that the
training surgeon is scrubbed and present with the trainee during the entire
procedures).
(e)  Equipment availability (year of purchase and working order):
-    slit lamp
-    operating microscope
-    keratometer
-    A-Scan
-    Yag laser
-    other



- 75-
ANNEX 17
Page 3 of 4
(f)  Patient care techniques and follow-up care system.
(g)  Resident training documentation system.
3.        In addition, the institutional training program can be assessed through interviews
with trainees, both current and past. Information on cataract surgical experience from
representative trainees is especially important:
Supervised         Independent
Cases Assisted      Cases ODerated      Cases
ICCE:
ECCE:
ECCE with PC IOL:
ICCE with AC IOL:



- 76 -
ANNEX 17
Page 4 of 4
EVALUATION OF TRAINING EXPERIENCE
Name of training institution:
Please indicate using numerical values, your evaluation of the training program.
5. Outstanding    4. Very Good    3. Average    2. Fair   1. Poor
1.   Quality of preoperative assessment                 1 ]
a.   Use of modem techniques                       E ]
b.   Diagnostic methodology                        I ]
c.   Teaching/discussion                           1 ]
d.   Demonstration of fludings                     I ]
2.   Surgery
a.   Surgical skills of supervisor                 1 I
b.   Judgment of supervisor                        1 ]
c.   Handling of complications                     I I
d.   Discussion of procedure                       I ]
3.   Post-operative Care
a.   Early diagnosis of problem                    1 ]
b.   Management of problem                         I ]
c.   Discussion of post-operative care             [ ]
4.   Didactic
a.   Content of lectures                           I ]
b.   Quality of presentations                      1 ]
c.   Interaction with trainees                     I ]
d.   Quality of audio-visual material              t ]
5.   Surgical Equipments
a.   Access                                        [ ]
b.   Quality                                       t ]
c.   Functionability                               [ ]
6.   Library
a.   Access                                        1 I
b.   Materials
(i) Quantity                                 [ I
(ii) Quality                                 [ ]
7.   Accommodation                                      [ I
8.   Interaction with other aspects of organization     1 ]
9.   Overall rating
Comments:



- 77 -
Page 1 of 3
ILNDIA
CATARCT IBLdD-NESS CONTROL PROEC
T-RARInNG lPRQG{ liDlR OPUITHALUOLOGlUn 
A. "Train the Trainers Program
1.        Approximately 96 faculty members from 39 medical colleges in the 7 Staes and
an additional 20 ophthlologists, 10 from other government hospitals, and 10 from NGOs
affiliated with the program, would be trained as trainers in the selected institutions each year.
The four-month program would involve sugical techniques (ECCE/IOL and ICCE), mehods
of op onal efciency, and teaching methodologies. Formal com     n  will be obtained
from the state governmnnt and medical colleges to release faty and staff for the period
required. The taining would include banson clinical practice.
2.        A minimum of 75 cataract surgery cases should be allocated to each candidate as
folows:
(a)  25 cases where the candidate scrubs with the taining surgeon (assists with the
case);
(b)  25 cases wher the candidate operates under close superviion (training surgeon
scrubbig and present during the entre period);
(c)  20 cases of independent surgery; and
(d)  5 cases of training a new residentlfellow.
3.        The content of the curriculum are as follows:
(a)  Surgial considon suitabiity and preop. preparation of ECCE and IOL.
(b)  Pre-aesthesia and ocular anesteia
(c)  Drugs, solutions, viscoelastic stances and suture material.
(d)  Microurgical and optical insmns.
(e)  Calculation of power of IOL.
(f)  Material and design of IOL.
(g)  Handling and care of  c cal instuments.
(h)  Sate of the Art of ECCE - Part I (Incision and Capsulectomy).
l/Traig Guidelines developed durmg the Training Workshop with Indian
Ophtlmologists, NGOs, Medical Collge Diectors and NIH Conulan.



- 78 -
Amwex 18
Page 2 of 3
(i) State of the Art of ECCE - Part II (Nuclear Delivery Aspiration).
0)   State of the Art of IOL Implantation (Anterior Chamber and Posterior Chamber).
(k) Complications and Management of IOL Surgery - Part I (Intra Operative).
(1) Complications and Management of IOL Surgery - Part II (Post Operative,
including Yag Laser application).
(m) Pedagogical Principles.
4.        The suggested program is as follows:
(a) 96 hours for hands on animal eyes and enucleated eyes for Development of
Hand-Eye Coordination and Working Experience With Operating Microscope.
(b)  24 hours for Ultrasound Biometery.
(c)  24 hours for Keratometery.
(d)  128 hours for O.P.D. Diagnosis and Detection.
(e)  128 hours for Ward - Pre and Post Operative Assessment.
(')   18 hours for Observation and Familiarization with Ophalmic Theater
Procedures (scrubbing, sterilization and Asepsis).
(g) 25 hours assisting 25 cases.
(h)  25 hours operating under supervision.
(i) 25 hours operating 20 cases independently and 5 cases training others.
*j) 64 hours Observation in the Ophthalmic Theater (other surgeons).
(k) 27 hours of Lectures and Demonstrations.
(1) 180 hours of Library Work.
(m) 20 hours of Preparation of Work Report.
5.        Some important suggestions are as follows:
(a)  The Trainer to Trainee Ratio should be 1: 1.
(b) The training scheme should include (i) orientation to operating microscope by
practicing on animal eyes and use donor eyes after 25 cases and (ii) performing
extraocular procedures under microscope, e.g., Pterygium excision, conjunctival
suturing (25 cases).
(c)  For ECCE/IOL, the trainee should observe, assist and perform, under
supervision or independently, 25 cases each.
(d)  Training in Laser technology, including investigative procedures, may be of 4
weeks duration.
(e)  A team, comprising of experts, would visit Institutions to be certified as Training
Institutions for IOL Technology.
(f) The Training Institutions so identified and certified should be fully equipped for
training by providing extra faculty, equipments and material. IOL and viscosity
material could be provided as training material if there is scope of increasing
surgery by ECCE/IOL technique.



* 79 -
Annex 18
Page 3 of 3
6.        Each trainer candidate will be evaluated on surgical and patient care skills by the
faculty of the training center upon completion of the four-month course. The candidate will
also be reviewed for competence in teaching and evaluation skills. After newly trained
trainers return to their home institution, an upward feedback mechanism shall be established
whereby these trainers, who have now worked in the field, shall communicate to their
taining institutions their confirmation, suggested revisions and additions concerning the
training curriculum they had undertaken to keep it up to date for the berefit of future trainers
B. Training of Practicing Ophthalmologists in ECCE with IOL Implants
7.        Following a training needs assessment, other surgeons (not trained as trainers)
from medical colleges, regional eye institutes, and selected district hospitals with
considerable experience in conducting ICCE would be given preference for training in ECCE
vith IOL implants. This training will be conducted at selected medical colleges and training
centers that meet the required institutional criteria (Anex 17). Approximately 500 of these
sgeons would be trained both in ECCE with IOL implants and in high volume cataract
sugery using the ICCE technique. These practicing ophthalmologists would be attached to
one of the designated medical colleges/hospitals where "trainers" are available to work as a
member of the surgical team for a period of 16 weeks. In addition, during the project,
another estimated 500 active surgeons would be given further training in high volume ICCE
surgery through one-week technical workshops.
C. Training for Suricallv Non-active Surteons in ICCE
8.        Many government ophthalmologists currently assigned to non-ophthlmic duties
would be selectively trained and redeployed. Approximately 200 such ophthalmologists
would be deputed to ophthalmology departments of the designated medical colleges or to
district hospitals for a period of 12 weeks to undergo training in high volume cataract
surgery using the ICCE technique.



- 80-
ANNEK 19
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
CATARACT BLINDNESS CONTROL PROJECT
TRALNING OF ALLIED PERSONNEL AND OTHERS
IN OPHTHALMOLOGY I
1.        The availability of ophthalmic assistants and ophthalmic nursing care constitutes
an essential ingredient in the cost-effective delivery of cataract surgery. Specialized training
to enhance the ophthalmic and community health skills of paramedical and nursing personnel
is needed to make efficient use of the ophthalmologists. A team effort is necessary.
A.  Trainee Candidates:
(a) Government trained nurses with ophthalmic knowledge.
(b) Government trained nurses with the desire and ability to undergo
ophthalmic training.
(c) Health Assistants.
(d) Ophthalmic technicians/assistants and Medical Officers.
(e) Nurses trained in private sector with ophthalmic knowledge.
(f) General private murses interested in ophthalmic training.
B.  Duration of Course:
Twelve weeks of intensive disciplined training by ophthalmic surgeons, senior
ophthlmic nursing staff and hospital administrators will be provided to Allied
Personnel such as Nurses (500) and to Health Assistants (250). Because of their
previous technical training (2 years in Training Institutes), Para-Medical
Ophthalmic Assistants (3,000) will be given a one week refresher course and
additional training in Community Outreach. Medical Officers (3,500) of Primary
Health Centers will be given a three-day training program to inform them about
the National Program for the Control of Blindness.
'Training Guidelines developed during the Training Workshop with Indian Ophthalmologists,
NGOs, Medical College Directors and NIH Consultants.



- 81
ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 3
C.   Learning Objectives:
(a)  Pre-operative assessment and preparation of patients.
(b)  Retro-bulbar and facial block under supervision of medical person.
(c) Assisting in ICCE, ECCE and intraocular operations (minimum 50 per
trainee: 25 as second assistant with senior nurse and 25 as first assistant).
(d)  Care and maintenance of instruments -  equipment.
(e)  Sterilization of sharp and blunt instruments.
(f)  Packing of bins and autoclaving.
(g)  Post-operative care.
D.  Traing Program:
Knowledge (Didactic Lectures)
1.   Anatomy, physiology and function of the eye.
2.   Familiarity with external eye disease.
3.   Familiarity with different stages of cataract - to diagnose cases.
4.   ICCE, ECCE and IOL - advantages/disadvantages.
5.   General pre-operative procedures.
-    Visual acuity
-    Pupillary reaction
-    Lacrimal passage testing
Shiotz tonometry
-    B.P.
-    Urinalysis
6.   Preliminary knowledge of anesthesia, including techniques and
complications.
7.   Knowledge about instruments and equipment in relation to their use,
maintenance and sterilization.
8.   Sterilization aid autoclaving - instrument, theater, etc.



* 82-
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
9.   Pharmacology - antibiotics, mydriatics, miotics and steroids.
10.  Normal cataract surgery (videos).
Skills (Hands-on Practice)
11.  Preoperative procedures (as in 5 above).
12.  Preparing the eye for surgery.
13.  Giving nerve blocks.
14.  Management of emergencies while giving the block.
15.  P lating the eye.
16. Lacrimal massage.
17.  Theater discipline.
18.  Trolley setup.
19.  Draping procedure.
20.  Assisting the surgeon during all steps.
21.  Anticipating ocular complications and developing reflexes to manage these.
22.  Sending instruments back for sterilization.
23.  Post-operative care.
-    general dressing procedures
-    dealing with complaints of the patient
-    ability to identify infection, hyphemia, hyr opyon, iris prolapse, etc.
-    post-operative instructions to patients
24.  Community Health.
-    Patient-Service Provider interaction
-    Motivation Techniques
-    Cultural Awareness
Assessment
Knowledge and skills assessment is to be documented by the student through the
maintenance of a record in a prescribed uniform manner.



- 83-
ANNEX 20
Page I of 2
INDIA
CATARACT BLINDNESS CONTROL PROJECT
MANAGEMENT TRAINNG
1.        The main components of the Management Training are as follows:
a) Team Building - emphasize on the teaching of teams, not merely indivduals.
b) A need-driven curriculum based on job requimnts - tailor the taining to
job requirements and performance.
c) Case-based training built upon field experience.
2.        Short courses for program orientation and appreciation of the cataract blindness
problem will be appropriate for senior officers, while more i -depth material on management
fiuctions and processes will be required for implementation staff. Management training as
an adjunct to ophthalmology taining for medical staff should be viewed as a neceuy
component.
3.        It is expected that 250 DBCS members and District Program Coordinatrs would
receive a one-week intensive managerial training course. The leadership course would
include both the "soft" aspects of management (e.g., team building and partnership) and the
"hard" aspects (e.g., fiance, operations analysis, etc.). It is likewise expected that 20
Program Officers on the State and National levels would be given a similar one-week
intensive managerial taining course.
4.        Finally, it is proposed that 275 staff, who will be handling the Managemen
Information System (MIS) aspect of the proposed project, be given a two-week intensive
training course on MIS (For more on the MIS, see inex 23).
5.        A detailed management curriculum will be developed for each category of staff.



- 84 -
ANNEX2
Page 2 of 2
ONE WEEK TRAINING OF STATE PROGRAMi OFFICERS
AND DISTRICT COORDINATORS BY STATE
DAY I
Module 1. New Approach for Control of Blindness, Problem of Blindness in India, History
of the National Program for the Control of Blindness (Strategies, Inputs,
Achievements, Strengths and Constraints), Highlights of New Approach.
Module 2. Introducing the District Blindness Control Society, the Need for a Decentralized
Approach and Philosophy of the DBCS, Composition, Strengths and Workings of
the DBCS, Case Studies.
Module 3. Role of the DBCS.
DAY2
Module 4. Needs Assessment, Estimating the Load, Current Achievements, Target Setting
and Target Estimation for Individual Districts, Logistics.
Module 5. Service Delivery, Case Finding, Case Studies from Videos/Slides/Audios,
Different Forms of Service Delivery, Information, Education and Communication
for Case Finding.
DAY 3
Module 6. Visit To An Eye Camp.
DAY4
Module 7. Resource Analysis, Situational Assessment, Infrastructure and Physical Facilities,
Manpower, Financial and Latent Resources, Priorities and Strategies.
DAY S
Module 8. District Plan of Action, Experience from Pilot District on Developing a Plan of
Action.
Module 9. Monitoring and Management Information System, MIS at the District Level,
Monitoring Implementation of the Program.
DAY6
Module 10.
Job Description of the State Program Officer and the District Blindness Control
Coordinator, Course Evaluation.



- 85-
ANNEX 21
INDIA
CATARACT BLINDNESS CONTROL PROJECT
OUTREACH AND
INFORMATION. EDUCATION AND COMMUNICATION (IEC) STRATEGY
TARGETr                                                 |  PmETTO                      NUT
SrRATGY_    AUDIBNCE                     OJECTIVES    ME             M          RESPONSIBJY              NjEED 
Image Buiding        Geneal Public        Inform about        T.V., radio,              GOI                Publicity
the Cataact          and print                                  Servkes
Ophthalmic           Problem              media               00l/Stes
Community          (Urban/Rural,                                                   Wotkshop/
Tribal,          Workshops,                                 Conference
NOOs               Women)            Conferences                                   Costs
with Ophthlmic
Gather support        surgeons
from Ophdtlmic
Commnity,           Workshops
NGOs and other        with NOOs
health
providers
Outreach,          AMre patients        Inform about:         Eye Care                State           Mobfle Units.
nd their                               Campaigns             Ophftalmic          Video Tapes
Demand             families with          cataract                                   Cells             and slides.
- eertion           special focus       problems and           Media                                     Messages
on women and          curabiliy         presenfion in             DBCS               based on
and           tribatrynote amWas                          community                                   content
calendar and         gatherig               NOOs              analysis and
Teachers and          places to            places                                   culture and
School              receive                                                      engia  of
Children             services          Folk Media                                  groups.
Contral
Multi-Sectomal        bases for          Temponry                                   Service with
paties, e.g.,        deciding on          outreach                                local groups.
education and          surgery             workers                                  Stipends to
tribal                                                                            vi31age
sub-plan          places to go       NGO outreach                                  wokers.
for grievance         camps                                     lustation
Pandwats,                                                                          cards. Fees
tribal        Screening routines    Ophthalmic and                             to NOOs on a
rsees                though house      Health Assisants                             tme-disonce
to house visits                                                   norm.
Ho_dh Educain          Pam-Medical        Familiarize them      Workshops                GOT               Education
Ophthalmic       with new program,                                                 mateials:
Assisants          approach and                                 Stames
(PMOAs)             standars                                                        Videos,
DBLt             Prints, Cards,
Multipose               Raise                                                          Etc.
Worker            conscusness
about Commity                                                     Triners
Media Officers          outeach
(MOO)



- 86-
ANNEX 22
Page 1 of 8
INDIA
CATARACT BLINDNESS CONTROL PROJECT
THE ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF
THE NATIONAL PROGRAM FOR THE CONTROL OF BLINDNESS
The National Blindness Control Board
4- .      At the National level is the National Blindness Control Board. All major
decisions concerned with the project will be taken up by the Board. Its major functions are
as follows:
a)   To initiate and formulate policies for the Control of Blindness.
b)   To prepare the annual plans for the implementation of the National Program for
the Control of Blindness (NPCB).
c)   To approve budgets and allocate resources to various units involved in program
implementation.
d)   Coordinate with the Departments concerned with Social Services and Economic
Development at the National level.
e)   Advise State governments on program implementation.
f)   Evaluate program objectives and achievements.
2.        The Board will consist of the following members:
a)   The Union Health Secretary                     -    Chairman
b)   Expenditure Secretary or his nominee           -    Member
c)   Director General of Health Services            -    Member
d)   National Project Director (NPCB)               -    Member-Secretary
e)   Advisor Ophthalmology (GOI)                    -    Member
f)   Joint Secr--t-ry (FA)                          -    Member
g)   Advisor (Health)-Planning Commission           -    Member
h)   Additional Project Director (DDG)              -    Member
i)   Representatives of Donor Agencies              -    Members
j)   Chairman of 3 leading NGOs in the
Control of Blindness Sector                    -    Member



- 87-
ANNEX 22
Page 2 of 8
The National Proiect Director
3.        Under the overall guidance and direction of the National Blindness Control
Board, the National Project Director would perform the following duties:
a)   Responsible for the overall implementation of the National Program for the
Control of the Blindness (NPCB).
b)   Coordinate the work of the Five Units involved in the National Project
Management Unit, namely:
i)   The Technical and Training Unit;
ii)  The Management Information System (MIS) Unit;
iii)  The Procurement Unit;
iv)  General Administration and Finance Unit; and
v)   Non-Technical Training and IEC Unit.
c)   Coordinate and supervise the following functions:
i)   Administration and fmance including procurement, through ICB and
LCB procedures of the World Bank, and distribution of vehicles,
supplies, consumables, furniture, equipment and maintenance of
equipment.
ii)  Actively coordinate with NGOs at a national level and serve as a co-
chairperson of the NGO consortium, and prepare the mechanisms for
involving both International and National NGOs.
iii)  The Management Information System.
iv)  Training and conducting workshops, preparing operational guidelines
and training materials:
d)   Organize and coordinate demand generation through different media activities
from a National and State perspective, drawing up a campaign capable of
decentalized implementation and covering the different stages of the NPCB.
e)   Act as Member Secretary of the National Blindness Control Board.



- 88-
ANNEX 22
Page 3 of 8
f)   Be responsible for coordination of activities with the concerned 'tate
Governments.
g)   Coordinate the training of Faculty members of Medical Colleges, Ophthalmic
Surgeons, Medical Officers of PHCs, Allied Personnel and Para-Medical
Ophthalmic Assistants expected to be trained under the program.
h)   Coordinate and monitor the numbers involved in IOL surgery considering that it
will be introduced for the first time in most meuical colleges and district
hospitals.
i)   Modify the curriculum for Post Graduates in Ophthalmology in Medical Colleges
in consultation with MCI.
j)   Monitor and concurrently evaluate the Quality of Services of the NPCB.
k)   Monitor the ;,erformance of the Regional Institute of Ophthalmology, the
Medical Colleges (56), the District Hospitals (250) and the District Blindness
Control Societies (250).
1)   Organize the construction program for the creation and upgrading of permanent
facilities.
The Technical Advisory Committee
4.        To strengthen the technical aspects of the program, there will be a Technical
Advisory Committee (TAC). The main functions of the TAC are:
a)   To evolve policy issues on the technical aspects of the project.
b)   To frame technical norms and standards to be followed during the
implementation of the project.
c)   To develop mechanisms for ensuring the quality of the services provided.
d)   To approve specifications of equipments and consumables to be procured during
the project.
e) To approve the training curriculum of various courses for ophtbalmic and
technical personnel.



- 89 -
ANNEX 22
Page 4 of 8
f)   To approve mechanisms of monitoring and evaluation of the technical aspects of
the project and give direction when changes appear called for on the basis of
information supplied.
5.        The members of the Technical Advisory Committee will include:
a)   Director General of Health Services            -    Chairperson
b)   Advisor Ophthalmology (GOI)                    -    Member
c)   Renowned Ophthalmologists (3-4)                -    Members
d)   Joint Lirectors (Project States)               -    Members
e)   Additional Project Director                    -    Member Secretary
The Project Coordination Committee
6.        To coordinate the various sectors (Private, NGOs, Government, Health, Social
Welfare, Education, Rural Development, Information and Broadcasting and Financial
Institutions, DANIDA, WHO, World Bank) involved in the National Program for the
Control of Blindness, there will be a Project Coordination Committee (PCC). The main
functions of the PCC are:
a)   To formulate the mechanisms for involvement of NGOs in the project.
b)   To examine the proposals for assistance to NGOs to expand their coverage and
approval thereof.
c)   To evolve the mechanisms for involvement of Private Ophthalmologists in the
project in specified areas.
d)   To approve the proposals by private ophthalmologists for grants-in-aid and seed
money to establish services in specified areas.
e)   To approve proposals for operational research.
7.        The members of the Project Coordination Committee will include:
a)   Project Director                               -    Chairman
b)   NGO Nominee                                    -    Vice Chairman
c)   World Bank Representative                      -    Member
d)   NGO Representative (2-3)                       -    Members
e)   DANIDA Representative                          -    Member
f)   WHO Representative                             -    Member
g)   General Secretary (AIOS)                       -    Member



- 90-
ANNEX 22
Page 5 of 8
h)   Additional Project Director                    -    Member
i)   Deputy Project Director (ADG)                  -    Member
j)   Deputy Project Director (DS)                   -    Member Secretary
The State Project Management Unit
8.         Supervising the project at the State level would be the State Project Management
Unit. It would consist of the State Project Officer, who will be the Project Manager and two
other officials, preferably with experience in public health, ophthalmology and public
administration, one of whom will be designated as the Assistant Director or Assistant Project
Manager. It would be responsible for monitoring the program at the state level,
consolidating and reviewing performarce and evaluation reports and ensuring efficiency and
quality control. It will coordinate training programs for ophthalmologists, Program
Coordinators and DBCS members. It will ensure proper maintenance of vehicles and
equipment and will identify the voluntary agencies and private hospitals to participate in the
project. It will conduct periodic audit of accounts and submit reports to State Review
Committee.
The State Emowered Committee
9.        Serving as the link between District and National units is the State Empowered
committee which would expedite the release of funds and decision-making at the State level.
The main functions of the commitee are:
a)   To review the implementation of the operational plans prepared by the district
units.
b)   To assess the strengths and weaknesses of each district unit and to take measures
so that the units become more effective.
c)   To consider proposals at the State level for NGO taking up the responsibility on
a location specific basis and setting the conditions to foster this.
d)   To consider and pass all schemes and projects assessed as viable by the State
Financil Committee, and to introduce mechanisms to enable the flow of funds.
e)   To coordinate the activities of the different govenmment agencies who support the
program.
f)   To monitor the extent of achievements against the targets set.



- 91-
mNEX 22
Page 6 of 8
g) To advise the district units on resource utilization and quality measures to
approve innovative schemes.
h)   To order and have conducted the internal audit of district units and to forward
the reports to the National Project Director.
10.       The Health Secretary will be the Chairman and the State Program Officer will be
the Member Secretary of the State Empowered Committee. The Committee will meet
quarterly (once every three months). The mimutes of the meeting will be circulated to the
National Project Director and the District Health and Medical Officers, and others directly
involved in the program.
11.       The State Empowered Committee will consist of the following members:
a)   Secretary of Health                           -    Chairman
b)   Secretary of Planning and Finance             -    Member
c)   Chaimn/MD of the State Fancial Corporation    -    Member
d)   Director of Health Services                   -    Member
e)   Director of Medical Education                 -    Member
f)   NGO Representatives (2)                       -    Members
g)   Ophthalmologists (2)                          -    Members
h)   Deputy Director of Statisfics                 -    Member
i)   Selected Chaiman/Coordinators of the DBCS     -    Members
j)   State Program Officer (Blindness Control)     -    Member Secretary
District Blindness Control Societ
12.       Distriet Blindness Control Societies will be established in all Districts. The main
responsibilities of the DBCS are:
a) Assess the magnitude of the blindness problem of the District, its beneficiaries,
infrastructures, resources, and develop and prepare operational plans for the
District.
b)  Implement the blindness control program in the District through logistics
management.
c)   Monitor and report on iputs, processes and outputs, on quality assnce and
evaluation of outco.aes on a quarterly basis to state ophthalmic cell using the
Management Information System.



- 92-
ANNEX 22
Page 7 of 8
d)   Prepare a list of voluntary agencies and private hospitals to involve them in
program activities.
e)   Coo, dnate activities between various departments and among the varied sectors
(Govemment/Private/NGOs).
t)   Undertake health educaton activities by using audio-visual and print material.
g)   Raise funds from voluntary organizatons, philanthropists, and other donors.
h) Monitor, control and account for proper funds, material, equipments received
from the Government and other sources.
i)   Frame rules and regulations for day-to-day execution of the society's activities
j)   Appoint and employ temporarily or permanently staff needed for Blindness
Control activities.
13.       DBCS will have the following members:
a)   Distric Colector - Chairman
b)   Chairman of Zilla Parisbad - Co-Chairman
c)   Chief District Medical Officer
d)   Superintendent of District Hospital
e)   District Ophthalmic Surgeon
f) District Blindness Control Coordinator - Member Secretary,
who will be appointed strictly on a contractual basis.
g) NGO Representative. In those districts where NGOs have performed more than
50% of cataract operations, an NGO representative will be designated as Vice
Chairman of the Society.
h)   Two prominent citizens of the District, one of whom could be Chairman of
IMA.
i)   District Education Officer
j)   Representatives of the people (MPS/Members of Legislative Assemblies -
MLAs).
k)   lntgrated Child Development Services (ICDS) Officer.
The District Program Coordinator
14.       Under the overall direction and supervision of the District Blindness Control
Society, the Distrit Program Coordinator will carry out the following duties:



-93-
ANNEX 22
Page 8 of 8
a)   Function as Member Secretary of the DBCS.
b)   Help plan, implement and monitor the program at the District level.
c)   Assist the Chairman DBCS in the receipt, disbursement, monitoring and
accounting of the funds, and maintain the accounts of the DBCS which will be
subject to external audit periodically.
d)   Be responsible for the preparation of detailed district level plans of action, their
implementation, monitoring aad evaluation.
e)   Coordinate with governmertal, non-governmental and private sectors as
appropriate in the organizwdon of outreach activities, including their monitoring,
reporting and accounting.
f)   OrganiLe and maintain a man-agement information system with regard to the
program at the district level with flow of information to the State and peripheral
levels with regard to inputs, outputs and outcomes of surgical and other services.
g)   Participate actively in IEC activity related to the District Program, aad develop
EEC materials based on local needs.
h)   Coordinate and facilitate the appropriate training programs for District level
staff.
i)   Assist in evaluation activities as necessary.
j)   Identify areas for operation research surveys and field studies and assist in these
activities.
k)   Be responsible for the logistical and supply support to the program ---- vehicles,
supplies, equipment and maintenance.
I)   Participate in resource justification.
m) Supervise district operations and the district staff.
n)   Provide and distribute the needed drugs, spectacles, laboratory and office
equipment and supplies, and healkh education materials.
o)   Submit periodical reports to the Central and State authorities.
p)   Carry out any other fiuction as detemined by the DBCS.



-94-
ANNEX 23
CATARACT BLINDNESS CONTROL PROJECT
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS
Below are the three layers envisioned for the Management Information System (MIS)
reporting levels:
a) At the top layer of reporting (MIS Level 3), it is proposed that the "blindness
module" of the existing Health Management Information System (HMIS) be enhanced to
provide additional data fields for reporting of the statistics necessary to monitor and evaluate
the ovemll progress toward the achievement of the project objectives. The HMIS was
developed for MOHFW and is maintained by the National Informatics Center (NIC) in New
Delhi. Using the HMIS, information on various health programs are currently being
reported from District level statistics cells via the NIC nationwide network (NICNET) to
State health authorities and the MOH Center. Utilization of this existing reporting network is
expected to be a more economical and efficient approach than creating a unique MIS network
to satisfy the summary level reporting requirements at the State Ophthalmic Cells and Center
level on the progress of the Blindness Control Project.
b) At the mid-layer of reporting (MIS Level 2), the emphasis for support will be for
the Program Coordinator position which spans the visibility of the project implementation
across an entire District. At this level, it is anticipated that a PC based computer system wiU
be installed (with funds provided by the project) to capture and process the information being
fed upwards from the PHCs, CHCs and District Hospitals. Aggregation of patient data and
logistic information at the District Program Coordinator's office will permit a focusing of
attention and resources within the District to optimize patient concentrations for effective
high volume cataract surgery operations. The Program Coordinator's office will also channel
the aggregated data and statistics from the PHCs, CHCs and District Hospitals for-reporting
upward to the State Ophthalmic Cells.
c) At the lowest level reporting (MIS Level 1), the capture and maintenance of
records relating the Blindness Control Project is expected to be largely a "paper-based"
system. At the PHC levels (and possibly at CHC and District Hospitals where computer
systems are not readily accessible), patient data would be maintained on simple, standardized
registers and "patient cards" maintained at these health centers for all identilied cataract
cases. At this lowest level of the MIS, a paper-based record keeping system is perfectly
adequate, in fact, even preferable to a computerized system since it obviates the need for
computer training and equipment at PHC level for maintaining a relatively small number of
records at any given time. Individual "patient cards" would be created when a cataract case
is identified, maintained until surgery can be arranged, kept active until follow up is
completed, and retired to the Program Coordinators office as a part of the project's
permanent records. On a predetermined periodic basis, a register of information will be
compiled from the patient cards and reported to the Program Coordinator's office.



- 95-
ANNIEX 24
IAPI
CATAWA:T BNDES COOL= PROJC
H&5IAN1-OF OUALXITY COIRQL
1. Trainivg            1. Supervision         1. Sample
erification
2. Quality             2. Prop
equipent               screening          2. Followup
3. Maintenace          3. Referral            3. Ixpet
system                  onitoring
4. Proscribed
proforas           4- flih qulity         4. concurrent
in camps               evaluation
l l Success Measured by Sight Restoration



- 96-
Page 1 of 2
CATARACT BLINDNESS CONTROL PROJECT
ELANB PERAIONSEEH
1.   Impact of upgrading District Hospital (DH), Primary Hea'"' Center (PHC) and
Community Health Center (CHC) on operations and productivity. Random selection
of hospitals, PHCs and CHCs for evaluation of results of project interventions (prior
to mid-term review).
a.    surgery volume (ICCE, ECCE/TOL)
b.    volume per ophthalmologist mnd per bed
c.    service quality as represented by vision restoration
d.   eqpnen status (tpes and in-service availability)
e.    ice of over-all hospital, PHC and CHr policies, procedures and
performance on ophftalmic unit opaions and productivity
f.    asessment of effecdveess of referral system
2.    Assessment of Training Impact:
a.    Assessnt of post-tainn skills competenies of NPCB-trained
ophtalmologists.
b.    Survey of ophtbalmology post-aaes to evaluate t  type and qualit  of
training received at medical scbools.
b.    Compare Health Assistants (Has) and Para-Medical Ophthalmic Astts
(PMOAs) measure         of visua acuity for patient triage with      of
ophthalmologist.
c.    Asess triage and surgery quality through evaluation of vision restoratini and
beneficiary satisfion among eye patients.



-97-
ANNES 25
Page 2 of 2
3.    Assessment and evaluation of Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
strategies to overcome barriers to cataract surgery among female, rural and tribal
populations:
a.    Assessment of public education (messages, techniques, campaigns)
b.    Role of aphakic motivators
c.    Assessment of hospital outreach activities (DHs and NGOs)
4.    Assessment of Government/NGO/Private Sector Collaboration
a.    W4Torkload distribution among Government, NGOs and the Private Sector
b.    NGO/Private Sector patient volume
c.    NGO/Privatt Sector view of cooperation between them and Government
5.    Assessment of benefits of operating earlier with ECCE/IOL while patient is in
unilateral status.
6.    Assessment of effectiveness of cost recovery schemes.
7.   Assessment of effectiveness of pilot program of providing seed money and financial
intermediation to private practitioners to set up practice in underserved areas.
8.    Epidemiological and Rapid Ethnographic Studies of Blindness.



-98-
ANIiX 26
Pape 1 of 6
Expenditure Accounts by Yea  - Base Costs
(Costs in Rs. Mions)
"@                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FoeIg
Ba  Cost in Caler Year                                 Excb_a
-  194    199S    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000   Tota        %   Amount
Ie_ Ce*s
Ciil Works                         31.6    89.4   147.3   108.7   57.9        -       -      434.9    15%       65.2
Equlnto  & Supplies                27.0   43.1    41.8   44.2    53.1    59.0    59.0        327.1    50%      163.5
Vehices                             12.0   22.7   4S.A   34.0         -       -       -      114.2    75%       85.6
Spetacles                           7.8    15.6    18.7   23.4    28.0   31.1    31.1        155.7       -         -
I.O.L.s                             10.0   20.1    24.1    30.1    36.1    40.1    40.1      200.7    75%      150.5
Tiningn&Wowk*hops                   6.3    10.2    17.0    12.6   10.3    10.3    8.1         74.8       -         -
M.edicd Supplies for Surgeon lTrining  9.6    19.3    15.2    17.6    14.3   15.8   15.8     107.6    50%       53.8
Publii Services                     10.7   33.5   41.8   20.2   20.2   20.2    20.2          166.9       -
Sup   to NOOs & Prvat Sectr        42.7   120.3   170.0  212.3  219.3   219.3   219.3    1,203.4         -        -
Sues & Opeional Rsearch             2.8     5.6    7.0    9.8       3.9    6.2      5.6       41.0
Couachull Services                  7.8    11.7    11.7    11.7    11.7    11.7    11.7       78.0       -        -
TOW ullnstas  Cost                 168.4   391.6   S40.1   524.6  454.8  413.8   411.0   2,904.3    18%        518.8
Rturnet C*Os
DrugsuSUtes                        27.4    54.9   65.9   82.3   98.8   109.8   109.8         548.8    50%      274.4
Civi Wors Maintenae                 0.2      1.2    2.9     4.2    4.9      4.9     4.9       23.3       -         -
E5gupmm Ma _mam                      1.7    5.2    8.3    11.3   14.4    18.0   21.5          80.2     5%       4.0
Vehicle Operadon & mwinme           1.6    3.8      8.4    11.8    11.8    11.8    11.8       60.9     5%       3.0
Salai of Addidona Staff            70.3   104.3   138.4   138.4   138.4   138.4   128.4      866.5                -
Misc        Operion Cosls           19.4    19.4    19.4    19.4    19.4   19.4   19.4       135.7     5%       6.8
Tta Recumnt Casb                   120.5   188.8  243.2   267.3  287.7   302.2   305.7   1,715.4    17%        288.2
Totd BASELINE COSTS                289.0   580.4  783.3   791.9  742.4   716.0  716.6   4,619.7    18%         807.0
Physic Conlingencies                15.0    32.5   44.0   40.2   34.6    31.7    31.6        229.6    35%       79.5
Priceondngnce                       11.6    57.8   124.5   159.3   179.8  207.2  244.2       984.4    34%      333.9
Totbl PROECT COSS                  315.6   610.7   951.8   991.4  956.9  954.9  992.4   5,833.6    21%   1,220.4
Tafs                               10.3   23.0   33.6   34.0   29.7   27.8    29.4           187.8                -
Pwoe  Ehaep                        64.6   136.6   193.4  207.2   192.1   208.0   218.6   1,220.4         -        -



- 99-
ANNEX 26
Page 2 of 6
Disbursement Accounts by Financiers
(ToW  Costs in US$ Million)
IBRD             GOI             TOTAL            For.   (Excl.       &
Amouit       %   Amount       %   Amount       %     Exch.   Taxes)    Taxes
Civil Works                        12.29  80.C%      3.07  20Q0%     15.36  10.6%      2.37     11.92     1.07
Equipment Maintenance               2.38  90.0%      0.26  10.0%      2.65   1.8%      0.15      2.37     0.13
Equipment & Supplies               11.45  90.0%      1.27  10.0%     12.72   8.8%      6.66      5.17     0.89
Vehicles                            3.64  90.0%      0.40  10.0%      4.05   2.8%      3.09      0.68     0.28
Support to NGOs & Private Sector   22.04  75.0%      7.60  25.0%     29.63  20.4%         -    29.63         -
Training Workshop Support           1.98  80.0%      0.50  20.0%      2.48   1.7%         -      2.48
Training, Workshops, Consultant Servi    0.84  80.0%  0.21  20.0%     1.05   0.7%         -      0.97     0.07
Contractual Services                2.33  80.0%      0.58  20.0%      2.91   2,0%         -      2.89     0.02
Drugs/Sutures                      19.85  90.0%      2.21  10.0%     22.05   15.2%     11.57     8.94     1.54
I.O.L.s                             7.30  90.0%      0.81   10.0%     8.11   5.6%      6.06      1.64     0.42
Spectacles                          4.78  90.0%      0.53  10.0%      5.31   3.7%         -      5.20     6.11
Vehicle Operation & Maintenace      1.50  75.0%      0.50  25.0%      1.99   1.4%      0.11      1.78     0.10
Publicity Services                  4.20  75.0%      1.40  25.0%      5.61   3.9%         -      5.61
Misc Office Expenses                3.14  75.0%      1.05  25.0%      4.18   2.9%      0.23      3.87     0.08
Salaries of Additional Staff       20.07  75.2%      6.61  24.8%     26.67  18.4%         -    26.67         -
Total                              117.78  81.4%     27.00  18.6%    144.78  100.0%    30.23    109.82     4.72



- 101-
ANNEX 26
Page 4 of 6
Project Components by Year
(Base Cost In Rs. Million)
DaMe Coat In Caendar Year
_    onaumta                        1994      1995      1096     i9P7      1098      1999      2000        TOtal
Quality Enhancemen.o & ixpansiov of Service Delivery  217.58    450.14    622.33    665.14    657.78    627.46    630.99   3,871.42
Human Resources Developutent                          12.2'    24.84      27.89    28.34     22.77     24.75     22.08       162.52
Promotion of Ouurach Activties & Public Awannss       22.47     59.18     92.01    61.04     30.40    .30.40     30.40       325.90
Intitudonal Development                               36.70     46.23     41.03     37.42    31.49     33.79     33.17       259.84
TotailASEbELIECOsrs                                   288.99    580.39    783.26    791.94    742.45    716.4)0   716.h5    4.619.68
Physical Contingencies                                14.9      32.52     44.04    40.16    .34.61     31.67     31.59       229.57
Price Condngencies                                    11.59     S1.81    124.48    159.26    179.85    207.21    244.15      984.35
tOW PROJECT COSTS                                     315.57    670.72    951 77    991.35   956.91    954.e9    992.39     5,833.60
Taxes                                                1W.30      23.04     33.63     33.99    29.67     27.84     29.37       187.R4
Poregn Exchange                                       64.55    136.62    19..39   207.19    192.09    207.96    218.60     i,220.39



- 100-
Page 3 of 6
Expenditure Accounts by Project Components
(Costs in US$ Million)
Quality     Promotion of
Enhancement    Outreacb
& Expansion    Activities &    Human                                     Physical
Categories                          of Serice       Public       Resources    Institutional               Contingencies
Delivery     Awareness    Development   Development        Total         %   Amount
Investment Costs
Civil Works                              13.34             -              -             -         13.34      10.0%      1.33
Equipment & Supplies                      9.20             -              -          0.84         10.03       9.9%      0.99
Vehicles                                  0.35          3.13              -          0.02          3.50      10.0%      0.35
Spectacles                                4.78             -              -             -          4.78      10.0%      0.48
I.O.L.s                                   6.16             -              -             -          6.16      10.0%      0.62
Training& Workshops                          -          0.15           1.39          0.76          229        8.4%      0.19
Medical Supplies for Surgeon rainiug        -             -           3.30             -          3.30      10.(%      0 33
Publicity Services                           -          5.12              -                        5.12      10.0%      0.51
Support to NGOs & Private Sector         36.91             -              -             -         36.91
Studies & Operaziomal Rcsearch               -             -              -           1.26         1.26       50%       0.06
Contractual Services                      2.39             -                            -          2.39      10.0%      0.24
Total Investme  Costs                    73.13           8.40          4.69           2.87        8909        5 7%       5.11
Recurrent Costa
Drugs/Sutures                            16.83             -              -             -         16.83      10.0%      1.68
Civil Works Maintenane                    0.72                            -             -          0.72       5.0%      0.04
Equipment Maintnance                      1.78             -           0.29          0.38          2.46       5.0%      0.12
Vehicle Operation&Maintenance             0.1S          1.60              -          0.09          1.87       5.0%      0.09
Salaries of Additional Staff             26.12             -              -          0 46         26.58
Misc Office Operation Costs                  -             -              -          4.16          4.16
TotdaRecurrentCosts                      45.63           1.60          0.29           5.10        52.62       3.7%       1.94
TotaiBASELINECOMSS                       118.76         10.00           4.99          7.97        141.71        0.tP1    7.04
Physical Contingencies                    5.44          0.92           0.48          0.20          7.04
Price Contingencies                      4.39           0.17           0.21          0.03         -3.97     (7.2%)      0.29
TotWIPROJE.TCOSTS                        119.80          11.09          5.68          8.20        144.78       5.1I%     7.33
Taxes                                     3.83          0.34           0.28          0.27          4.72       8.6%      0.40
Foreign Exchange                         24.60          2.86           2.03          0 75         30.23       9.0%      2.71



- 102 -
A.NN26
Page S of 6
(rTO  Costs in us$ Mon)
MA               Go!             TOTAL          For.   (KiL          &
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~B As   %  .To                              Tam
Q=ftlwce_ A& swmdae f8e vieeDdlvay                    97.48   St%      2232   19%       119O   83%   24.60    91.37        3.83
Humm Roascsw dopmeni                                   4.96   87%       0.72   13%        S.68    4%    2.03      3.37     0.28
PrOd of odeaAdvitus &  ubUcAwsd mA                    8.87   80%        222   20%       11.09    8%    2.86      7.89     0.34
iututm ioiDevesem                                      6.47   79%        1.73   21%       8X0    6%    0.7X       7.19     0.27
Todal Dubbrm_a                                         117.78   81%       27.00   19%     144.78  100%   30.23    109.82     4.72



- 103 -
AN=E 26
Page 6 of 6
Procurement Arrangments
Crotal Costs in US$ Milion)
ee ietod
C_mpetidve  Couptve        Local        Didret      Fame       ConuM
Bidding     Bidding     Shopping   Contrctg    Amoent         SellAl      Other    N.B.F.    Toal
DulSulure                          17.64        4.41                                                                           22.05
(15.8f)     (3.97)                                                                          (19.85)
qUipMn&  Suplbis                   10.18        2.54                      -            *                                -      12.72
(9.16)      (2.29                                                                          (11.45)
LO.L.S                             6.49         1.62                             -                 -          .         -
(5.84)      (1.46)                                                                          (7.30)
Valid..                            4.05          -                                     -           -               -            4.05
(3.64)                                                                                      (3.64
Spjdi                                -          5.31          -           -                        .          -                 5.31
(4.78)                                                                         (4.78)
civil Wa                             -          11.52         -                      3.84                     -                15.36
(9.22)                               (3.07)                                    (12.
Vele Opat  & Matm e                  -           -           1.00        I.            -           -          -                 1.99
(0.75)      (0.75)                                                 (1.50
MRoe Offl Exps                       -           -          2.09          -            -           -         2.09       -       4.18
(1.57)                                         (1.57)              (3.14)
Sgical Sravies by NGOO & Pdte                    -            -          4.85          -           -        24.53     0.25     29.63
(3.64)                            (18.40)             (22.04)
Equl,ent mn-                                     -            -          2.65                      -                    -       2.65
(2.38)                                                (2.38)
Pubdft Service                       -           -                       5.61          -            -         -                 5.61
(4.20)                                                (4.20)
CoAcU      we                        -           -            -          2.64          -           -          -         -       2.64
(2.11)                                                (2.11)
Tning W       op Suppot                          .                        -            -          2.48        -                 2.48
(1.98)                       (1.98)
Sabrs s of Adddo   Sf-                           -            -           -            -           -        26.67       -      26.67
(20.07)           (20.07)
Studies & Opnl  Rmerch               -           -            -           -            -            -        1.32       -       1.32
(1.06)            (1.06)
Tota                                 38.36       25.41         3.09        16.74        3.84        2.48      54.62     0.25     144.78
(34.52)     (21.71)      (2.32)      (13.08)      (3.07)       (1.98)    (41.09)           (117.78)
Note: Figures in parenhess are the respectve amounts financed by IDA



_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~259    _.6                 _.99    _.19  2.99  3.193   195t 5.95  2.196E    3l.616  4.196  1wl.5ilj>19.  619?
"I= . SSCTr E1M                  PA
4 CIVIL WORU SCONSTR ON           God
5~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ SuwpI.0flS6km 61w
62  lb
by AMLc6.A 6o
12?" A.w  LCU "f                  a*
IS_       kw C5.. ftok             16.ob
2t    Coa.stwutm. ftlckmdty a hruftd  Eu----    
21  C~~~m5k.5~~~. Pint. Aw~~~~Lh1wv II7)                             Z                IT
P * OM o6b                                                                                _____
rn-b,
-                                                  'Em~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



_                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.3194  3n.31904.3X,990  n. 39    2. 3999   1.nffl  4.3w19  1.31996   2.1196  3.19116   4.3198   3.31971  2.3191   .3,191   4.3191  3t.31s9
mm                                         Dod                       DIM_ _  -IIFMI  M  AIIIJI                     t1   A                    0  u 0                               0  t b       
2              &w                              10w                        I
28  sumY orSPELCTACLE  &w COS-SO                                                                                                           _ 
2                     - W-  "f Pm                S
9             A.WIWd(tC8                         3
*      comuum6oPe" 34Nwki 33)            18w                                                                                                c
32     Eklr&ksimd fN*Pwwd tr              2w
34j EQUIPPNG  MMEl & MOBILES ilt WM            ON4313003X8                                                                                                                   M      sBL
is      Nc,. Aw1 2w
38      3*ok"             rd so NM          4wl--&I   [1 1                            1t I    I0
71-  awki".1   %Amwoe"      fti-I3-                                                                                      .                                           i                           U
42   amuw    a im*,.O 94U.d0"c               6
44
4supPLY oF spmtIACLES & coNsu               is.. 1.6..                        .   .
19      Yr I3- A.wged o rOu R.x* ft3k           4w
48  1      o 3w. k                        82w
ftoft Om - namisia co"___                                                                                    _                                  ~I
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



law~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
.        O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
A.- PMMmassBfm0i    _ o_  _ _
go~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o~



-107-
ANNEX 27
Page 4 of 8
~~~~~TI~~~~~~~~~~~~~E  f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---------
~~~~~1-  I  I                                 _______~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I_L   _ T
l     _   in     It   r     lt    It          _ l        _        _  __ ; It_In_____I s IS!'1 _ _,
.    -  -   -  ,                c                _                  _   _ _,  __. _; _= _t _=  =  _  ,
i c __ _                                           ._  ii T_+_____!    =!
.   _ __                        I !  _It                             
--  i---                          ' ....                    | 1                               lil -
. ~     ~     ~      _____ I  ,-  .::                                s, s          
.~~~             ______ =___ I '      1                                         I8,1i1  F
, i                            __ _ _ _          -wxtj}j i
2 ~         ~          _ .                                                  __,I     X   ,1,II 
] a  a        X  ,!       !,  &a                                            I ,,a        ,a aaa
8-         - ,_____ i                                   !________ {'         I1  1   1  5i          '
_         I           __      __        ___                     _     S   
I  ___ _____ _    ___ _  --- ----



ID 11_~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~m I            I   I !A IS*   O I(tt) fjfJ S AF NS t   J IA S O  i    I |F I  ^IA UI J Af  J 1 O1    It D J FIAI li   S AI I    f  !I D fIFI FA
w~bC I    'o L~ i: Kzyt  agf't!N!    .*                                                                  iII  
, A
00
I
DSW. 4#2m ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mSgfs~                                                                        I-
Pl ow.4
Ode   Q  W -00                                                                  l _   V/////S///S,> 1_M                 __                      lF,$



INDIA - Blindness Contol
IDl Name                                                Duration  Scheduled Start Sheduld Finis    e         Resource Names
I T ROJECT EFFECTIVENESS                                       Od    7/17/94         7/17/94                 State Govts
2  Credit Signing                                            36d    4/14/94          615/94     1
4  CIVIL WORKS CONSTRUCTION                                 665d      616/94        12/30/96    2           State Govts
5     Survey to Finalize Sites                               12w      6/6/94        8/29/94                 State Govts
Steps to transfer land to Construction Agency         26w      8/30/94        3/6/95     5           State Govts
T Pinalize Category of work (LCB or Force Account)     2w     10/27/94        11/9/94    5FS+8w      State Govts
Construction - Priority I Projects                   495d    11/10/94         1O07/96    7
Allocation of works to Force Account               2w      11/10/94       11/23/94    7           State Govts
Construction by Force Account                      78w      3/7/95         9/2/96     9,6         PWD
Electrification & Furnish Force Account Sites      12w     6/4/96         8/26/96    1OFF-lw      PWD
Prepare tenders for LCB works                      12w     11/10/94        2/6/95                 State Govts
Issue tenders for LCB works                        4w      2/7/95          3/6/95     12          State Govts
Receive bids for LCB works                          Od     3/6/95          3/6/95     13          State Govts
Evaluate bids for LCB works                        3w      3Mt95          3/27/95     14          State Govts
Approval of LCB awards                             1w      3/28/95         4/3/95     15          WBank
Award LCB contracts                                 1w     4/4/95         4/10/95     16          State Govts
Ctn.truction Period                               78w      4/11/95        1O07/96     17,6        Contractors
Electrification and Furnishing Provisions         12w      7/9196         9/30/96     18FF-lw     Contractors
20        Completion of Priority I Projects                   Od    1O07/96          1Ot7196    10,18                                            o
Construction - Priority 11 Projects                  495d      2(7195        12/30/96
Construction by Force Account (Prioity 11)         52w     10/3/95        9/30/96    lOSS+30ew  PWD
Electrification & Furnish Force Account Sites      12w     7/2/96         9/23/96     22FF-lw     PWD
Prepare tenders for LCB works (Priority 11)        12w     2/7195          5/1195     12          State Govts
25        Issue tenders for LCB works (Priority II)           4w      5/2/95         5/29/95    24          State Govts
Receive bids for LCB works (Priority II)            Od    5/29/95         5/29/95    25
Evaluate bids for LCB works (Priority II)          3w      5/30/95        6/19/95     26          State Govts
Approval of LCB awards                             1w      6/20/95        6/26/95     27          WBank
Award LCB contracts                                 1w     6/27/95         7/3/95     28          State Govts
Construction Period (Priority II)                 78w      7/4/95         12/30/96    29,6        Contractors
Completion of Priority 11 Projects                  Od    12/30/96        12/30/96    22,30
Electrification and Furnishing Provisions          12w     10/1/96        12/23/96    30FF-lw     Contractors
-33
34 EQUIPPING FIXED & MOBILE SITES                           680d     7/18/94         2/28/97    1
Needs Assessmnent                                     12w     7/18/94        10/11/94    1           State Govts
Finalize Specifications for all Equipment Items        8w     7/18/94         9/12/94    35SS       ,NPM Cell                         >
Exhibition of Equipment to Assess quality              8w     9/13/94         11/8/94    36          NPM Cell                        z Z
Invitiation of tenders to Pre-Qualified Vendors        4w      11/9/94        12/8/94    37          NPM Cell         _              Z
Page 1                                                                        o X
oo 0



INDIA - Blindness Control
TI  Name                                                 Duration  Scheduled Start Scheduled Fuiis  Predecessors Resource Names
W     TFxing Vendors and Placing Orders                       12W     1219194          373/95     38          NPM Cell
Procurement & Distribution                            104w      3/6/95         2/28/97    39           NPM Cell
4r    All Equipment in Place                                   Od      2/28/97        2/28/97     35,40
42-   Inviting Tenders for Maintenance of Equipment           16w      3/6/95         6/23/95     39          State Govts
Award Maintenance Contracts                            16w     6126/95        10113/95    42           Stale Govts
SUPPLY OF SPECTACLES & CONSUMABLtES                      1860d     7/18/94         9/7/01
46     Yr 1 - Assessment of District Requirements              4w     7/18/94         8/12/94     1           DCBS
Tr    Finalize Consumable list & Specifications               12w     7/18/94         10/11/94    46SS        DGS&D
Tender Invitations                                      8w     10/12/94        12/8/94    47           DGS&D
Award and Placement of Orders                          12w     12/9/94         3/3195     48           DGS&D
Procurement & Distribution                             52w      316/95         311/96     49           State Govts
Yr 2 - Assessment of District Rcquirements              4w     6/26/95         7/21/95    SOFS-36w    DCBS
Finalize Consumable list & Specifications              12w     6/26/95         9/15/95    5ISS         DOS&D
53 Tender Invitations                                      8W      9/18/95        11/10/95    52          DGS&D
Award and Placment of Orders                           12w     11/13/95        2/2/96     53           DGS&D
Procurement & Distribution                             52w      2/5196         1/31/97    54           State Govts
Yr 3 - Assessment of District Requirements              4w     5/27/96         6/21/96    55FS-36w    DCBS
Finalize Consumable list & Specifications              12w     5/27/96         8/16/96    56SS         DGS&D
Tender Invitations                                      8w     8119196        10/11/96    57           DGS&D
59     Award and Placement of Orders                          12w     10/14/96         1/3/97     58          DGS&D                               0
-W      Procurement & Distribution                             52w      1/6/97         1/2/98     59           State Govts
761    Yr 4 - Assessment of District Requirements              4w     4/28/97         5/23/97     60FS-36w    DCBS
61-   Finalize Consumable list & Specifications               12w     4/28/97         7(18/97     61SS        DGS&D
-W     Tender Invitations                                       8w     7/21/97         9/12/97    62           DGS&D
64     Award and Placement of Orders                          12w      9/15/97        12/5/97     63          DGS&D
-07    Procurement & Distribution                              52w     12/18/97        12/4/98    64           State Govts
-W      Yr 5 - Assessment of District Requirements              4w     3/30/98         4/24/98    65FS-36w    DCBS
Cr     Fmalize Consumable list & Specifications               12w      3/30/98        6/19198     66SS        DGS&D
-W     Tender Invitations                                       8w     6/22/98         8/14/98    67           DGS&D
69     Award and Placement of Orders                          12w      8/17/98        11/6/98     68          DGS&D
7W      Procurement & Distribution                             52w     11/9/98         11/5199    69           State Govts
7T-   Yr 6 - Assessment of District Requirements               4w      3/1/99         3/26/99     70FS-36w    DCBS
-72'-   Finalize Consumable list & Specifications              12w      3/1/99         5/21/99    7ISS         DGS&D
73-   Tender Invitations                                       8w      5/24199        7/16/99     72          DGS&D
Award and Placement of Orders                          12w     7/19/99         1018199    73           DGS&D                           :
Procurement & Distribution                             52w     10/11/99        10/6/00    74           State Govis                   0  Z
Yr 7- Assessment of District Re!uirLments               4w      1/31/00        2/25/00    75FS-36w    DCBS
Page 2         ..
oo 



INDIA - Blindness Contol
ID  Name                                                Duration  Scheduled Start Scheduled Finis Predecessors I Resource Names
77J    Finalize Consumable list & Specifications             12W      13100         4721100    7            DGS&D
W      Tender Invitations                                    8w      4/24/00        6/16/00    77          DGS&D
7F     Award and Placement of Orders                        12w      6/19/00        9/8/00     78          DGS&D
-W    Procurement & Distribution                           52w      9/11/00        9/7/01     79          State Govts
STAFF RECRUITMENT & RtEDEPLOYMENT                          402d    10t30/93         6/1/95
1C    EFC & Cabinet Clearance Secured                         Od    10/30/93       10/36/93                NPM Cell
1T     Sanction Additional staff by GOI to State              4w      11/1/93       11/30/93    83          NPM Cell
137    Sanction Additional staff at State Level             12w      12/1/93        2/25/94    84          State Govts
-W     Advertise for Filling new Posts                       12w      1/6/94         4/1/94     84FS+5w    State Govts
87    Selection of New Candidtates                          12w      4/4/94         6/27/94    86,85       State Govts
Posting of new recruits                              12w     612894          9/21194    87          State Govts
W      Identification of Surgeons not doing Surgery           4w     7/18/94         8112/94    1           State Govts
W     Transfer of required staff to new positions           12w      8/24/94       11/17/94    88FS-4w,89  State Govts
-W     New & Relocated Staff in Place                         Od      6/1/95         6/1/95     90          State Govts
IMPROVE SERVICES THRU TRAINING                          620d    7/18194         12/6/96
9      Course Plaming                                       12w      7/18/94       10/11/94    1           NPM Cell
-W     Course Confirmation from training Institutes           8w    10/12/94         12/8/94    94          Trng Institutes
-W      Confirm from States on Trainee accomodaton           12w    10/12/94         1/6/95     94          State Govts
W6    Develop Curiculm & Training Materia                   52w      12/9/94        12/8/95    95          NPM Cell
-W     Select & Notify Trainees for Trng Cycle 1              4w     10/16/95       11/13/95    99SP-4w     State Govts
W      Conduct Training Cycle I                             52w    12/11/95         12/6/96    97,40SS+24 Trng Institutes
Page 3 



I~~~~~~ L
I~~~~~ ' I I
IX~ ~ I I  I  !
- gTI~~~~~~~



ANNEX 28
Page 2 of 2
l________________________  I              SA310CREAT14 n OF  -           MECIIANSM             |                 PA#tIICIPANTS                 |             ST*ATEWWmECTm
3. aW.__ga                   a, Ssvm  Mm                      I. Tak --,  1,    _pkb*nd*, tr***               1. Pr-r d  ui
L Tik     , imntu *As. ueNteb                  2 Sap-bImo, sE memomm. r , tpI*.Id
.    _IhIg. MIS Wsdk  pe*IIbedth sdak 
3. Tk u        o,    ,       I Speiles MIS      3. SupmAtmbevig, et _bWa ol ImISall, htun     l
~~~~~spdh. __k~d~  Mah*h edusRdi C_Ips ic ci MOs inid pineba  .*                                           and
ga8-  Cal RoomyT
L Mealning Mad EsimIm            4. Teama Veined to RWM Asmmitmells*             4. Am 1d m.hdagy AusumMto   _ u_Al
S. Tuk Mmw.   n   . as, qm umtint tedkb        5. fhemu   w cy Iw lo pn)  mit
_             _         _        _         _         _        _         _       -       a        d       -, 
l-



- 114 -
ANN-EX 29
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
CATARACT BLINDNESS CONTROL PROJECT
PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION
(ESSENTIAL BENCHI lARKS)
Provider (Supplv) Side                Beneficiarv (Demand) Side
Impact of Trainirng:
* Assess skills and number of           Independent Beneficiary
ophthalmologists trained through the    Assessment/Audit:
project.
* Rate of case detection and accurate          * Demographics of operated
diagnosis by Para-Medical Ophthalmic           patients.
Assistants (PMOA).                             * Post-operative visual
Technical Indicators:                                acuity (sight restoration
* Rates of ECCE/IOL use in government         results).
and NGO/private sectors.
* Unilateral cases treated with ECCE/IOL.      * Appropriateness of patient
* Rate of patient satisfaction by treatment   triage and follow-up.
type.
* Rate of unilateral and bilateral cases      * Socio-economic
treated.                                       assessment from patient
* Complication rate.                          perspective.
Facility ltilization:
* Assess patient volume and utilization of    * Patient satisfaction with
facilities in tribal and remote areas and     provider system.
selected cluster of non-tribal districts.
Camp Activities:                                     * Prevalence rate.
* Assess number and frequency of camps,
patient volume and utilization of resources.   * Demand generation.
NGO/Private Sector Involvement:
* Measure NGO/Private sector patient    IEC:
volume.
* GovernmenttNGO/Private Sector               * General community
Cooperation as viewed by NGO/Private          awareness of cataract and
Sectors providers.                            surgical solution. (Compare
* Workload distribution between               urban vs. rural vs. tribal
government and NGO sector.                    areas).
No: Evaluation efforts should be designed using scientific methodology with assessments
conducted by parties organizationally INDEPENDENTLY from those whose
performance is being evaluated.



- 115 -ANE 2
Page 2 of 3
Evaluation of Facility Utilization
The Six-Monthly Review will include:
Facility Location and Types:
Number of patients examined.
Percentage of patients diagnosed with cataract by visual acuity.
Percentage of patients diagnosed where surgery is indicated by visual acuity.
Percentage of patients accepting surgery by viWal acuity.
Number of patients operated by visual acuity (ICCE, ECCE/IOL).
Surgical Volume (Per Surgical Team):
ICCE
ECCE/IOL
Utizaton of Bed Capacity:
Average Length of Hospital Stay:
Sight Restoration Results (Post Opertive):



- 116-                              29
Page 3 of 3
Camp Evaluation
Camp Location and Type:
Camp Organzers and Pares:
Number and Mix of Cases Screened/Examined By Visual Acuity:
Percentage of cases diagnosed with cataract by visual acuity.
Percentage of diagnosed cases where surgery is indicated by visual acuity.
Percentage of patients accepting surgery/operated by visual acuity.
Surgical Volume Per Surgical Team (For Each Surgeon):
Average Length of Camp Post-Operative Stay:
Sight Restoration Results (Post Operadve):



- 117 -
ANNEX30
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
CATARACT BLINDNESS CONTROL PROJECT
DATA COLLECTION
1.          A Blind register would be designed and sandardized. This would be
maintained for each PHC, CHC, District, urban, rural, tnbal and remote area by the
Paramedic Ophthalmic Assistant. Standard case sheets, follow-up formats, referral slips and
reporting proformas would be developed after pre-tesig and used to facilitate timely,
uniform and need-based iformation flow.
2.          The District Blindness Control Coordinator (DBCC) and the District
Ophthalmic Surgeon (DOS) would be the officials responsible for supervising the activities
within the District. The State Project Officer (SPO) would be responsible for monitoring the
activities at the State level. An Management Information System (MIS) Unit at the Central
level would coordinate the monitoring and evaluation of the project.
3.          A computerized MIS would be developed, all the way to the District levels,
and linked to the National Health Management nformation System (NHMIS) network of the
National Informatics Center (NIC).
4.          Anmnal beneficiary analysis would be performed using random samples of
beneficiaries in each state in the months of April to May to measure patient satisfaction.
5.          A baseline, two mid-term and an endlie epidemiological surveys would be
undertaken to evaluate the program by an independent expert group consistig of
ophthalmologists, epidemiologists and social scientists. The evaluation would include the
redirection of vision, qualitative aspects of surgery, patient satisfaction, reasons for
underutilization, prevalence rates and other aspects of the program services. Economic
evaluation of the project would also be undertaken.
6.          Review meetings of concned District officials would be held monthly, and
quarterly at the State levels. These would then be forwarded to the National Program for the
Control of Blindness meetings, thus creating an upward feedback mechanism.
7.          Below is a table of indicators and their foci for the task of data coLection.



- 118 -
ANNEX 30
Page 2 of 2
INDICATORS                                   FOCI
Development  Central and State Cells/Committees/Boards in position; DBCS
registered and functional; percentage of PHCs, CHCs, DMUs, DHs,
and Medical Colleges equipped, of DMUs and DBCS with vehicles and
of Operating Theaters, Wards, Dark Rooms, etc., completed.
Manpower    Number of trained personnel by category and facility; percentages of
and       new positions filled up, of vacancy by positions, of Ophthalmic
Training    Surgeons (OS) redeployed on surgical positions, of DBCC in position
and of DBCC trained.
Performance   Number of cataract operations in a District/State; percentage of targets
achieved by the District/State and of villages covered for screening of
cataract cases by talukas/districts; number and percentage of
achievement by facility (DMU/CMU/DH/MC); operation per lakh
population in District/State; performance rates by sex/SC-ST/tribal
areas; proportion of operations performed by Government/NGO and
Private sectors; rankings of Districts in the State (using number and
percentage of achievement by facility in DMU/CMU/DH/MC) and of
States among themselves based on performance.
Beneficiary    Percentage of beneficiaries satisfied and of distribution of problems
Assessment   encountered in awaiting services; reasons for not availing of existing
services; knowledge about services available; sources of existing
knowledge about cataracts; number of beneficiaries whose sight has
been restored (self-assessment by beneficiary).
Financial    Percentage of budget utilized per year and of DBCS fully utilizing their
budget; cost of operation by facility (statewide); correlation between
cost and performance.
Impact     Prevalence of blindness (Baseline); prevalence of blindness (Mid-
Evaluation    Tenm/Endline); percentage of decline of prevalence; districts free from
backlog of cataract; classification/reclassification of districts on the
basis of prevalence; percentage of prevalence change in tribal districts.
Efficiency    Operations per operating surgeon per year by District/State; operations
and       per bed per year by District/State; average operations per mobile camp
Quality     by district; beds occupancy ratio; percentage of population/villages fully
screened and of villages free of cataract backlog; age distribution of
cataract operations; distribution of operations by unilateral/bilateral
cases; percentages of turnover during follow-up, of post-operative
refractions performed/glasses provided, of cases encountering
complications/successes (details) and of total failures in sight restoration
(medical assessment).



- 119 -
ANNEX 31
Page I of 3
INDIA
CATARACT BLINDNESS PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
Tentative          Staff and                             Staff
FY    Semester    Activities          Skills Required                       Weeks
FY95 (1)           Project Launch.    Task Manager, Architects,              10
Ophthalmologists, Training Specialist,
Management or Organizational
Development (OD) Specialists.
FY95 (2)           Supervision'       Task Manager, Anthropologists with    20
Staff Allocation,    knowledge of Rapid Assessment (RAP)
Beneficiary        methods, Architects, Ophthalmologists,
Assessment (BA),  MIS Specialists, Public Health
Training,          Specialists.
Epidemiological
surveys.
FY96 (1)           Supervision/Focus   Task Manager, Architects,             15
Groups with State   Anthropologists with knowledge of RAP
Project Officers,    methods, Implementation Specialists,
District Coordinat-  OD Specialists, Ophthalmologists,
ors, NGOs and      Training Specialists.
Ophthalmologists.
FY96 (2)           Biennial Review    Task Manager, Ophthalmologists,       24
Training Specialists, Anthropologists,
IEC Specialists, Architects,
MIS Specialists, Public Health
Specialists.
U Refers to overall review of procurement, disbursement and infrastructures with
concenation on the specified areas.



- 120 -
ANNES 31
Page 2 of 3
Tentative          Staff and                             Staff
FY    Semester    Actives             Skills Iiud                           Wee
FY97 (1)           Supervision/Focus  Task Manager, Architects,             10
Groups with        Public Health Specialists,
Ophthalmic        Anthropologists,
Assistants/       Training Specialists.
Review of BA.
FY97 (2)           Supervision/Review  Task Manager, Architects,            15
of utilization of  Management Specialists, MIS
facilities,        Specialists, Ophthalmologists,
training at Medical  Public Health Specialists.
Colleges, role of
NGOs and private
practitioners and
progress on
Cost Recovery.
FY98 (1)           Supervision/Review  Task Manager, Ophthalmologists,      10
of ECCE/10L       Anthropologists, Training
progress, training   Specialists.
and results of BA
in tribal areas.
FY98 (2)           Biennial Review    Task Manager, Ophthalmologists,       24
Traimng Specialists, Anthopologists,
IEC Specialists, Architects,
MIS Specialist, Public Health
Specialist.
FY99 (1)           Supervision of     Task Manager, EEC Specialists,        10
Outreach and      Public Health Specialists,
Information,       Ophthalmologists.
Education and
Communication
(M components
and Operational
Research.



- 121 -
ANNEX 31
Page 3 of 3
Tentative         Staff and                              Staff
FY    Semester    Activities          Skills Reuired                        Weeks
FY99 (2)           Supervision of     Task Manager, Architects, Management  5
effectiveness of   Specialists, Ophthalmologists.
service delivery
models and NGO
participation.
FY00 (1)           Supervision:       Task Manager, Ophthalmologists,       10
Review of          Public Health Specialists,
implementation    Anthropologists, Management Specialists,
of modifications    Architects, Auditors.
recommended
during the Mid-
Term Review.
FY00 (2)           Biennial Review    Task Manager, Ophthalmologists,       24
Training Specialists, Anthropologists,
JEC Specialists, Architects,
MIS Specialists, Public Health
Specialists.
FYO1 (1)           Supervision of     Task Manager, Economists,             10
Progress on Cost   Ophthalmologists, Anthropologists,
Recovery and      Women In Development (WID)
ECCEIIOL services specialists.
in tribal areas.
FY01 (2)           Supervision of     Task Manager, Ophthalmologists,       15
padent             Iplementation Specialists,
satisfaction,     Public Health Specialists,
utlization of      Social Markeing Specialists.
facilities and
the Terms of
Reference (TOR)
for the
epidemiological
sUrVeY.



- 122 -
ANNE3X2
iDA JsUlYear           SeetrCumulatie            SeeserCmuatv
SUS MiLion
FY95
st (Ju194 - Dec 94)             4.54         4.54         5.00         5.00
2nd (Jan 9S - Jan 95)           4.54         9.08         2.68         7.68
FY96
Ist (Jul 95 - Dec 95)           9.10        18.18         6.61        14.29
2nd (Jan 96 - Jun 96)           9.10        27.28         6.61        20.89
FY97
Ist (u 96 - Dec 96)            12.22        39.50         9.18        30.07
2nd(Jan97-Jun97)               12.22        51.71         9.18        39.26
FY98
Ist (Jul97 - Dec 97)           12.32        64.03         8.99        48.24
2nd (Jan 98- Jun 98)           12.32        76.35         8.99        57.23
FY99
lot (Jul 98 - Dec 98)          11.52        87.86         9.35        66.59
2nd (Jan 99 - Jun 99)          11.52        99.38         9.35        75.94
FY20OO
lst (Jul 99 - Dec 99)          11.25       110.63         8.88        84.82
2nd(Jan2000-Jun2000)           11.25       121.88         8.88        93.69
FY2001
lt (Jul 2000 - Dec 2000)      11.45       133.33         9.05.      102.74
2nd (Jan 2001 - Jun 2001)      11.45       144.78         9.05       111.78
FY200
1st (Jul 2001- Dec 2001)                   144.78         6.00       117.78



- 123 -
AME 33
8mwmm
CAIARAa B1l,SS S:QNTROLSROIECI
MumsaCuatP Unit*em U
Bducatb (   iil orks,
Cole.e qopm.         Hat
Kindiutesofeeam
SW I  I
M iaC Waft,l
Me"t                   Dbnd
of                   I~~~~fa
CI                Hum        Haft
MONOl Unit         Caum       caasa



- 124 -
Annex 34
Page 1 of 5
INDIA
CATARACT BUNDNESS CONTROL PROJECT
IN THE SEVEN PROJECT STATES
Selected Documents in Project Files
A. Project Proposals and Plans
A-1.     Government of India. Project Proposal for the World Bank for Control of
Blindness in the States of Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh,
Orissa, Rajastfan, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. Ministry of Health and Family
Welfare, New Delhi.
A-2.     Government of India. World Bank Project on the Control of Blindness
(ndia):Addendum to Project Proposal. Ministry of Health and Family Welfare,
New Delhi.
A-3.     Government of Madhya Pradesh. Blindness Control Project in Madhya Pradesh:
Project Profile for World Bank Assistance. Health and Family Welfare
Department, BHOPAL, January 1993.
A4.      Goverment of Andhra Pradesh. Project Report on Control of Blindness in
Andhra Pradesh. Health, Medical and Family Welfare Department.
A-S.     Government of Tamil Nadu. Project Proposal on National Programme for
Control of Blindness (NPCB) with World Bank Aid in Tamil Nadu.
A-6.     Government of Tamil Nadu. Project Report on National Program for Control of
Blindness (NPCB) with World Bank Aid in Tamil Nadu.
A-7.     Govermnent of Tamil Nadu. Revised Project Report on Nauional Program for
Control of Blindness (NPCB) with World Bank Aid in Tamil Nadu. February
1993.
A-8.     Government of Orissa. Draft Proposal for Control of Cataract Blindness in
Orissa. Health and Family Welfare Department.
A-9.     Goverment of Orssa. Addendum to World Bank Draft Proposal on Control of
Cataract Blindess in Orissa. Department of Health and Family Welfare.
A-10.     Government of Orissa. Control of Cataract Blindness (Orissa): A World Bank
Project Proposal.



- 125 -
AD=L  i
Page 2 of 5
A-11.     Government of Orissa. Salient Features of the Proposal for the Control of
Cataract Blindness in Orissa. Health and Family Welfare Department, October
1992.
A-12.     Govermment of Uttar Pradesh. National Program for Control of Blindness in
Uttar Pradesh, Project Proposal for World Bank Support. Prepared in
consultation with the Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow.
A-13.     Government of Uttar Pradesh. National Program for Control of Blindness in
Uttar Pradesh: Additional Information to Project Proposal for World Bank
Support. Prepared in consultation with the Indian Institute of Management,
Lucknow.
A-14.     Government of Maharashtra. Proposal for World Bank Assisted Blindness
Control troject (1993-2003).
A-15.     Government of Maharashtra. Blindness Control Project for World Bank
Assistance (1993-2000): A Modified Project Request. The Directorate of Health
Services, February, 1993.
A-16.     Govermnent of Maharashtra. State Ophtalmology Cell Proposal for
Development of Comprehensive and Accessible Eye Care Services for World
Bank Assistance.
A-17.     Government of Rajasthan. Proposal for World Bank Assisted Project on Control
of Blindness in the State of Rajasthan. Medical Health and Family Welfare
Department, Jaipur.
B. Project Pparations Studies
B-1.     Govermment of India. National Programme for the Control of Blindness in
India: Guidelines for Organising Eye Camps, sponsored by Voluntary and Social
Organizations/Institutions and Hospitals and for Grants for Financial Assisne
(Revised 1987, 1993). Directorate General of Health Services, Ministry of
Health and Family Welfare, New Delhi.
B-2.     Government of India. National Programme for Control of Blindness: Draft
Report of Policy Issues, Norms & Standards Adopted Under World Bank
Project. Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, New Delhi.
B-3.     Government of India. GOI Budget Released and Expendittue Reported.
(Report)



- 126 -
Anx 34
Page 3 of 5
BE4.     Kumar, Raj et al. Manual for the District Blindss Control SoAem; Developed
by the DANIDA Support Unit for the National Programme for Cottrul of
Blindness.
B-S.     Khairabad Eye Hospital. National Program for Prevention of Blindness: A
Project by the Xharabad Eye Hospital, Kanpur and Its Thee Rural Centres, For
Financial Assistance from the World Bank.
B-6.     National Institutes of Health. Model-Based Workload Projections for the Seven
Project States (Report).
B-7.     Pararajasegarm, R. NGO/Private Sector Participation: Proposed Modalities.
Programe for the Prevention of Blindness, WHO, 1993.
B-8.     Goverment of Madhya Pradesh. Socio-Economic Dimension of Blindness in
Madhya Pradesh. Health and Family Welfare Department, BHOPAL, January
1993.
B-9.     Government of Madhya Pradesh. Action Plan for the Implementation of the
Blindness Control Programme in the Tribal Areas of Madhya Pradesh: A Project
Profile for World Bank Assistance. Health and Family Welfare Department,
BHOPAL, June 1993.
B-10.     Governmeint of Andbra Prafesh. Beneficiary Survey Report' on Blindness in
Andhra Pradesh. Health, Medical and Family Welfare Department.
B-11.     Government of Andhra Pradesh. Report on Health Infrasture Facilities in
Andhra Pradesh. Health, Medical and Family Welfare Department.
B-12.     Goverment of Orissa. Action Plan for Tribal Disticts on Control of Cataract
Blindness in Orissa: A Supplement to World Bank Draft Proposal. Department
of Health and Famiy Welfare.
B-13.     Government of India. National Technical Workshop for Project Preparation for
Blindness Control in India, 19th to 21st October, 1992.
B-14.     Government of India. Minutes of the National Consensus Development
Workshop on Technical Norms in High Volume Cataract Surgery Held on
November 20 - 21, 1992.
1/ Severa States incorporated their Beneficiary Assessmet Reports into their Project
ProPOSals.



- 127 -
Annex 34
Page 4 of 5
B-15.     Government of India. Training Guidelines Developed During Training
Workshop Conducted with Project Officials, Private Ophthalmologists and
NGOs, Aravind Eye Hospital, Madurai, Tamil Nadu, November 1992.
B-16.     Gupta, A.K. Cataract Surgery Survey in India. All India Ophthalmological
Society, 1993.
C. General Reports and Studies
C-1.     Government of India. Present Status of National Programme for Control of
Blindness (NPCB) 1992. Ophthalmology Section, Directorate General of Health
Services, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, New Delhi.
C-2.     DANIDA. Mid-Term Review of Phase II of the DANIDA's Support to the
National Programme for Control of Blindness in India. DANIDA Reference No.
104 Ind. 79, May 1993.
C-3.     WHO. Suggested Outlines for the Formulation and Management of Nadonal
Programmes for the Prevention of Blindness. (Undated).
C4.      Mohan, Madan. "Survey of Blindness in India (1986-89) - Summary of
Results." Advisory Ophthalmology, GOI, 1989.
C-5.     Dey, A.S. The National Program for Control of Blindness: A Situational
Analysis: A Study sponsored by DANIDA. 1990.
C-6.     Government of Tamil Nadu. Project Report on National Programme for Control
of Blindness (World Bank Aid): Budget Abstract.
C-7.     Helen Keller International (HKI) Incorporated. To Restore Sight: The Global
Conquest of Cataract Blindness. New York.
C-8.     Javitt, J.C. Health Sector Priorities Review: Cataract by The World Bank.
HSPR-15, August 1991.
C-9.     Lawrence, M.G. and Seddon, J.M. "Steering Clear of Cataracts." Harvard
Health Letter, Vol. 18, No. 5, April 1993, pp. 1-3.
C-10.     Thulasiraj, R.D. Why Don't Patients Seek Cataract Surgery and How They Can
be Motivated (Social Marketing to Reduce Cataract Blindness in India). Aravind
Eye Hospital, Madurai.
C-11.     Ellwein, L.B. et al. "The Cost Effectiveness of Strategies to Reduce Barriers to
Cataract Surgery." International Ophthalmology, 15: 175-183, 1991.



- 128 -
Annex 34
Page 5 of S
C-12.     Brillant, G. et al. "Social Determinants of Cataract Surgery Utilization in South
India." Archives of Ophthalmology, Vol. 19, April 1991.
C-13.     Javitt, J. et al. "The Economic and Social Impact of Restoring Sight. " in Acta:
XXIV International Congress of Ophthalmology. edited by P.Henkind (American
Academy of Ophthalmology, 1983).
C-14.     Spencer, M.F. "Extracapsular Cataract and Lens Implantation Surgery in
Developing Countries: Keeping It Simple. " Ophthalmic Surgery, Vol. 21, No.
6, June 1990.
C-15.     Pampattiwar, K.N. and Vaidyanathan, K. "Role of Paramedical Ophthalmic
Assistants in a District: A Case Study of Bhandara Pilot District. " Health for the
Millions, Vol. XVIII, No. 5, October 1992.
C-16.     American Optometric Association. Report of the AOA Task Force on
Optometric Manpower. March, 199?.
C-17.     Lepkowski, J. et al. The Epidemiology of Cataract in South India.
C-18.     Gray, B.H. "World Blindness and the Medical Profession: Conflicting Medical
Cultures and the Ethical Dilemmas of Helping." The Milbank Quarterly, Vol
70, No. 3, 1992.
C-19.     Drummond, M.F. Economic Aspects of Cataract Blindness. In World Blindness
and Its Prevention. Edited by C. Kupfer and T. Gillen (International Agency for
the Prevention of Blindness, 1986).



