4C4             -7--n / /   /A/
t)oum@nt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-6141-IN
NEMORANDUM AND RECOMMNDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 85.3 MILLION
TO
INDIA
FOR A
CATARACT BLINDNESS CONTROL PROJECT
APRIL 21, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P-    6141 IN
Type: MOP
Ths document  s a rstricted distribution and may be used by reipiens ODIy iD the POrfmace of
Thisr ofcl dutiesn   t ontets may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.
!hi   _fis  d,is  it-otm         a   o



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of May 1, 1993)
Currency Undt    =    Rupee
Rupee 32.60           US$ 1.00
Rupee 1.0        -    US$0.0307
METRIC EOUIVALENTS
I Meter (m) =    3.28 Feet (ft)
I Kilometer      =    0.62 Miles
FISCAL YEAR
April I   -   March 31
ABEV_IATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AsDB      -          Asian Development Bank
CRR       -          Cash Resve Requirement
DANIDA  -            Danish Intemational Development Agency
DBCS      -          District Blindness Control Societies
DEA       -          Deparmnt of Economic Affairs
DGHS      -          Director Genera7 of Health Services
EAP       -          Environmental Action Plan
EIA       -          Environmental Impact Assessment
ECCE      -          Extracapsular Cataract Extraction
ECO       -          Expanded Cofinancing Operation
EFF       -          Expanded Fund Facility
EIA       -          Environmental Impact Asssmet
ESAF      -          Enhanced Strcural Adjustment Facility
ESW       -          Economic and Sector Work
FIAS      -          Foreign Investment Advisory Service
GEF       -          Global Environmental Facility
(01       -          Government of ndia
ICCE      -          Intracapsular Cataract Extraction
ICDS      -          Integrated Child Development Services
IOL       -          Intraocular Lens
LICB      -          Limited International Competitive Bidding
MOF       -          Ministry of Finance
MOHFW   -            Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
NBCB      -          National Blindness Control Board
NEAP      -          National Environmental Action Plan
NGO       -          Non-Government Organization
NPCB      -          National Program for Control of Blindness
NRF       -          National Renewal Fund
NRI       -          Non-Resident Indian
NTPC      -          National Thennal Power Corporation
PCC       -          Program Coordination committee
PMU       -          Project Management Unit
PPF       -          Project Preparation Facility
PTl       -          Poverty Targeted Intervention
PVO       -          Private Voluntary Organization
RBI       -          Reserve Bank of India
SEC       -          State Empowered Committee
SOC       -          State Ophthalmic Cell
SSN       -          z.ncial Safety Net
WDR       -          World Development Report



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
CATARACT BLINDNESS CONTROL PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              India, acting by its President
Beneficiaries:         States of Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra
Pradesh, Orissa and Tamil Nadu
Amount:                SDR 85.3 million (US$117.8 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard, with 35 years maturity.
On-Lending Terms:      Government of India to the States of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra
Pradesh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Tanil Nadu and Orissa in accordance with
standard arrangements for development assistance to States and Union Territories.
Financing Plan:
Local       Forei        Total
~~ US$ Million
Government                         17.9          -          17.9
IDA                               87.6         30.2        117.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS               M..5         30.2        135.7
Esfmated Disbursements:
IDA FY         FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99   FY00   FY01   FY02
Annual         7.7    13.2    18.3    18.0    18.7    17.8    18.1        6.0
Cumulative     7.7    20.9    39.2    57.2    75.9    93.7   111.8   117.8
Economic Rate of Retr:  Not Applicable
Poverty Categorv: Program of Targeted hItervention. One of the project's main objectives is to expand
service delivery to poor and undeserved areas and to improve access to cataract surgery for tribal populations
and women. The project contains specific strategies for delivering services to these two groups.
Staff Apprisal Report:             Report No. 12246-IN
This docunent has a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the peformance af their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wotld Bank authorition.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR A CATARACT BLINDNESS CONTROL PROJECT
1.    The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed credit to India is submitted for
approval. The credit, for SDR 85.3 million (US$117.8 million equivalent), would be on standard IDA terms
with 35 years maturity. The Credit would help finance a Cataract Blindness Control Project. The proceeds
of the credit would be passed on by the Govermment of India (GOI) to the selected States in accordance with
India's standard arrangements for development assistance to States.
Part I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Recent Economic and Social Performance
2.    Backround: Since Independence, India's govermnents have faced the daunting task of forging a large,
extremely poor populace, sharply divided along ethnic, linguistic, and religious lines, into a modern, federated
nation state. Despite the difficult and often fractious political environment borne of this diversity, India has
established democratic systems and processes which have ensured a remarkable degree of political freedom
and stability. Until very recently, however, driven by the need to build consensus in a highly diverse society
with extreme poverty, economic policies were dominated by goals of interpersonal and interregional equity
and national self reliance. The strategy for achieving these goals assigned a major role to the state. The large
influence of the state on the economy notwithstanding, the private sector remained important--about 80 percent
of GDP originated in the private sector. This strategy produced mixed results. It was successful in
transforming a secularly stagnant economy into one growing at persistently positive rates (on average, per
capita GDP grew at 1.4 percent per year through the 1970s), eradicating famines, substantially reducing the
incidence of poverty, and developing a diversified industrial base and a relatively large and sophisticated
financial sector. In addition, with conservative macroeconomic management, inflation remained low and fiscal
and balance of payments imbalances seldom persisted. As a result, India has never defaulted on its external
debt.
3.    During the 1980s, consensus began to build that the development policies of the 1950s, 1960s and
1970s were no longer adequate. India's growth rates were much lower than could have been expected in a
country saving and investing over one-fifth of its GDP. At over two percent annually, population growth
remained high and health and education indicators, while showing some progress, remained among the world's
lowest-particularly for women. Faster growth would be needed, it was concluded, both to acceler-e the rate
at which the poor are pulled out of poverty and to increase resources for expanded investment in human
resources. In consequence, important policy changes were made througheut the 1980s to initiate the
liberalization of trade, industrial and financial policies, while subsidies, tax concessions and exchange rate
depreciation improved export incentives. Although these measures helped GDP growth to accelerate to over
5 percent per year during the 1980s and reduced the prevalence of poverty, deepseated structural problems
were addressed only very partially, and the country's fiscal and balance of payments situations deteriorated
steadily. In the late 1980s, mounting macroeconomic instability was compounded by political uncertainty.
There were two general elections and four changes of government between end-1989 and July 1991, which
slowed the pace of reform and prevented the Government from addressing serious macroeconomic imbalances.
4.    Faced with a severe balance-of-payments crisis in mid-1991, the newly elected minority Government
embarked upon a program of stabilization and reform that marked a decisive departure from the development
strategy that India pursued during much of its post-independence period. The program of strucural reforms



focussed on the investment regime, trade policies, the financial sector, taxation, and public enterprise. The
new strategy aims at reducing fiscal and balance of payments deficits, promoting rapid and sustainable growth
in incomes and employment through a broad-based liberalization of the economy, and more effective and
efficient public interventions to reduice poverty and to deepen India's human capital.
5.     Considerable progress has been made on this agenda.' The balance of payments deficit has been
sharply reduced and some progress has been made in fiscal adjustment. The role of market forces in resource
allocation has been significantly increazed and the economy opened to greater private investnent, both
domestic and foreign, and external trade, capital and technology. Significant steps have also been taken to
liberalize and strengthen the financial sector. A comprehensive reform of the tax system started with measures
taken in the 1994/95 Budget piesented to Parliament in February 1994. Progress in addressing the problems
of public en.erprises has been more modest, however.
6.     The challenges that remain, however, are formidable by any standard. According to recent estimates
thirty-nine (39) percent of India's population remains below the poverty line.2 WAh a population of roughly
917 million persous, and adding 17 million new people each year, India will be the most populous country
in the world by the middle of the next century. Most of this growth will take place in urban areas,
fundamentally changinlg the demographic landscape of the country. Achieving sustainable growth in per capita
income and improvement in the standard of living in tf.is extremely poor, socially and politically complex
society represents a development task of major proportions.
7.     Recent Economic Performance: The 1990/91 balarnce of payments crisis which pro-vided the initial
impetus for reform is over. The current account deficit has Geclined from US$10 billion in 199G/91 (3.4
percent of GDP) to an average of US$4 billion in 1991-93 (1.7 percent of GDP), and an estimated US$ 0.8
billion in 1993/94 (0.3 percent of GDP).3 Foreign exchange reserves have increased to about US$ 15 billion
(equivalent to over 7 months of imports), compared to barely US$1 billion in June 1991. The increase in gross
reserves in 1993/94 alone was an estimated US$ 8.6 billion. This is due in large measure to a recent surge
in exports (up 21 percent, over 1993/94 levels) and in foreign investment (US$ 4.9 billion in 1993/94, almost
9 tines larger than its level in 1992/93). Of the US$4.9 billion of foreign investment in 1993/94, US$4.3
billion consisted of portfolio investment, and the remaining US$0.6 billion of foreign direct investment. The
authorities have taken advantage of the rapidly improving external position to retire a significant proportion
of the country's short-term debt and have repaid the IMF, in April, all the obligations falling due in 1994/95.
8.     On the domestic front, inflation is currently running at an annual rate of about 10 percent, down from
a peak of 16 percent in August-September 1991. Real GDP growth has risen from barely 1 percent in
1991/92 to about 4 percent in 1992/93 and in 1993/94. However, the pick-up in economic activity is largely
the result of improved agricultural performance due to good rains. Manufacturing production and investment
have been slow to recover from the deflationary effects of the initial stabilization measures and from the
reorientation of investment plans triggered by the changes in the incentive system.
India's recent progress in adjustment, and the principal challenges ahead are described in the 1993 Economic Memorandum,
India: Progress and Challenees in Economic Transition, IBRD Report No. 11761-IN, May 24, 1993. The 1994 Economic
Memorandum is in preparation and will be distributed to the Board by end May 1994.
2 This estimate, released recently by a Governinenr -appointed expert group, is substantially higher than the previous official estimate of
30 percent. The difference between these estimates is primarily accounted for by the use of regional (as opposed to national) cost-of-
living indices. The methodology and extensive sample survey data system on which Indian poverty estimates are based are described in
the Department's first poverty assessment, which was published in the 1989 Country Eco%nomic Metnorandum: India - Poverty.
Emoloyment and Social Services (Report No. 7617-IN). A new poverty assessment has been initated.
3 The Indian fiscal year nrns from April through March.



9.    After a promising start, fiscal perfornance weakened ixg 1993/94. The Central Government's fiscal
deficit was reduced from 8.4 percent of GDP in 1990/91 to 5.7 percent in 1992/93 but increased again to 7.3
percent of GDP in 1993/94 against a target of 4.7 percent of GDP. Tax revenue shortfalls (due to weak
growthl of manufacturing and imports) account for 40 percent of the fiscal slippage and expenditure overruns
for the remaining 60 percent-mostly on subsidies and grants and loans to the states in anticipation of several
state elections. In addition, because of the effect of the exchange rate reunification in March 1993 and
consequent higher cost of imported military equipment, defense expenditures exceedd the budget target by
0.3 percent of GDP, reaching 2.7 percent of GDP. However, this increase foliows two years of decline in
defense expenditures relative to GDP (from 2.9 percent of GDP in 1990/91 to 2.7 percent of GDP in 1991/92,
and 2.5 percent of GDP in 1992/93). The 1994/95 Budget programs defense expenditures at 2.6 percent of
GDP in 1994/95. With respect to the overall fiscal stance, the Government is fully aware that the fiscal
imbalances are unsustainable and need to be corrected (paras. 21-22).
10.   While human resource development remains a major challenge and merits the high priority given it,
significant progress has been made. Both mortality and feitility have declined sharply during the past decade.
The infant mortality rate fell by a quarter from 105 in 1982 to 79 in 1992, and life expectancy now stands at
roughly 60 years fcr both men and women. The total fertility rate fell by 20 percent between 1981 and 1991
to a level of 3.6 children per woman. Literacy now stands at more than 52 percent overall (64 percent for
males, 39 percent for females), up from 36 percent in 1981 (47 percent for males, 25 percent for females).
Significant disparities across regions remain, however, in all of these dimensions.
B. Externa Enviroament
11.   Enort Markets. External prospects for maintaining strong current account performance are favorable.
Although the weighted GDP growth of India's trading partners is projected to be slightly weaker than the 3.5
percent achieved during the 1980's (3.4 percent for the remainder of the decade), the recent shift in direction
of India's trade towards the fast growing countries in East Asia, which now account for 12 percent of India's
exports, should support strong export growth. In addition, India's import penetration ratios in the slower-
growing major industrial country markets are extremnely small (roughly 0.1 percent).
12.   It should be noted, however, that Indian exports tend to be concentrated in products that are subject
to extensive non-tariff barriers (NTB). NTBs cover over 90 percent of India's clothing exports to the United
States and the European Conmunity. These NTBs range from administrative monitoring of imports (with the
implicit threat to take action if import levels become disturbingly high) to specific quantitative restrictions
under the Multi-Fibre Arrangement. Exports of fabrics, yarns, and other textile products (e.g., carpets, towels
and bed lFrens) are subject to similar controls. Overall, NTB restrictions against Indian exports in its major
developea country markets are more or less comparable to those also affecting exports from China and Korea.
Tariff barriers are relatively low in India's major markets.
13.   Reduction in the overall level of restrictions on merchandise trade resulting from the Uruguay Round
is expected to have a mixed impact on India. In general, reduction in restrictions imposed by other countries
should benefit Indian exports. However, since India currently benefits from preferential access to some
industrial country markets, particularly the EC market, a general reduction of restrictions will also erode the
competitive edge which has been provided by such preferences.
14.   Interest Rates. International real interest rates (US $ LIBOR rate) are projected by the Bank to be
about 300 basis points lower than they were during the 1980s. As of September 1993, 45 percent of India's
US$ 93 billion external debt was at variable interest rates. Each 100 basis point change in interest rates thus
changes India's interest payments by about US$ 400 million.



-4 -
15.   Capital AccoM. The prospects for continued strong performance on the capital account are also
favorable. The pipeline of foreign direct investment continues to build up rapidly. Commitments are running
at about US$ 2 billion per year, and accelerating. India is at present underrepreserted in the portfolios of
institutional investors. With a market capitalization of US$ 87 billion (24 percent of which could, under
current regulations, be held by Foreign Institutional Investors) and corporate securities amounting to well over
US$ 100 billion (to which no restrictions apply), the scope for further inflows, given continuing favorable
p,. ceptions of sovereign risks, is large. Volatility is difficult to predict, but it is clearly greater than that
associated with foreign direct investment. In the face of these inflows the authorities are concerned about
maintaining real exchange rate competitiveness in order to sustain the strong export performance.
16.   External Shocks. India is well-positioned to deal with external shocks. Its gross and net reserve
positions are strong. Net reserves have increased from zero in March 1991 to US$ 3.3 billion by March 94.
In addition the US$ value of gold stocks amount to another US$ 5 billion. Over the last two years, the
authorities have also taken steps to reduce short-term external debt from US$ 8.6 billion at the peak of the
foreign exchange crisis in 1990/91 (of which US$ 3.7 billion were foreign currency accounts from Non-
Resident Indians (NRIs) up to one year maturity and the rest consisted of trade related credits) to US$ 5.2
billion in September 1993. Reserves are sufficient to cope with exogenous shocks zrich as irought-related
agricultural production shortfall, oil shocks comparable to those experienced in the past, and a decline in
portfolio investment volumes.
C. Develonment Obectives and Policies
17.   The achievements of the last three years and the generally favorable prospective external envi-ronment
notwithstanding, much remains to be accomplished "to bring about the rapid and sustained improvement in
the quality of life of the people of India. 4  To this end, the Government has mapped out a set of
intermediate, medium-term objectives and approaches in its Eighth Five Year Plan, in two recent Discussion
Papers issued by the Ministry of Finance, and in the recent Union budgets.
18.   Progress to Date. Substantial progress has been made across much of the reform agenda discussed
by the Board in the CAS review held in December, 1992 (see Tables I and 11). Regarding the investment
regime, sectors previously reserved for public investment such as power, mining, ports, roads, river transport,
air transport, and banking are now open to private investors. In areas not previously reserved for public
investment (such as manufacturing) the government has also dismanded the previous investment licensing
regime. Similar measures have been taken regarding foreign investment which has risen from less than
US$200 million a year in the early 1990s to US$600 million in 1992/93, and US$4.9 billion in 1993/94. In
trade, licensing restrictions on imports of intermediates and capital goods have been lifted, but imports of
consumer goods (including agricultural products) remain subject to license. The maximum tariff rate has been
reduced from 400 percent to 65 percent and average rates from 87 percent to 33 percent. Near-full
convertibility of the rupee for current account transactions has been established. The government has taken
a number of measures which have significantly liberalized the financial sector and strengthened its institution.
Financial institutions' discretion over portfolio composition has increased through the reduction in the Statutory
Liquidity Ratio (SLR, which forced banks to hold in goverrnent securities a fixed portion of their deposits)
from JO..5 percent of increases in deposits to 25 percent, and the Cash Reserve Requirement (CRR, which
forced banks to deposit with the RBI a fixed proportion of their deposits) from 25 percent to 14 percent. In
April 1992, the RBI issued new prudential guidelines for income recognition, asset classification, and
4 Economic Reforms: Two Years After and the Task Ahead. Govermmentof India, Ministry of Finance, Departnent of Economic Affairs, June
1993.



Table I: Stablizaton and Strutural Reform  Objectives and Progress
Objectives                                                    Status
Fiscal LarRets: reduce the Central Govemment's deficit, to 4.7  cO fiscal deficit (percem of GDP):
percent of GDP in 1993-94 and 6 percent of GDP in 1994-95.       90t91:     8.4   93/94:        7.3 (Estimate)
91/92:     6.0
92193:     5.7
euce of Payments: mainain tbe current account deficit at about    Current account deficit (US$ billion):
ton m  293 witn a gradual decline to about US$ 4        90/91:     10.2      92/93:       52
billion in 93/94 and about US$ 3 billion in 94/95.               91/92:     2.6       93/94:       0.8
Trade: eliminate al QRs and reduce tariffs to 25 percent on    Al licensing restrictions on imports of intermediates and
iverage by 97/98; institute full convertibility of the mupee for  capital goo  have been removed. Licensing restictions
curremnt account transaction in tLe next year or two.          remain On consumer goods (including agricultural product).
Maximumtawff mate (%): 400(90); 110(91); 85(93);
65('94).
Average tariff rate(%): 87(90); 64('91): 47('92); 33('93).
Current account convertibiliy of the rupee vitually
implemented.
nvestment Re ime: Limit investment licensing requirements to a  Except for railways, postal services, telecommunications, oil,
few strategic sectors; introduce legislation to expedite closure and  gas and coal, virtually all sectors of the economy are now
provide firms flexibility in employment decisions. further reduce  open to private investment-domestic and foreign. The
restrictions on foreign investment.                            govemment is actively seeking to attract private investment in
oil, gas, and coal-with limited success thus far.
Financial Sector: reduce banks' forced holdings of go-emnment  CRR on incremental deposits educed from 25 to 14 percent;
debt, tiberaize deposit and lending rates; phase out subsidy to  SLR on incremental educed from 38.5 to 25 percent.
pdinty sectors; strengthen prdential regulations and recapitalize  Prudential regulation and supervision stretened. Caphal
banks.                                                         adequacy norms meeting itemational stdads establihad.
Rs. 1 13 biUion ipproprted for recapitalization of banks.
Tax Svm: substal widening of die base of indirect taxes and a   Number of excise tax rats substantially reduced, tax
slimplflcation of the rate structures; phased introduction of a VAT;    administration simplified and most taxes levied on ad valorem
reduction of corporate tax rates and dimination of incentives.  basis; corporate tax rate reduced to a standard rate of 46%.
Public ente rises: (i) eiminate PEs' privileges such as entry  This sategy has been largely implemented but has not been
rotection from external competition, and prefetial   successfil. While PEs have been given the mandate to
access to bdget and financial sector resources; (ii) resuuctu  become profit-oriented commerial concems, they have not
ptentally viable PEs, liquidate the others, and establish a safety  been given the authority to inroduce the required
net program to mitigate social costs; (il) provide PEs more    estructuring measure such as large scale retrenchment,
autonomy and dhe mandate to become profit-oriented concerns.   corporate reorganization, closure or selling of units, joint
ventures with private investor-which have had to be
apprved at the highet polic  level in a tim-consming
and ofen inconclusive process.
provisioning requirements to be reached by all Indian banks by March 1996. The new, more exacting
prudentdal standards have forced the banks to start increasing their provisions in 1992-93 and, for the first time
in recent history, show losses. Controls on interest rates have been relaxed and controls over firms' access
to capital markets removed. While a minimum lending rate remains, interest rates in areas such as certificates
of deposits, debentures, commercial papers, and most government securities are now market determined.
Since September 1992, foreign institutional investors have been allowed to invest in all non-government
securities traded in India's primary and secondary markets, including debentures and shares of private and
public enterprises-up to 24 percent of issued share capital in any one company. The tax rate on capital gains
is 30 percent on gains realized before one year, and 10 percent thereafter. The authorities have also developed
a comprehensive program to strengthen the public banks and increase competition. Tax htes have been
reduced and structures simplified and made more economically efficient. The corporate tax rate has been
reduced to 46 percent and unified. The number of excise tax rates has been significantly reduced, th, number
of exempdons cut, and tax rates are now  ad valom  to make the Modified Value Added Tax more clearly
resemble a value added tax.



- 6-
Table II: Sectoral Refonn Objectives and Progress
Objectives                                                  Status
Social Sector: accelerate the development of India's human  A national program has been established for promoting the
resources, reduce gender, income, and regional inequalities,  development of basic education. Disease control prgrams
strengthen anti-poverty programs, particularly those providing a  have been reviewed and enhanced programs have been set
safey net for the poor affected by the adjustment program.  up in blindness control and leprosy : an enhanced TB
Universal primary education is an important goal of the Eighth  program is being established. The central budgets for key
Plan.                                                       areas of social investments and ongoing national
employment schemes have been increased, with increases
itt central supponto the states as well. The NRF has been
initiated and an employment assurance scheme targeted on
the most backward districts is also being established.
Axriculture: Achieve more rapid and equitable growth through  (i) Trade: No significant change in restrictions on intemal
(i) improving incentives by liberalizing intenal and external  trade. Expott restrions reduced but stiUl significant.
trade; (ii) restructuring of public expenditures with a view to  (iu) Subsidtes: Price decontrol of P & K ferilizer,
raise gpowth-enhancing expenditures on rural infrastructure,  increased expenditures on N; some improvement in
effective public support services (e.g., research, extension) by  targeting of food subsidy expenditures accompanied by an
phasing-out subsidies: (iii) itproving the efficiency of public  overal ncrease in outlays:
expenditure and administration thraugh institutional        (iii) Efficiency of public expenditure: process initiated
strengthening, decentralization, greater beneficiary participation  (72nd Constitutional Amendment) to decentralize
(e.g., irrgation,   i infrastructure, forestty): and (iv)   expenditure responsibility.
improving the maiagernent of natu.al resources.             (iv) Natural resource management: state level watr sector
reforms introduced in 3 stetes and state level forestry
sector reforms introduced in 4 states;
Eneag: (i) Increase private sector participation in production,  (i) Private sector has been invited to paticipate in oil and
refinig and marketing in oil and gas sector. Set prices reflecting   gas exploration and development. GI0 is moving towards
market conditions; (iu) increase the role of the pnvate sector in  m sket based pricing for oil and oil products, except for
power generation and distribudon; bring tariffs to reflect coits  gas.
and increase collection rates; commercialize central and state  (ii) About 80 private power genetation projects are under
utlities and strengthen their management; and reduce        consideration, out of which ? are in advanced stages of
inefficiencies in power generation and distribution; (iii) open the    negodation. ;;OI is monitoreig bill collection and
coal sector to domestic and f1reign competition and private  promoting commercializadon of central utilities. Tariff and
investment; introduce market pricing of coal and liberalize coal  other structural reforms at the state level are under study
distribution; commercialize the industry through (phased) closure   in 7 states.
of loss-making mines.                                       (iii) 001 has reduced the import tariff from 85% to 35%
for power grade coal and to 5% for coking coal. Private
sector has been allowed to invest in captive coal mines. A
program to deregulate coal prices is under consideration
with GOI. CUL is gradually closing loss making mines, 12
mines have been closed in the past 12 months.
Infstructure: Eliminae bottlenecks and improve efficiency in    (i) greater use of consultants for project preparaton and
i usystms through (i) improvements in planning and    supervision and improved contract managemet 74th
implementation capacity of agencies m the sector, (ii) better cost   Amendment passed to alow reorganizaton of urban
recovery; and (iii) deregulate and increase private sector  ifasture erviCeS, establishnent of National Highway
participation.                                              Authority under consideration; (ii) some progress on
increased fuel taxes, increased rail passenger fares and
water; and
(iii) progress made in deregulation and private sector
participation in civil aviation, bus transport, shipping and
on a limited basis in ports. Model rent control passed by
center, revision of urban land ceiling act under
consideration.
19.      Progress has also been made in redirecting central Government expenditures toward high priority
public sector programs and improving the efficiency of expenditure. In the program supported by the
December 1992 IDA Social Safety Net (SSN) Adjustment operation, cuts made in budgetary funding for
important social programs in 1991 were restored in 1992/93, and the 1993/94 budget included substantial
increases in funding for primary education, endemic disease control, and maternal and child health programs.
Spending on the environment, which was largely unaffected by the 1991 cuts, has increased by 11 percent
annually in nominal terms. A number of policy measures to deal with the low efficiency and effectiveness
of many of India's existing social programs have also been introduced. Finally, also supported by the IDA
SSN operation, GOI has initiated the establishment of a new social safety net (the National Renewal Fund



- 7 -
(NRF)) to provide compensation and transitional support to workers who are displaced during the restructuring
process. These and other measures being taken by GOI should, if fully implemented, enhance substantially
the prospects for managing the transitional costs of adjustment and accelerating the development of India's
human resources over the medium term.
20.    The Unfinished Agenda.  The medium-term _
development agenda outlined  above needs to be                    "As we aProach the end of 1993-94, it is clear
that fte Ceatrs tIsca deficit isignifcantly larger tha
pursued with renewed vigor in three crucial respects:     budget and inflationir Ipoteni is bulding. Thus far the
(i) the stabilization and structural adjustment program   fscl      luuseioi apdcityein baindusofpaymtosl
has not, as yet, been completed; (ii) key reforms in    teco "cry) an the contracdonaty mfluences of long overdue
financial sector reforn. But these offsetdng forces can be
sectoral policies have yet to be implemented; and (iii)    expected to weaken over time and it is vital to reassert control
state governments -  key  players on  the Indian          over the fial situation to c,rb inflation, reduce interest rates.
state govemments  key   layers on the Indian releas resources for productive investment adsustaint
development scene -- have yet to take up the reform       confidence in the economy.'
challenge.                                                                          Economic Surve 1993-94
21.    India's continuing high fiscal deficit poses the
most serious single current threat to attainment of its
medium term development objectives. As recognized by the GOI, it threatens the fi-a-e stability of the
economy, reduces fiscal flexibility, and undermines the Lredibility of the overall structural rform program.
The deficit is still too large in relation to GDP to be consistent with low and stable inflation, robust
investment, and a healthy balance of payments.
22.    The Government's recent decision to moderate the pace of fiscal adjustment in the 1994/95 budget in
an effort to reactivate the economy and consolidate public support for the reform program represents a
calcuilated risk.   The authorities recognize that substantially deeper fiscal adjustment, wbich must
simultaneously reduce the overall size of the public sector deficit in relation to GDP and reduce the drag
exerted by inefficient public sector resource mobilization and expenditure, is essential. Action will be needed
on several fronts. Completion of the tax reform along the lines outlined by the Chelliah Committee needs to
be complemented by much-improved cost recovery. Greater emphasis needs to be placed on expenditure
efficiency, particularly with regard to outlays for subsidies, poverty alleviation and the social sectors.
Deepseated fiscal disequilibria in the states, which account for about half of the consolidated central and state
governments expenditure, will require major state-level reforms coupled with a thorough overhaul of their
systems of taxation and expenditures. Politically difficult adjustments ir. India's current system of
intergovernmental transfers may also be requiret
23.    Progress in restructuring and commercializing public sector enterprises (PSEs) has been far slower
than anticipated. Many PSEs are still piling up substantial losses; most are not generating adequate cash flow
to meet their investment needs or are yielding returns on equity below opportunity cos.. Even for the better
performing enterprises, the situation is worsening as competition in the economy continues to intensify as a
result of the liberalization program. Action is urgently needed to speed up the process of liquidating failing
firms, restructure salvageable ones, and accelerate disinvestment in viable firms. Failure to act decisively
along these lines could result in significant pressures on the budget and complicate the task of reducing the
fiscal deficit.
24.    In parallel with further fiscal adjustment, the substantial progress made in reforming the financial
sector needs to be sustained over the course of the next 2-3 years, with an emphasis on improving the health
and competitiveness of the banking system on a sustainable basis. This will require further actions to
strengthen banking supervision, rebuild the capital base of public sector banks, reduce the pre-emptive claims
by GOI and other government entities on banks' resources and increase flexibility in interest rate and credit
policies. Additional measures to promote private sector participation in the financial system are also needed.



Without such reforms, the weaknesses of the ftnancial system would tend to frustrate efforts to improve the
efficiency of the economy, place unacceptable claims on budgetary resources, and weaken macroeconotric
stability, particularly in light of the heavy external capital inflows.
25.   Progress on the sectoral policy agenda has, with few exceptions, generally lagged behind that on
stabilization and structural adjustment. This is because action in many areas is not solely or primarily in the
domain of the Union Government. It requires building consensus among ministries at the central level, and
across levels of govermnent -- centel, state, and local. Accelerated reform at the sectoral and state !evels is
essential if India is to move to a new, sustainable, poverty-reducing high growth path. In virtually all sectors,
three general areas need careful attention. First, sectoral policies are still distorting relative prices and, in
many cases are resulting in substantW losses in the provision of public services. Distortions in energy prices,
for example, are affecting fuel choices, and the implicit taxation of oil and gas production is. discouraging
exploration and development. Below cost prices for power, irrigation services, and municipal water supply
and sanitation encourage wasteful usage of these resources, contribute to major fiscal imblxances, and sap
enterprises' ability to oper - and maintain their assets and invest in service expansion and improvement.
Second, the institutional frameworks in which the sectors uperate need to be reformed. Foremost, where the
public sector provides economic services (e.g., power, telecommunications, rail), there needs to be a clear
organizational and operational separation of commercial functions that could also be performed by the private
sector from regulatory and promotional functions that can be performed best by government. The scope of
regulation needs to be narrowed and focused on interventions strictly necessary to protect the public welfare.
In general, this entails eliminating controls currently imposed by sectoral policies over technology adoption,
location, movement of goods and services, private sector entry and exit. It also requires the creation of new
legal frameworks and institutions for regulating natural monopolies and serious externalities. Finally, the
eauitv and efficiency and/or cost effectiveness with which public services (e.g., social services, public
infrastructure servces, agricultural research and extension and public irrigation) are provided need to be
increased.
26.   The Indian authorities are cognizant of the problems they face and, in most instances, of the available
solutions. In generl, however, the required policy changes are likely to prove technically and politically more
difficult than those introduced during the last two-to-three years. In particular, it has to be kept in mind that
the challenges associated with the design and implementation of complex reforms in a federal democracy such
as India's are detennining the scope, pace and sustainability of the economic reform program.
27.   Macroeconomic Prospects and Risks. In view of the continuing need for stabilization and the uneven
progress in addressing key stmctural/sectoral issues, growth dring the Eighth Plan period (1992-97) is likely
to fall short of the over 5 percent per year achieved during the Seventh Plan (1985-90). The reforms, if
continued as expected, should begin to bear fruit in the late 1990s, and GDP growth can be expected to attaiD
the 6 percent mark during that period. This growth performance is predicated on an expected gradual
recovery of rrivate and public investment, a substantial improvement in the efficiency of such investments,
and coninued relatively rapid export growth. Inflation is likely to remain in the high single digits in the near
term due to anticipated adjustments of key administered prices (e.g., power tariffs, foodgrain prices) and some
continuing pressures on the money supply emanating from reserve accumulation and still-high fiscal deficits.
28.   The surge of capital inflows during the last several months, which shows no signs of abating, and the
Government's recent decision to slow the pace of fiscal adjustment to stimulate the economy complicates the
outlook for near-to-mid-term macroeconomic balances. Much will depend upon the near-tern policy
adjustments the Government makes. Achievement of the 6 percent fiscal deficit target for 1994/95 is essential
not only for re-instituting the medium-term fiscal adjustment program, but also for ensuring credibility of the
reform program as a whole. With respect to the capital inflows, widening the current account deficit or
accumulating foreign exchange reserves are the two avenues through which an economy absorbs the inflows.



-9-
Table m: Key Macroeconomic bdicators
1992193      1993194       1994/95      199S/96      19967
Prasm       (mate                    Projections
GDP at factor cost                            4.0          3.8         4.5          5.0         5.5
Infladon                                      9.6          8.5         7.5          7.0         6.0
Domesic Investment/GDP                        25.0        24.1        24.0         24.3         24.6
Public                                       8.9          8.7         8.4         8.2          8.2
Private                                     16.1         15.4        15.6         16.1        16.4
National Savings/GDP                         22.9         23.8        23.1         23.3        23.6
Public                                       0.4         -1.1        -0.5         0.9          1.9
Private                                     22.5         24.8        23.5         22.4        21.7
CuffentAccouttalance/GDP                      2.1          0.3         1.0          1.0         1.0
Genea  Government' Deficit/GDP                7.3          9.0         8.0          7.0         6.0
Generl Govt Primay DeficWGDP                  2.0          3.2         1.0          0.5         0.0
Foreign Exchange Res (million US$)           6,749      15,000       15,550      15,750       16,250
In monthsof imports                           3.5         7.6          6.8         6.1          5.3
_ener and state govemments consolated.
Whether the current account is widened ftrough a reduction in domestic savings or through an increase in
investment, however, is of critical importance for the growth of the economy and its future capacity to service
the inflows. Accumulation of foreign exchange reserves also involves difficult choices. Unless inflows are
sterilized, there is a loss of control over the monetary base and heightened risk of inflation. Sterilized
intervention, however, implies rising real domestic interest rates and can be a source of large losses to the
central bank. The scenario presented here assumes that, through an appropriate mix of fiscal and monetary
policies and a gradual revival of investment and domestic economic activity, the pace of reserve accumulation
will moderate perceptibly and the real exchange rate will stabilize and begin to depreciate again gradually.
29.    The remarkable improvement in India's external accounts in 1993-94 has eliminated the need for new
fast-disbursing assistance for the foreseeable future. However, in view of the potential - 'atility of capital
inflows and the delicate policy problem the Government faces in engineering the appropriate combinaton of
growth, macroeconomic stability and liberalization of the trade and capital regimes, the Bank should monitor
the situation closely and stand ready to resume fast-disbursing assistance if justified. In addition, continued
access to long term development assistance will remain critical to India to support reform-related investment
programs in agriculture, energy, infrastructure and social sector development. While the private sector has
indicated interest in investing in some of these sectors, the public sector will continue to play an important
role and official development assistance will remain vital to sustaining investment in these key areas of the
economy.
D. The Bank Groun's Countrv Assistce Stratev
Overal objectives and strateev
30.    In continuation of the Country Assistance Strategy outlined to the Board in December 1992 (Report
No. 5924-IN), the Bank's assistance to India over the next three years will focus on supporting GOI's efforts



- 10-
to provide an enabling environment for broad-based, efficient, private sector-led growth while accelerating
poverty alleviation and the development of human resources. To that end, our top priority is to support
extending the coverage and deepening of structural/sectoral reforms. Since a large proportion of India's
population continues to be subject to malnutrition and ill-health and does not have the educational skills and
access to means of production that will enable it to participate fully in and benefit from the growth process,
our strategy aims also to enhance the access to and quality of basic social services for the poor and to support
well-targeted safety net programs that protect the most vulnerable groups in the society.
31.   The overall environment for Bank operations which pursue these objectives remains favorable with
significant new openings for structural improvements in the financial, power and coal sectors. However, a
large agenda for stabilization and reform remains. Moreover, several priority areas of structural reform will
depend on action by State government administrations, and there is evidence that these are still experiencing
some difficulty in following up on the reform measures initiated by the Center during the past two years. The
bulk of public expenditures in key sectors of the economy (e.g., agriculture) and on social programs is made
by the State govermnents. In many States, the policy and institutional frameworks and quality of governance
are not consistent with orderly fiscal adjustment, growth and effective and sustainable poverty reduction
efforts. Yet these are often States with large numbers of poor.
32.   The Bank's assistance strategy comprises: (i) support for GOI's economic and soci-" policies through
policy dialogue, economic and sector work (ESW), technical assistance and the continued .ctive management
of our portfolio at the Union level and in strategically important States; (ii) direct support for specific reforms
through policy-based investment operations at the sectoral, State and economy-wide levels; and (iii) investment
lending in the social sectors in direct support of India's safety net and human resource development programs.
The priority areas of the Government's development agenda that will be supported by Bank ESW and lending
operations during the next three years are highlighted in Attachment 1. To gain wider recognition and
support for the Bank's activities in India, particularly in poverty alleviation and human resource development,
a special public affairs initiative - to be undertaken jointly with the Government - is planned in the coming
year.
33.   In view of India's strengthened balance of payments, the Bank and the GOI have agreed that the
upcoming meeting of the Aid India Consortium should be restructured so that, in addition to focusing on ODA
flows, a more systematic dialogue is also opened with private sources of portfolio and direct foreign
investment. To that end, the 1994 meeting will be organized under the name of the "India Development
Forum" and will have two distinct parts: Part I will bring together the representatives of the bilateral and
multilateral aid agencies for discussion of the Government's plans, programs and assistance priorities; Part II
will focus on the information needs of India's market partners. The future fonnat and focus of Form meetings
will be further reviewed with the Government in view of the experience gained from the 1994 meeting.
Instrments and strategic approaches
Economic and sector work
34.   The success of the Bank's policy dialogue and lending strategy depends to a large extent on the
production and effective dissemination of timely, high-quality ESW. Important examples of work in progress
are: a Public Expenditure Review, a trade policy review, and a Private Sector Assessment which is being
prepared in collaboration with the IFC. A Poverty Assessment has been initiated and will provide guidance
for investment lending in the social sectors and for the deployment of our assistanc_ to the agricultural and
urban sectors. Over the next several years, our ESW program will continue to give highest priority to
stabilization and economic reform.



- 11 -
35.    Future ESW will also focus increasingly on State and sector level issues, on strengthening our ability
to adopt a more programmatic approach to these issues, and on cross-cutting development priorities. For
instance, the proposed economnic study of Uttar Pradesh (FY95) -- India's most populous state (140 million
persons) and one of its poorest (with a per capita income about 30 percent below the national average) -- will
provide a comprehensive assessment of reform issues in this key State. Continued support for the further
development of the Government's Environmental Action Plan and studies of enviromnental issues in the energy
sector represent other planned initiatives in this regard. Finally, as a central element of our ESW strategy,
the Department provides informal technical advice as a key element of the policy dialogue.
36.    ESW dissemination is being pursued via one or more of a number of channels, depending upon the
size and characteristics of the potential target audience and the sensitivity of the material. Meetings, workshops
and/or conferences are organized to present and discuss Bank-produced sectoral reports and Bank-wide ESW
of broad potential interest. Multiple events targeting different groups including NGOs and PVOs are
frequently organized, as was done with the Irrigation Sector Report which was discussed with several state
irrigation departments and user groups in several major irrigation commands.
Lending strategy
37.    Recent improvements in India's balance of payments make it difficult to justify further adjustment
lending. However, our economic and sector work will be conducted in a manner so as to maintain a state of
readiness for adjustment lending, should balance of payments developments turn unfavorable and provided
appropriate programs are put forward for Bank support. In addition, the Governmert has indicated its
continued interest in Bank --ipport for its ongoing financial sector reform in the form of financial
intermediation lending, including technical assistance.
38.    IBRD's FY94 commitments and the lending      TableaIV: Th_eYe  Lenin Prg              - t
plan for the next three years are substantially below              a  S, milleons)
those envisaged in the last CAS for two main
reasons. First, the recent major increase in India's
foreign exchange reserves has eliminated the              Sector      FY89-91   PY9Q4   PY9SI'
balance of payments justification for fast-disbursing  ToalW            7,026    5,984    6,690
lending. Secondly, given the fiscal constraints and
limited implementation capacity, the authorities    Agrlcre              1668    1,57S    1,350
have decided that they wish ;o limit project        oil, Gas & Coal      790       12      300
borrowings approximately to the level of annual     Transport & Telecom  250      400      52
disbursements  so  that  after  the  massive        Urban & Water        200       92      910
restructuring of the portfolio already accomplished,  Indusy & Finance  1406      141     590
restuctrin oftheporfolo areay acomlised, PUN                703     904      970
the committed but undisbursed balances will not     Education            567      165      540
begin to grow again.  Commensurate with the         DissterRelief        210      250       0
reduced planned lending levels, the administrative  Adjust0et N                   950       0
Socia Safety Net             500     5S0
budget resources for the India Department are          Memo tems
being curtailed by about 4 percent in the coming    IDRD                4,356    2,525    3,220
year.                                               IDA                 2,670    3,459    3,470
No. of Operadons     32       34       33
39.    Overall, we envisage a three-year IBRD        I Lending plan dependenton de availabliy of quality
lending program composed of about US$ 2.5 -3.5      program and Projec,
billion in policy-based investment/sector
operations, mainly in support of infrastructure and
energy development. The size and composition of



- 12 -
the Bank's lending to India will continue to be closely linked to progress in priority areas of the reform
agenda, and as such will be substantially self-regulating.
40.   Maintaining or expanding India's access to MA for the forsecable future is critical to the development
and reform of key social sector programs. Private capital flows, even if sustained at recent record levels, will
not provide the necessary resources for public goods and services such as primary education, family planning,
nutrition, endemic disease control and rural works programs targeted on poverty areas. For IDA, a feasible
three-year lending plan would involve approximately 20 IDA investment lending operations in pursuit of
poverty alleviation, human resources development and environmentally sustainable development for a total of
about US$3.5 billion. Poverty Targeted Interventions (PTIs) are expected to constitute 50 percent of the
FY95-97 lending program, up from 45 percent over the period FY92-94.
41.   The principal macro-economic concerns which, together with the availability o; quality projects and
programs, will govem the volume of Bank lending to India are: (i) success in reducing the central govermment
fiscal deficit from the estimated outcome of 7.3 percent of GDP in 1993/94 to the budgeted level of 6 percent
of GDP in 1994/95, thereby setting the stage for further significant reductions through improvements in tax
collections, lowering of budgetary subsidies and restraint in other recurrent expenditures; (ii) control of
inflation within single digits and maintenance of a competitive real exchange rate; (iii) maintenance of foreign
exchange reserves equivalent to about three months of imports; (iv) progress towards the elimination of
quantitative restrictions on external trade and an average tariff rate of 25 percent by 1996/97; and (v) sufficient
progress in reducing the government preemption of banking system resources to achieve a statutory liquidity
ratio of 25 percent by 1996/97 and the adoption of further measures to increase efficiency and private sector
participation in the fiancial sector. These objectives have been discussed with the authorities and are
consistent with their own program. Significant shortfalls against these macroeconomic objectives would lead
to a progressive reduction in sector and investment lending beginning with those IBRD operations where the
prospects for the reforms essential for project viability (Attachment 1) appear least promising-only one or two
operations for a total of US$300-400 million. We expect greater year-to-year volatility of IBRD lending than
in the past, due both to the heavier sector policy content of the lending program and to our increasing reliance-
-as a part of our sti-ategy for strengthening quality and readiness at entry-on borrower preparation efforts (see
paras. 70-71). Policy slippage and sustained deterioration in the macro-economic framework would also lead
us to re-examine the size and content of the IDA lending program. IDA operations aimed directly at poverty
alleviation and human resource development would be the last to be curtailed provided significant
improvements and implementation performance are attained.
42.   Agriculture will continue to be a major recipient of IDA resources. The sector accounts for about
one-third of India's GDP (and close to twG thirds of tradeable GDP), employs the bulk of the labor force and
harbors about 80 percent of the country's poor. Overall trend growth in the sector has remained steady at
about 2.6 percent since the 1960s and, over the years, India has become self-sufficient in foodgrains and
conquered the problem of famines. These achievements notwithstanding, experience in other countries
suggests that the growth of the past is modest compared to India's potential. Bringing about an acceleration
of agric':ltural growth, together with a more equitable pattern of growth, is one of the principal challenges
facing Indian authorities in their efforts to expand exports, output and employment, and to alleviate poverty.
43.   There are three key constraints to faster and more equitable agricultural growth: (i) Interventions in
pricing and the trade regime depress the sector's profitability and distort price signals, limiting its ability to
diversify and further intersiiy its food production. (ii) Since the early 80s, public expenditures in agriculture
have been increasing' directed towards recurrent outlays and subsidies (on irrigation, fertilizer, food, credit,
inputs and commercial services) at the expense of growth-enhancing expenditures on rural and irrigation
infrastructure, effective agricultural technology development and other crucial public support services that



- 13-
would further stimulate agricultural productivity. (iii) Inadequate decentralization of decision-making and
beneficiary participation in public expenditures undermines their sustainability, efficiency and effectiveness.
44.   Given these constraints, the lending strategy adopted in agricultur- will focus on improving (i) the
price incentive structure, (ii) the efficiency of public expenditures and administration (including the operation
and management of the rural credit system), which together, will raise the profitability of agriculture, and (iii)
decentralized decision-making and participation to improve the efficiency and sustainability with which natural
resources (water, soil, forestry) are being used by the sector. Because agriculture is a state subject, the
lending strategy will support State-level programs, except in selected areas where, for externality and
economies of scale considerations, interventions at the central level are more appropriate (e.g., the National
Hydrology Project (FY95), Agricultural Human Resources Project (FY96), National Water Management
Project and National Agricultural Technology Project (FY97)).
45.   To enhance natural resource management, lending operations will comprise state-level forestry projects
(Madhya Pradesh (FY95) and Bihar (FY96)) and water consolidation projects (in follow-up to Haryana,
recently presented to the Board, Tamil Nadu (FY95) and Orissa (FY97)). These operations will promote
appropriate policy changes, institution building, and active beneficiary involvement in the sustainable
development, of land, water and human resources. Through increased cost recovery, the water resources
operations will also contribute significantly to redressing fiscal imbalances in the states.
46.    To improve the price incentive structure and the states' capacity to invest in and deliver crucial public
support services, lending operations will comprise state-level agricultural development and diversification
operations (Assam (FY95), Uttar Pradesh (FY97) and possibly Karnataka). To implement this strategy, up-
front reforms in the purview of the respective states on price and trade policies, the legal and regulatory
environment, increased cost recovery and phasing-out of subsidies for less effective agricultural services and
inputjs would be expected. These measures would be complemented by investments in rural infrastructure,
essential agricultural support services and institutional strengthening that encourage greater efficiency in public
administration and its responsiveness to users through a combination of decentalization and beneficiary
participation. These state-level operations should also help forge a consensus on the need for reforms in the
purview of the Center, particularly those concerning internal and further external trade liberalization and
subsidies financed wholly or partly by the Center. In most cases these complementary reforms will be
essential for the state level projects to go forward. With respect to rural credit, no operations are currently
envisaged pending the formulation of a satisfactory plan for the overhaul of the rural credit system in the
context of the ongoing financial sector reform program.
47.   Despite progress since Independence, as evidenced by various social indicators (para. 10 and Annex 4)
the status of India's human resources remains severely inadequate. A very large proportion of India's
children are malnourished, there are high rates of endemic disease, and fertility remains high in much of North
India. At present rates of development, these trends will continue, substantial levels of chronic disease will
emerge, and there will continue to be an increase for some time in the absolute numbers of illiterates in India.
For these reasons, human resources development has been a central focus of IDA assistance in India since
1988. This will continue.
48.   The Government has mounted major new programs to address these problems (e.g., national programs
for strengthening basic education and endemic diseases) and initiated reforms to strengthen existing programs.
Importantly, new and modified programs are being structured/restructured to deal with many of the generic
structural problems (e.g., insufficient, misdirected, and poorly targeted expenditures; limited access to
services; programs that are of limited quality; serious wastage and inefficiencies; limited cost recovery; and
insufficient efforts at tapping the private and private voluntary organization sectors for program planning,
implementation and monitoring) that have increased the cost and reduced the effectiveness of previous program



- 14 -
structures. This will take time. Overall, underfunding will continue to be a serious problem under present
and forseeable fiscal circumstances.
49.   In this context, IDA assistance will focus on raising nutritional standards; reducing fertility; reducing
morbidity and mortality from key endemic diseases; and raising educational attainments. In all of these areas,
special emphasis will be put on improving access, improving efficiency, and raising outcomes. In addition,
IDA assistance would help to strengthen links between the public sector and private and PVO organizations.
Finally, IDA assistance in these areas will focus almost exclusively on the poor, with special attention to girls,
scheduled tribes, and scheduled castes. Based on lessons of experience IDA lending is moving from
investment lending to time slice and sectoral approaches. The investment lending will be oriented toward
assisting the states in developing more efficient and replicable approaches to dealing with the most important
human resource development issues.
50.   Specifically, IDA assistance in nutrition would be oriented toward continuing assistance to the
Integrated Child Development services for poor women and children and toward the development of a program
to strengthen micro-nutrient supplementation, in FY 97 and 98. This will be done in close collaboration with
UNICEF. Now that the Indian family welfare program has established a broad based infrastructure, IDA
assistance would focus on trying to address some of the fundamental constraints to more rapid fertility
reduction, especially in North India, by taking a sectoral approach and focusing on strategic aspects of
program management, such as the target setting system, enhanced geographical targeting, improved funding
of operating and maintenance costs, and quality assistance (FY96 and 97). IDA assistance in health will
continue to address endemic disease issues, with projects to combat Tuberculosis (FY95) and Malaria (FY96).
In addition, IDA would assist states in strengthening their overall approach to the supply of health services,
following the lead of the project being developed in Andhra Pradesh (FY95) and in another state to be
determined (FY97). IDA assistance in education will focus with highest priority on trying to help India
achieve universal primary education of acceptable quality, especially for girls, scheduled tribes, and scheduled
castes (FY95 and 96).
51.   In the energy sector operations will be critically dependent on the Government's ability to press ahead
with pricing policy reforms and commercilization of the public sector energy enterprises. The Goverunent's
fiscal, balance of payments and growth. targets are all threatened by the growing gap between domestic energy
supply and demand, and by the problems in financial and systems management which the continued serious
mismanagement of the majority of the state-level power sector creates for the National Thermal Power
Corporation, the Powergrid Corporation and Coal India. GOI's new energy strategy is beginning to address
these issues by placing much greater emphasis on efficiency issues in the production, use and pricing of
energy. In the hydrocarbon subsector, the declining trend in oil production is being reversed through
improvements in production of the Bombay High and other oil fields, partially financed under the Gas Flaring
Reduction Project (Ln. 3314) and gradual induction of private sector resources into oil and gas exploration and
development (including existing fields). However, the incentive systems in all segments of the oil and gas
industry still need to be improved through trade liberalization and appropriate reforms of domestic pricing
policies, including bringing prices of petroleum products in line with prevailing world prices and progressive
phasing out of subsidies. In the power subsector, efficiency, accountability and competition are being
encouraged through greater private sector participation. However, clear demarcation of regulatory and
operational functions, autonomy within existing public iector entities and the introduction of commercial
principles into their operations are still needed. A sustainable solution to the power subsector's efficiency and
resource mobilization problems also has to include major tariff reforms, systematic efforts to improve
collection, and fundamental restructuring of the State power sectors. All of these steps will be needed to
attract private investment to this sector. In the coal subsector, the main challenge is to restructure and
enhance the commercial orientation of Coal India Limited, together with measures to liberalize domestic coal
pricing and coal imports.



- 15-
52.   The Govenmment has initiated action in the commercialization of operations in the coal and power
sector. In the case of the power sector the Government has availed of the Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
to initiate restructuring of the power sectors in a number of States.(Ref. Board paper SecM94-292, circulated
21 March 1994). Hence we envisage IBRD lending in the next three years to coal (FY95) and the state power
sectors of Haryana (FY96); Orissa (FY96) and Uttar Pradesh (FY97) and possibly also of Rajasthan and Bihar,
with particular emphasis on improving power systems efficiency, commercializing the sector and ensu-ring
environmental sustainability of the investment programs. Timing of the operations will critically depend on
the pace of the state sector reform process. An operation for POWERGRID (FY97) is also planned to further
improve the transmission planning capabilities and to strengthen and expand the national grid. Due to India's
chronic past under-investment in these areas, transmission lines are urgently needed to help improve power
system operations and utilization of existing generating capacity.
53.   Over the medium term, the growing issues of envirownentally sustainable energy sector development
will have to be addressed throiugh improved environmental clearance and monitoring processes, reforms to
promote efficient energy demand management, pioneering investments in clean coal technology as well as
major sector studies. Future investments in the sector will continue to promote renewable energy sources and
environmental improvements in power stations and coal mining operations. A program to this effect is under
preparation for GEF and other external funding.
54.   Bank support to the infaucture sector is dependent to a large extent on the Government's
commitment to reform of the sector. The severe bottlenecks that characterize India's infrastructure subsectors
are inhibiting economic growth, international trade and investment. Consequently, GOI's new development
strategy attaches heightened importance to the development of efficient infrastructure services. Inadequate and
poor quality service, financial pressures, technological change and the need to integrate the Indian economy
into the world trade system indicate that the areas most urgently in need of reform initiatives are
telecommunications and transport. Since much of the analytical groundwork has been completed in these
subsectors, it should be possible to make rapid progress with reform in the near future. There is also a
pressing need for reforms at the level of states and municipalities in the urban, water supply and sanitation
subsectors due to their critical relationship to progress in areas such as economic productivity, poverty
alleviation and environmental protection. Here, the analytical framework is advancing, but further work is
needed. In all of these investments it will be a major challenge to design and implement programs which deal
effectively with the economic rehabilitation of the people (land owners and squatters) who will be affected by
the Government's exercise of the right of way.
55.   Unlike most of India's other infrastructure subsectors, the finances of India's telecommunications
subsector are reasonably sound. However, service levels are poor and internal resources for the expansion
and modernization of services are very inadequate. Opening the telecommunication market to private and
foreign investment and operation under government utility regulation is increasingly seen as the route to
rapidly expanding coverage and enhanced quality. This is by far the "easiest" of the infrastructure subsectors
to reform, and would have a high pay-off in terms of increasing exports, foreign investment and domestic
commerce. Given the strong interest of private investors, no Bank lending is envisaged.
56.   The key policy issue for India's transport sector is how to introduce commercial management and
operational practices where it will promote innovation, efficiency and self-financing of capital requirements.
Reform of the road and rail systems revolves around the severely congested high density corridors (HDC),
which are a constraint on economic growth. Commercial behavior and incentives in the railroad need to be
promoted through a phased reduction in budgetary assistance and institutional reforms to insulate Indian
Ralways' from political pressures to offer more subsidized passenger services at the expense of freight
services. For roads, new fuel taxes temporarily earmarked for HDC construction and an expressway initiative
under a National Highway Authority-relying on modern procurement -- -ntract management processes that



- 16-
by-pass the constraints under which the State Public Works Departments are operating--could make an urgently
needed contribution towards improving the current situation. The major ports of India have already made
substantial investments in container facilities but these are not being used efficiently because of a combination
of inadequate port management, strong labor unions, lack of compatible road and rail investments and an
inadequate inter-modal system. Reforms to provide more autonomy and accountability to the port authorities
and introduce private sector participation are required. The Container Transport Development Project (FY94)
will address several of these bottlenecks.
57.   The rapid urbanization of the Indian population is both a cause and consequence of economic
development. However, in the present institutional and policy regime, it would mean that more people will
live in slums while access to basic infrastructure and services and the quality of the urban envirornent are
deteriorating. Demographic trends are such that over one-third of India's population will live in urban areas
by the turn of the century. Progress will not be made unless effective action is taken at the State level to
decentralize responsibilities and allocate corresponding revenue sharing, resource generation and user charging
authority to the municipal agencies. Major reforms are needed in the area of land management as well. In
partcular, the Land Ceiling and Rent Control Acts (now under revision) have severely depressed the supply
of land available for new development and the revenue base of municipal authorities.
58.   IBRD lending to the infrastructure sector will be contingent on the reforms referred to above. Hence
in the medium term the operations envisaged are in areas where preparation has already been initiated and
some progress has been made in capacity expansion and efficiency improvements. These include Bombay
Sewage Disposal, Uttar Pradesh Rural Water Supply, Madras Water Supply (FY95), Haryana State Roads
(FY96), and Bombay Urban Transport (FY96). Discussions are ongoing with the center, state and local
governments to establish apex bodies to finance large scale improvements in municipal infrastructure and
services. These entities would be responsible for the identification and appraisal of municipal investments
within criteria established to ensure efficient and sustainable development. It is also expected that a National
Highway Fund would be established to finance the HDC program of the National Highway Authority, and to
provide a focal point for multilateral and bilateral lending to the road sector.
59.   Technical assistance. Strengthening India's institutional capacity is a major long-term objective of
the Bank's assistance strategy. The Department has increasingly used technical assistance to enhance the
management capacity and technical skills of the executing agencies. In view of the availability of technical
skills in India, the provision of this technical assistance has relied heavily on domestic consultants. Most of
the investment projects in the portfolio now allocate up to 10 percent of the loan/credit amounts for technical
assistance. For example, an innovative component of the National AIDS Control Project is helping to
establish a national board and a technical advisory committee at the Union Govermment level, empowered
committees at the state level, and management teams and monitoring systems at lower levels. The Department
has also been active in mobilizig trust fund, Project Preparation Facility (PPF) and Institutional Development
Fund (IDF) support for project preparation and capacity building. Institutional Development Fund (IDF)
grants have been made to strengthen GOI's capabilities for improving the management of the GOI budget
dedicated to externally assisted projects, evaluating alternative decentalization options for strengthening local
govermments, and for strengthening capacity to implement a major tax reform. Project preparation, supported
with Japan Grants and PPFs is used to finance links between expertise outside of India with suitable Indian
institutions, both to assist in project development and to build capacity within India in the longer term. In the
power sector, four PPFs have been approved to prepare state power restructuring projects with relevant
foreign expertise. In the development of the health portfolio and projects in AIDS, Leprosy, Blindness
Control and TB, WHO has provided considerable technical inputs into project development, as have specialists
from the US Centers for Disease Control and the US National Institute of Health. Technical assistance is also
used to promote enhanced technologies, such as multi-drug therapy in leprosy, short course chemotherapy in



- 17-
TB, and the use of intraocular lenses in treating cataracts. Efforts along these lines will continue in all priority
sectors.
Areas of SNecal Operaffonal Dmphmais
60.   Poverty Alleviation. Our basic strategy in this area is to support the Government's efforts to promote
accelerated, broad-based economic growth through macroeconomic and sector reforms and increased
expenditures in key areas such as rural infrastructure and selected social programs, and to ensure that the poor
are protected during the adjustment period and are better equipped to benefit from the growth process. The
strategy calls for an intensive dialogue with both Central and State governments, and requires a careful mix
of ESW, technical assistance and policy based investment lending centered on the agriculture and human
resources sectors.
61.   A Poverty Assessment to be completed in FY95 will strengthen the analytical underpinnings for IDA's
assistance in long-term poverty alleviation. In view of the key role played by the State governments in the
agriculture and human resources sectors, we are also launching a major study of development issues in the
important State of Uttar Pradesh, whose performance has major implications for the overall pace of poverty
alleviation in India. The substantive results of the Poverty Assessment and Uttar Pradesh state study will be
reflected in the 1995 CAS.
62.   ParticDati. The IDA operations are targeted directly at poverty alleviation and human resource
development (HRD). To improve the sustainability of these operations, a special effort is being made to enlist
the participation of beneficiaries and communities in the design and implementation of projects, especially in
HRD and agriculture. A departmental task force was established in March 1993 to develop guidelines aimed
at encouraging task managers to make a more systematic use of social assessments, participatory approaches,
appropriate R&R strategies and procedures in project preparation and implementation. Project preparation
includes studies of special groups, beneficiary assessments, rapid rural appraisal, structured groups, and
participant observation. This is now very extensively practiced in the India portfolio and good examples can
be found in the development of the UP Education Project, the upcoming District Primary Education Project,
the Leprosy Control Project, the Blindness Control Project and the Bihar Plateau Project. For example,
groups of leprosy patients were canvassed to help assess existing leprosy control efforts and new patients will
help to plan the schedule and delivery of their drug treatment. To prepare the Blindness Project, extensive
assessments were carried out among previously blind patients who had participated in the ongoing blindness
control program to assist in formulating a more user-friendly and higher quality approach to service design
and delivery. Village Education Committees are assisting in implementing the UP Basic Education Project
and will be instrumental in the District Primary Education Project.
63.   NGOs are also now extensively involved in IDA/IBRD assisted programs in the social sectors and 3d
resettlement and rehabilitation, agriculture, forestry, and environmental action programs. They are operating
a large number of family welfare facilities under the population projects. They are also very involved in the
delivery of therapy and rehabilitation under the leprosy project. A very significant part of the surgeries to
be performed in the Blindness Control Project will be carried out by NGOs and the project is founded on
strengthening the links between the public, private, and PVO organizations.
64.   Gender and Poverty. The Bank has supported GOI's programs to draw women into the mainstream
of economic activity by improving their access to productive resources and services, such as in agriculture,
extension and training. It has also helped improve the welfare and status of women through support to family
planning, nutrition, health, technical education and basic education services. Specific examples include the
National Sericulture project where the needs of women as workers in silk producing households as regards
financial resources, power and decision making were taken into account in the project design. Similarly in



- 18 -
the Shrimp and Fish Culture and Rubber projects, income generating activities were directly targeted on the
female population, given their role in these lines of production. State Forestry projects have incorporated into
their design participation of women in the planning, decision making and benefit sharing of social forestry.
The population projects have reduced fertility through better family planning services, and improved the health
of women in rural and urban households. The Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project is an example of the
successful establishment of village based Women's Working Group which support the nutrition and health
education components of the project. The Bank's Vocational and Technical Education Projects include support
for the expansion and upgrading of training for women at various levels including teacher training.  In
primary education, the UP Basic Education project is aimed at districts selected on the basis of low female
literacy and women's NGOs are assisting in project implementation. The rural water supply and sanitation
projects in Maharashtra and Kamataka provide a key role for women's user groups and community
participation in the maintenancf of hand pumps and the introduction of sanitation.
65.   Bank strategy in this area will continue to focus on: (a) deepening the dialegue with the Government
on policy, administrative and legal reforms designed to increase the role of women in the development
process; (b) strengthening of gender analysis and increasing the WID components/activities in agriculture and
forestry projects (FY95 and 96) population a-ld human resources projects (FY96 and 97) and rural water
supply projects (FY95); (c) sector work to design effective programs for women. The poverty assessment
(FY95) will also include a status report on gender issues relevant to poverty alleviation.
66.   Environment. The Bank's commnitment to environmentally sustainable development is also being
pursued directly through specific operations designed to support the development of environmental and natural
resource management institutions and through financing of investments that will improve the quality of the
Indian environment-e.g., the second Industrial Pollution Control project (FY94), State-level forestry
deve'opment projects, water resource consolidation projects, renewable energy development and demand-side
management programs in the power sector. More generally, we are ensuring that environmental assessments,
from preparation to supervision, are carried out in accordance with India's own demanding laws and
regulations and in collaboration with beneficiaries, concerned NGOs and project implementing agencies.
Where needed, we are seeking adjustments in national standards and processes in order to satisfy Bank
requirements.
67.   GOI has recently completed preparation of a Country Program to implement the Montreal Protocol
and a Natiopal Enviromnental Action Program. The EAP identifies several broad priority areas for action and
a corresponding set of programs. Overall, it promises to be a useful vehicle for mobilization and management
of resources for India's rapidly expanding environmental protection activities. Importantly, it provides a solid
national programmatic foundation for development of activities that could be supported by the next phase of
the Global Environment Facility. Building on these efforts, the FY94 CEM is reviewing the status of India's
programs to control and rrevent pollution and conserve forests, wildlife and biodiversity. Other ESW will
explore in greater depth different aspects of India's environmental situation-e.g., the FY95 study of
environmental issues in the energy sector and the FY97 study of industrial pollution. Detailed monitoring of
the implementation of the eco-development component in the recently approved Forestry Research Project will
provide the basis for further investments (by GEF and IDA) in the preservation of India's biodiversity.
Overall, our assistance strategy focuses on implementing environmentally sustainable technologies and on
increasing GOI's capacity to implement, monitor and expand its ambitious environmental action program (see
Attachment 2).
68.   Private Sector Development. In addition to improvements in general policies and institutions, all
programs in agriculture, infrastructure, energy and social sectors will continue to enlist private sector
participation where appropriate. A fundamental objective of the Bank's strategy during this transition period
in India is to promote efficient private sector development by assisting GOI in the elimination of constraints



- 19-
to the industrial restructuring which is required in response to the changes in macroecoiiomic and structural
policies. The Bank's work in this area is being coordinated closely with the International Finance
Corporation. A Private Sector Assessment, has been prepared jointly and is guiding our activities in this area.
Increased private sector participation in the financial, energy and infrastructure sectors are central elements
of our sector development strategy.
Portfolio implementation
69.   With more than 100 projects valued at over US$20 billion (net of cancellations, India accounts for 9
percent of the IBRD portfolio and 27.5 percent of the IDA portfolio. Last year's Country Assistance Strategy
outlined the main features of this portfolio and how it had developed over the last ten years. It noted that
about three-quarters of the projects are being implemented by State governments of varying administrative
capacity and that this leads to a marked variation in performance among both sectors and States. The CAS
also explained the decline to around 15 percent in the disbursement ratio for investment projects
(disbursements as a share of funds committed and undisbursed). Reasons included the ongoing fiscal
adjustmene which had reduced budgetary funds particularly at the state level and the real depreciation of the
rupee which had reduced the dollar equivalent of rupee disbursements in projects with a high proportion of
local expenditure. These factors have exacerbated the long standing problem of project start-up delays
associated with slow and cumbersome decision making processes for procurement, together with complex
budgetary processes for channeling funds to state-implemented projects. The CAS also noted that efforts to
build up the Bank's portfolio in the social sectors and in the poorest States have intensified these problems
because those sectors and States are also the ones with the weakest administrative capacities.
70.   Last year's CAS outlined the strategy adopted by the Government and the Bank to tackle these
problems. This included the need (a) to keep new projects simple and avoid organizational complexity, (b)
for key actions on procurement, land acquisition and government clearances to be taken prior to project
approval, (c) to use private engineering consultants increasingly for supervision of construction work, (d) to
restructure projects where appropriate to achieve project objectives and to cancel components with little scope
for improvement, and (e) to improve the mechanisms for channeling central funds to states for externally-aided
projects. On the Bank side, we resolved to intensify our reviews of problem projects, to give more emphasis
to project-specific implementation plans, and to foster best practice supervision including mid term reviews
for all projects.
71.   The principles outlined above have continued to guide our approach to portfolio management and
"quality at entry" over the last 15 months. The increased use of procurement staff in the New Delhi Office
has helped to streamline our own handling of procurement issues. More focussed supervision has led to
quicker identification of problems which, along with more systematic follow-up on problem projects (those
with an overall status rating of 3 or 4), has reduced their number from 15 percent at the end of FY92 to under
10 percent now. This improvement has been achieved by a combination of cancelling non-performing projects
and components and improved performance, as some long standing problems were resolved.
72.     Equally important have been the steps agreed jointly with Government to deal with problems arising
from procurement procedures and the arrangements for improved flows of funds in the federal system. These
changes, which apply to all externally-aided projects, were announced at a special session on aid utilization
at the Aid India Consortium in June 1993. On procurement, the Government appointed a high-level task force
which has analyzed the reasons for delay in awarding contracts, suggested an optimum procurement cycle
compatible with international standards, suggested a workable mechanism to finalize the award of contracts
within a given time frame and recommended mandated standard bidding documents for various
purchases/works to avoid initial delays and to reduce interpretational problems. The Task Force's report,
which in addition to resolving several other issues also provides for the mandatory use of standard bidding



- 20 -
documents, has been completed. On the flow of funds, the Government decided that all public sector units
of the Center and other autonomous agencies should borrow directly from the multilateral/bilateral agencies
without the intermediation of Government on terms mutually agreed between the borrower and the lender.
This significantly reduces paper work and delays in the disbursement process. For projects implemented by
State Governments, where the additional funds from donors were previously not available from the center until
after the expenditures had been made, the Government agreed to a new syste.., of advances. Now, 25 percent
of the projected annual expenditure of each project being implemented by a State Government is released by
TABLE V: }NDIA-Selected Indicators of
Bank Portfolio Performance and Management
Indicator                                               FY91            FY92              FY93            FY94
Portfolio Performance
Cumulative Undisbursed (US$ billion)                     12.8             11.6             10.4               8.9
Number of Projects Under Implementation                   109             117               121               107
Averge Implementation Period (years)b                     4.7              5.2             5.1                5.5
Average Ratings
Development objectives'                               1.54            1.53             1.61               1.58
overall staus d                                       1.90            1.89             1.83               1.83
Percent of projects rated 3 or 4
Development objecdves                                 4.6              6.8              9.1               7.6
Overall statu                                        11.9             15.4             10.7               8.6
Cancelled during FY (US$ million)                        117.7           1,533.2          1,856.7           526.2
Disbursement atio (%)'                                   15.4             13.5             14.0              16.0
Disbursement lag '                                       26.8             21.8             15.2              34.4
Memorandum item: % completed projects
rated unsatisfactory                                                                                       55.0"
Portfolio Maement'
Supervision resources (total SWs)                      2,158.2          2,295.1          2,523.7            1,637.1
Average supervision (SWs/project)                        19.8             19.6             20.8               15.3
Supervision resources by location (in %)
Percent headquarters                                 59.1             61.1             57.8              59.7
Percent resident mission                             40.9             38.9             42.2              40.3
Supervision resources by rating category
(SWs/project)
Projects rated I or 2                                19.3             18.6             20.4               14.9
Projects rated 3 or 4                                23.7             25.8             24.9               18.7
Memorandum item: date of last CFPR                                                                       January 1994
FY94 data as of Mach 31, 1994.
Average age of projects in the Bank country portfolio.
c Extent to which the project will meet its development objectives (see OD 13.05, Annex D2, Preparation of ImWlementation Summary (Fonn 590).
4 Assessment of ovemrl perfomiance of the project based on the ratings given to individual aspects of project implementation (e.g., management,
availability of funds, compliance with legal covenants) and to development objectives (see OD 13.05, Annex P2, Preparation of Implementation
Summary (Form 590). The overall status is not given a better rating than that given to project development objectives.
Ratio of disbursements during the year to the undisbursed balance of the Bank portfolio at the beginning of the year: investment projects only.
Full-year esfimate.
 For all projects comprising the Bank's country portfolio, the percentage difference between actual cumulative disbursements and the cumulative
disbursement estimates as given in the Original SAR/PR Forecast- or, if the Loan amnounts have been modified, in the 'Revised Forecast." The
country portfolio disbursement lag is effectively the weighted average of disbursement lags for projects comprsing the Bank's county portfolio,
where the weights used are the respective project share in the total cumulative disbursement estimates.
" For current FY only: from the OED database. For reference, the percentage of unsatisfactory projects in the 1980 to vresent cohort is 27 percent.
Supervision resources do not reflect discounts for local staff and consultants.



- 21 -
the Center to the States in the first two weeks of the new fiscal year. Arrangements were also put in place
to ensure that these monies were passed promptly on to the project authorities. As with all new arrangements
in a complex federal system, some teething troubles are being experienced. However, the basic framework
is now in place to ensure that funding shortages become less of a constraint on the implementation of projects
financed by external donors.
73.   Regarding resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R) of people affected by Bank-financed projects, the
Department has undertaken the following activities:
o  All 19 ongoing projects with R&R requirements have been subjected to the intensive review
otherwise reserved for designated 'problem" projects. Where it was found necessary, remedial
action plans have been put in place or strengthened.
*  A comprehensive, across-the-board review of the R&R performance in ongoing projects and the
status of implementation of the various action plans was carried out in June 1993 and April 1994.
Overview and project-by-project reports were exchanged and discussed with the Government.5
*  Intensive collaboration between the Bank and the Government of India has resulted in the
formulation of several statewide and sectoral R&R policies. In the energy sector, NTPC as part
of the June 1993 Power Generation Project, introduced a comprehensive R&R policy to cover all
of its ongoing projects. A similar policy has been adopted by the Coal India Limited in the
context of a proposed Coal Sector Rehabilitation Project (FY95). In the water sector, the
Government of Orissa evolved a R&R policy in March 1994 consistent with Bank guidelines.
Tamil Nadu is currently preparing a similar policy.
3  Discussions have begun with several states on issues relating to R&R in urban areas, especially
for new infrastructure projects in transport, water supply, and sanitation.
*  A long-term R&R training program for Bank staff and Indian government officials has been
developed in collaooration with the Economic Development Institute. The first of these programs
was completed in India in October 1993 and a second is scheduled for June 1994.
74.   The third annual country portfolio performance review with government officials was held in January
in New Delhi. It was based on the Bank's annual ARPP for India and resulted in a specific and detailed action
plan for the year ahead. This action plan covers: (i) improved portfolio management; {ii) quality at entry, (iii)
flow of funds, (iv) project management issues, (v) environmental clearance, (vi) procurement, and (vii)
contract management. A particularly notable feature of the plan is the substantially increased emphasis it
places on borrower preparation efforts. This step is expected to substantially strengthen the readiness at entry
of the projects entering into the portfolio. The action plan, which incorporates the general principles set out
in last year's CAS and sununarized above, provides a detailed basis for monitoring progress in portfolio
management in the period ahead (see Attachment 3).
IFC and MIGA Activities
75.    India is IFC's largest client accounting for nearly 10 percent of IFC's total portfolio. Since 1959,
IFC has approved US$1.3 billion of investments in 71 Indian companies, including US$150 million in equity.
After rapid expansion in FY91 and FY92, IFC's investment approvals in FY93 amounted to only US$83
million, reflecting two emerging trends of Indian industry. First, the rapid devaluation of the Rupee in the
Resettlement and Rehabiliation, Ponfolio Status Update, Volumes I and U, June 1993; Resettement and Rebabiition in
Tn t- A                                                  v:l  -TFb nS T>rn;  -natm  -nnnsvTlnoeVOnTntnAa s



- 22 -
early 1990s made Indian companies cautious to take on external credit. Secondly, while most companies
engageA in some financial restructuring, actual investments in plant and equipment increased at a very slow
pace and due to the recession.
76.   In response to the policy and structural changes in India's economy, IFC attention in the industrial
field is concentrating on second tier companies quoted on the stock market. On a risk level, many of these
upcoming firms represent very good value, since they have qu;ckly developed a cost conscious management,
which has made many of these firms internationally competitive. With respect to sectoral emphasis, there is
an ongoing gradual change from the very capital intensive intermediate industries, such as cement and steel,
to the engineering industries (especially autos and auto parts) and service industries.
77.   In the infrastructure field, IFC is giving priority to projects with large foreign exchange content,
particularly in the power and hydrocarbon sectors, while in the financial sector special emphasis is given to
developing a number of private sector banks and other financial intermediaries. IFC also remains ready to
provide technical assistance for capital market development and invest in a variety of institutions ranging from
investment banking to stock brokerage and portfolio management. In support of foreign investment in India,
FIAS has completed a comprehensive study which reviews the current incentive framework and India's
promotional efforts in this area.
78.   As part of its efforts to increase foreign investment flows, India joined MIGA in January 1994.
Strong interest by foreign investors in MIGA's guarantee program, especiall}, for projects in the power,
telecommunications and manufacturing sectors, is expected to result in the completion of several projects in
the near future.
Donor coordation and external resource mobilization
79.   The Bank and the International Monetary Fund have closely collaborated in recent years in providing
policy assistance and mobilizing fast-disbursing support for the Government's adjustment efforts. A
twenty-month Stand-by Arrangement was completed successfully. With the comfortable reserve position, the
Government has announced that it will be repaying the IMF, in April L, '4, the entire obligations that fall due
in 1994/95. No EEF/ESAF is envisaged at this time.
80.   The Bank will continue its policy of regular consultation and coordination with the Asian
Development Bank (AsDB), which has over recent years substantially expanded its lending to India. As of
end-1992, total loan commnitments amounted to US$ 3,780 rnillion, of which US$ 2,536 million were
undisbursed. The recent opening of the AsDB Office in New Delhi will enhance the future Bank/AsDB
dialogue and coordination. Both institutions will intensify their efforts to coordinate policy dialogue and
assistance, particularly in the transport and power sectors where major reforms and investments will be
required.
81.   Finally, along with IFC and MIGA, the Bank is working to promote private foreign investment flows
to India, including portfolio investment, and to help improve India's access to international capital markets.
In this context, we will assess the case for selective use of the Bank's guarantee powers in lieu of increased
direct lending. The Department's efforts to expand and broaden the resource mobilization base for India's
key infrastructure projects will also continue to focus or. parallel cofinancing from suppliers and export credit
sources, primarily through the use of the limited international competitive bidding (LICB) technique, e.g., in
the ongoing power project with POWERGRID and proposed FY95 Coal Sector Restructuring Loan. Assuming
continued progress in macroeconomic stabilization and reform, the Bank would consider ECO operations that
would enable India to resume larger scale long term borrowing from private sources. Initially, ECO
operations would be considered in the context of supplementary financing for projects that involve other
sources of cofinancing; most probably in the power/energy sector. As market acceptance grows, ECOs for
other operations and other sectors may also become a possibility. As the reform process in India deepens,



- 23 -
particularly as regards privatization, the Bank would also be prepared to consider more complex ECO-type
operations and their variants, with a view to facilitating the inflow of private capital to the power, energy and
infrastructure sectors. It is expected that the initial opportunities for this kind of ECO application would
emerge from the work done under the FY93 Private Power Development TA loan and in the context of the
upcoming Financial Sector Development Loan (FY95).
E. Issues for Board Consideration
82.   The Bank's assistance strategy for the next three years will focus on supporting the Government of
India's efforts to strengthen macroeconomic performance and to broaden and deepen the structural reforms.
Based on the experience gained over the past two to three years with the pace of reforms, the lending program
for FY95-97 envisages 30-35 operations for a total of about US$5.5-6.5 billion -- roughly in line with the
numbers of operations and lending levels achieved during the last several years. This lending plan which is
summarized in Table IV, is predicated on significant further improvements in policies and continued strong
institutional reforms especially at the sectoral and state level. IBRD lending will be subject to much greater
year-to-year volatility than in the past because of the heavier sector policy content, fiscal stringency, and Bank
budget-induced shift to greater reliance on borrower preparation efforts. Moreover, the recent surge in private
non-debt capital, if continued, may reduce the demand for multilateral non-concessional funding.
83.   IDA lending levels will also be guided by progress in the reform program and the extent to which
India meets the criteria set by the IDA donors which strongly favor the use of IDA funds for projects which
aim at poverty alleviation, human resource development and environmentally sustainable development. For
the IDA program, the states' capacities for project and program implementation will be a major determinant
of the actual lending volume.
84.   The proposed assistance strategy places particular emphasis on promoting reforms at the State level
through an intensive dialogue with the most important States supported by State-level lending operations and
ESW. Our portfolio management strategy also involves continued use of the leverage of the Bank's existing
portfolio to support reforms at the State level. The greater focus on state level assistance will be more staff-
intensive for both the Bank and the Central Goverrment.
85.   UJnder the lending program envisaged for the FY95-97 period, the India sha;e of the IBRD portfolio
would decline from about 9.1 percent in 1993/94 to about 7.5 percent at the end of the decade. The servicing
burden of IBRD debt and IBRD share of India's public debt service is expected to remain within the Bank's
guidelines. The preferred creditor share of public debt service is projected to remain very close to the Bank's
guideline through much of the decade.
86.   While the Bank's exposure is expected to decline, the remaining risk stems from the possibility of
policy stagnation or slippage due to renewed political uncertainty or slowdown in the pace of reforms induced
by rapid improvement in the external capital account. There are also economic risks related to the pace of
adjustment especially at the level of the states and the robustness of the supply response. Offsetting these
risks, and strengthening its creditworthiness are India's impeccable debt service record, its high level of net
foreign reserves and substantial gold reserve stocks-and its significantly improved export performance.
Moreover, the projected continued high share of debt service to preferred creditors reflects in part our
assumption that the authorities' will continue their commendable recent efforts to reduce the stock of costly
and in part volatile commercial debt. In cooperation with the Fund, the Bank will continue to closely monitor
India's macroeconomic developments, with particular attention to export performance and the behavior of
inflows from direct and portfolio mvestments.
87.   Our assistance strategy has been formulated to address the risks noted above:



- 24 -
*  IBRD lenting is adapted to the increased availability of private capital but does not yet take this
new source as firm and reliable; for IDA lending, we assume that private flows cannot be
expected to substitute for the strategic contribution which IDA is making towards poverty
alleviation, human resource development, and the protection of the environment;
*  our lending will be copditioned on overall progress in improving macro-economic stability, sector
policies and portfolio performance;
*  our assistance plan emphasizes the importance of state-level adjustments and includes specific
support for strategically-placed sectors in important states;
*  portfolio management will be used to advance the reform agenda; and finally,
* we will maintain a readiness to meet, if justified, re-emerging exceptional financing requirements
through renewed adjustment lending based on continued intensive policy dialogue on the strategic
elements of the Government's ongoing adjustment program.
88.   However, given the relatively small financial and intellectual contribution which the Bank is making
to the complex task of restructuring this federated, continental economy, the management of these risks
ultimately depends upon the wisdom of India's representative Govermnent and the quality of governance.



- 25 -
ATTACHMENT 1
SECTORAL REFORM AGENDA TO BE SUPPORTED THROUGH IBRD/IDQ OPER&ATONS
Finandal Sector:
* Promoting efficiency and competition in banking and other financial services;
* further deregulation of interest rates;
* reduction in pre-emption of bank funds by government and rationalization of priority sector lending,
including rural credit;
* implementation of internationally accepted income recognition and capital adequacy norms;
* restructuring of publicly-owned banks, with particular emphasis on the weaker banks; and
* deepening of the government securities market.
Agriculure:
- Rationalizing public expenditures to reduce recurrent outlays and increase investment in public
infrastructure and improved technology;
* increasing cost recovery for government-supplied goods and services;
3 liberalizing internal trade;
- eliminating restrictions on agro-industries and on the movement of agricultural inputs and outputs;
- initiating a timebound program to improve the financial integrity and efficiency of rural financial
institutions and cooperatives; and
* improving natural resources management (forests and water) and strengthen local participation.
Family Welfare:
a Funding the operation of the Family Welfare Program increasingly at a level needed to provide fully
for required inputs in staff, equipment, pharmaceuticals, and maintenance;
* decreasing the emphasis on sterilization and increasing the focus on temporary methods;
* improving the logistical support for the family welfare system;
* focusing increasing attention on high fertility districts and urban slum areas;
* tapping PVO and private sector activities to enhance service delivery and monitoring;
* strengthening efforts outside the population field that can speed fertility reduction such as increasing
female education and training; and
* completing the development and targeting of the safe Motherhood Program.
Health:
* Revising funding patterns to focus public expenditure on adequate levels of public funding for high
return areas that benefit the poor, such as primary health care, endemic disease control, and public
health;
* reducing the share of public expenditure on health which goes to tertiary care and increasing cost
recovery among those who can pay for secondary and tertiary care;
* implementing the enhanced programs for AIDS, blindness control, leprosy control, and TB;
* developing enhanced approaches to more effective efforts in malaria;
developing improved technical standards for service deliverj at the secondary level and for the
training and utilization of health manpower; and
* tapping the private and PVO sector to enhance service delivery.



- 26 -
Nutrition:
* Revising funding patterns to focus attention on the malnourished, and on children under three years
of age;
* increasing access to programs for nutrition supplemnentation atnong the above groups;
* strengthening the effectiveness and efficiency of the ICDS program;
* strengthening the effectiveness and efficiency of programs for micro-nutrient supplementation
through more effective links with health and family welfare services and the private sector.
Education:
* Revising funding patterns to focus attention on basic education;
* reducing the share of public expenditure used for tertiary education and recovering a larger share
of costs from those who can afford to pay for tertiary education,
* improving access to primary education, particularly among girls in rural North India;
* enhancing the quality of basic education through better supervision, improved teacher training, more
appropriate leaming materials and improved monitoring and evaluation of educational outcomes;
and
* tapping PVO and private sector activities more effectively through grant and contractual
arrangements.
Power:
* Clear demarcation of functions between the State (regulation) and the power sector enterprises
(operations);
* restructuring of State power sector operations along commercial lines with significant private
participation, unbundling of services and introduction of competition in generation;
* reduction and progressive elimination of agricultural power subsidy, full coverage of the remaining
subsidy through State budgets and corresponding reductions in the cross-subsidies currently borne
by other consumer categories;
* improved collection of tariffs and control of widespread theft of power;
* financial work-outs to ensure that operating entities in the State power sector become financially
viable and creditworthy enterprises; and
* continued commercialization of the operations of the central entities - NTPC, POWERGRID and
the Power Finance Corporation.
Coal:
* Adoption of measures to improve efficiency of operation of Coal India Limited, including closure
of mines that are unlikely to become profitable;
* opening up of sector to private investment; and
* introduction of competition by reduction in the duty on imported coal and liberalization of internal
trade to strengthen incentives for production of higher quality coal.
Urban Infrastructwre:
* Clarification and assigmnent institutional responsibilities for service delivery and revenue collection
at the state and local levels including revenue sharing arrangements;
* increased resource mobilization through both taxation and user-charges at the local level;
* improved land management, with focus on the supply side and the efficient operation of property
markets; and
* establishment of organized lines of credit to local govermments for the financing of infrastucture.



- 27 -
Tnsport:
* Rationalization of container services on fixed schedules, delegation of more responsibilities to the
port authorities and the promotion of private participation in areas such as tenninal operations and
container handling;
* establishment of an effective, operational National Highway Authority, privatization of highway
engineering design and supervision services, rigorous prequalification of consulting engineers and
contractors together with sound competitive bidding procedures;
* significant increase in outlays for investment and maintenance on the congested road network, partly
financed through user fees and charges, including vehicle and fuel taxation; and
* adoption of measures to place the operations of Indian Railways on a sound commercial footing by
giving higher priority to profitable freight operations through reductions in subsidies for passenger,
suburban and meter gauge services and through the corporatization/pnivatization of its
manufacturing activities.



- 28 -
ATrACHMENT 2
COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
Environment
India completed in December 1993, a National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP). It was
submitted to the Bank in January 1994 in accordance with agreements reached under IDA 10; and as
outlined in OD 4.02 Environmental Action Plans.
*  India's NEAP has identified eight priority areas for action including: the reduction of industrial
and related pollution; conservation and sustainable utilization of biodiversity in selected
ecosystems including forests, mangroves and wetlands; improving access to clean technologies;
development of an alternative energy plan; and tackling urban environmental issues.
*  The Department is supporting the Government's stated priorities through a variety of lending
and sector work activities as follows:
Industrial Pollution. A second Industrial Pollution Prevention project is being processed for
approval in FY94. This is a followup to an earlier Industrial Pollution Control project and
emphasizes institutional development and support for capacity building of several State Pollution
Control Board (SPCB). Together the two projects cover 10 SPCBs which are located in the
most industrialized states in India. The project also addresses GOI's priority of clean
technologies, by supporting the establishment of a Clearing House for Clean Technologies,
waterless enhancements, common effluent treatment plants, and market-based incentives to curb
industrial pollution.
Biodiversitv and Sustainable Development. The Forestry Research and Education Extension
project (FY94) includes support for research on ecosystems, biodiversity and wildlife as part
of the forestry research program.
- Support for forest conservation was continued this year through the Andhra Pradesh Forestry
project which includes a significant component for the protection of indigenous people and
biodiversity. Preparation is progressing for similar projects in Madhya Pradesh and Bihar.
- For possible GEF support, a series of Ecodevelopment projects which have as the main
objective, the improved management of biodiversity in national parks, reserves and protected
areas is under preparation.
- The Bank is also assisting the Government of India to further develop and refme its
Biodiversity Action Plan as a framework for the ecodevelopment and biodiversity
conservation program.
Alternative Energy. The priority areas of clean technologies and alternative energy development
are expected to contribute to India's efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emission. A first
Alternative Energy project based on wind power, photovoltaics, biomass and mini hydros is
under implementation with GEF and IDA support. Work has been initiated on a comprehensive
energy and environment study. The focus of the Bank's assistance would be to identify the
most cost-effective options for acceleratng clean technologies, particularly clean coal



- 29 -
technologies, and the increased application of renewable energy technologies such as
photovoltaics and solar thermal power generation.
Urban Environment. The Bank is assisting the Government in the preparation of water supply
and sanitation projects, such as the proposed Bombay Sewage Disposal and Madras Water
Supply projects. Work on urban transport, under the proposed Bombay Urban Transportation
project, will also contribute to the alleviation of urban pollution. The project concentrates on
an integrated transport approach including railways, and is likely to reduce the use of more
polluting forms of transport.
* The Department is also actively working with the Environment Department on the Metropolitan
Environmental Improvemnent Program (MEIP), which now covers Bombay and is expected to extend
to Calcutta, as well as on the Urban Air Pollution (URBAIR) program which also covers Bombay.



- 30 -                ATTACHMIENT 3
INDIA:'TIIIRD COUN'I'RY P)ORT'FOLIO  I'ERFORMANCE REVIEW
JANUARY 13- 14, 1994
The third annual Country Portfolio Performance Review was held at the Department of Economic
Affairs, Ministry of Finance on January 13 - 14, 1994. The agenda and list of participants are attached
(Attachments I and 11).
Discussions took place on the following subjects -  flow of funds, procuiremiient, internal
Governcilneit of India clearance procedures for Bank investmiienlt projects, environmental clearances,
project management issues and review of pipeline projects. The need to build a healthy and strong
pipeline was emphasised; and it was decided that there should be close consultations between the
Department of Economic Affairs, the World Bank and the concerned line Ministries/ State Governments
during the project processing cycle. This would ensure formtulationl of (quality projects in line with
Governmenit of India's priorities.
The major areas whiere decisions for appropriate action were taken are provided in Attachment 111.
The management decision matrix will provide the basis for ensturinig improve(d portfolio managemiienit
practices in the comiiing 12 mIlonlths.
H.Ve                                                       N.K.'t 
Director                                            Additional Secretary (E F)
India Departet                                       Department of Elconotnic Affairs
World Bank                                               Ministry of Finanice
14.1.1994                                              Government of Indir
14.1.1994



- 31 -
THIRD COUNTRY PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE REVIEW
HIGHLIGHTS OF AGREED ACTIONS
(January 13-14, 1994)
Implementation Issue       Required Action              Responsible      Performance Indicator          Timing
__________________________   A gency            ______________
|. Improved
Portfolio
Management
Need for imnproved         Strengthening the            DEA              Appointment of staff at the level  April 1994
supervision and monitoring    administrative support in                  of Deputy Secretary/Director in
by Department of Economic   DEA for Social Sector                        charge of social sectors
Affairs (DEA) on generic    lending operations.
issues affecting the
Portfolio.                 Adequate staffung of the     DEA              Strengthened organizational    March 1994
Project Management Unit                       support.
(PMU) within DEA.
Quarterly review of Project    DEA            Improved project quality.      Immediate
Implementation at State level.
U. Qualty at Entry
All GOI clearances to be    DEA/WB            Loan signing and effectiveness    Ongoing
Delays in project signing  obtained prior to appraisal.                  within 3 months of Board
and effectiveness.                                                       approval
Mlm. Funding
Ensure adequate funds for    DEA to           Adequate funding for projects  March 1994/
Inadequate funds for project  project entities are providedi   coordinate with   for fiscal year 1994/95 and  April 1994
implementation and release   for FY 94/95. DEA to       Central          Actual release to project
of funds not on a timely  interact with the Planning    Ministries, State  entities.
basis.                     Commission. Continued        Governments
release of Advance Central  and Planning
assistance to States (25% of    Commission.
projected external flows) at
the begmning of each fiscal
year.
Ensure funds are provided to   State          Smooth project implementation.   April 1994
Funds being diverted once    Projects, especially in the  Governments
released to State          social sectors. State        DEA to monitor.
Governments in Central     Governments to earmark the    Bank supervision
Sponsored Schemes.        funds. Ministry of Finance    missions to keep
(MOF) to discuss with the   DEA informed.
State Governments.
IV. Project Management
Issues
Establish generally minimum    Central, State  Improved project               nmmediate
Turnover of key project    3 year term for key staff as  Government and   implementation.
staff.                     far as possible.             Executing
Agencies.
Slow implementation of TA
components.                TA components to be initated   Executing      Improved project                imnediate
at project start-up. Facilitate   Agencies.   implementadon. Expeditious
procedures for the recruit-                   appointment of consultants.
ment of intemational
consultants.



- 32 -
ImplemenatIon Issue  Required Action             Responsible Agency   Performance Indinator    Tmigng
V. Enviromentall
Clearance
Issues relating to   EIA to be forwarded by      DEA                 Smooth processing of the   Immediate
synchronizing Bank   DEA to the Bank with                            loan.
procedures with      necessary confirmation that
GOI's procedures.    the relevant clearances
(State Pollution Control
Boards, State environmental
agencies, etc.) have been
obtained. Any qualifications
and reservations to be
noted.
VI. Procurement
Fornal adoption of   GOI advise all              GOIVDEA             All agencies use same    February 1994
standard bid         States/Executing Agencies                       documents
documents            the requirement to adopt
standard bid documents as a
condition for negotiaton.
Bid validity and     Bid validity of 90 days to be  Executing Agencies    Procurement efficiency  At appraisal
contract award       the target.                                     & economy.
Develop disincendves for
delayed award decisions.
Detailed project     Appraisal not to take place    WB/DEA/          Procuement efficiency    Prior to appraisal
preparation (quality at  until acceptable quality of  Executing Agencies    & economy.
entry).               detailed engineering is
underway with competent
staff/consultants.
Encourage use of PPF.      WB/DEA/                                      When required.
Executing Agencies.
VII. Contract
Management
Supervision of works   Satisfactory arrangemnents to   Executing Agencies   Improved qualiy and  During project
(qualky assurance)   ensure quality of                               workmanship.            implementation
construction according to
specifications, through the
use of competent
staff/consultants
Independent Technical  Undertake study to promote   WB/DEA/Executing   Problem free           April 1994
Audit                the use of technical audits as  Agencies        implementation.
a means to improve quality
and accountability using IlDF
__ __ __ _ __ i_ _  grants..                                 _



- 33 -
Part II. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
89.   Sector Background. Despite impressive gains in several health areas, India continues to face a large
burden of chronic and infectious diseases including a variety of parasitic illnesses, blindness, tuberculosis (TB),
malaria, and leprosy. In addition, AIDS is now an important public health problem. The disease burden in India
is shifting from infectious and chronic diseases towards non-communicable diseases; however, the shift is slow
and the demands on the health system are increasing. In light of this, the GOI is revising its approach to health
care to improve the coverage of key health programs and enhance their efficiency and effectiveness.
90.   One of India's major public health problems is the staggering number of people blind from untreated
cataracts. India's blind population accounts for more than one third of the world's 35 million blind. About 13
million Indians suffer from bilateral blindness; 80% of them are blind from cataract, compared with 50% for the
rest of the world. An additional 10 million people are afflicted with cataract in one eye (unilateral cases). India's
prevalence of cataract blindness, 1.3%, is one of the highest in the world. Prevalence is higher among females
and rural populations. While the onset of cataract in other countries occurs generally after 60, in India, 40% of
the cases are found in the 40 to 60 year-old cohort. In addition to the social cost of blindness, the disability for
a potentially active segment of the population, combined with the overall burden of dependency, imposes a huge
economic cost. At present, India performs about 1.5 million cataract operations annually, while adding an
estimated total of 3.9 million unilateral and bilateral cases each year. Despite increased efforts by the National
Program for Control of Blindness (NPCB) and NGOs, India has been unable to expand satisfactorily its coverage
or improve the quality of cataract treatment. It is estimated that over 11 million surgeries will be needed over
the next seven years to address the backlog problem in the seven project states.
91.   Lessons of Experience. "Cataract-free-zone projects" in developing countries, and the work of donors
such as DANIDA and WHO, and of many NGOs, particularly in India, provide numerous lessons of experience
for cataract blindness control interventions. The technological transition experienced by developed countries also
offers useful lessons for project design. The major fmdings to date show that: (a) the appropriate choice of
surgical technique is critical for success and must be based on adequate diagnosis, appropriate medical
prescription, and availability of equipment and supplies; (b) the modern technique of Extracapsular Cataract
Extraction (ECCE) with intraocular lens (IOL) is the optimal surgical intervention for cataract treatment when
appropriate resources and skills are available; however, with adequate quality control, the conventional technique
of Intracapsular Cataract Extraction (ICCE) offers satisfactory sight restoration, greatly improving the quality of
life of totally blind individuals; (c) postoperative stays of more than three days are unnecessary if appropriate
medical standards are followed; (d) the decision to have surgery must be based on the patients' subjective
judgement of their visual needs; (e) poor surgical outcomes and several socio-cultural factors act as deterrents
to surgery and must be countered through better quality of care and health education with strong community and
NGO involvement.
92.   Experience of Bank-assisted Projects. The Bank Group's only experience in financing blindness control
includes the Riverblindness Control Program in Africa (WPS No. 0740) which does not provide applicable lessons
for the proposed project given that Riverblindness is caused by a parasitic worm and the project is executed by
WHO. However, several implementation-related issues have been learned from the Bank's investmnents in the
Population and Human Resources (PHR) sector in India. IDA has assisted in financing eight population projects,
one maternal and child health project, four nutrition projects, an AIDS control project and a Leprosy elimination
project. The key lessons learned from these projects include: (a) the need for strong project management teams
and staff continuity; (b) the importance of stakeholders' support and involvement in project preparation and
implementation; (c) the need for better training on administrative procedures and linkages with the district and
state levels; (d) the value of close supervision and follow up of the allocation of project funds and of expenditures
for timely and adequate disbursements; and (e) the need for attention to the qualitative aspects of projects.
93.   IDA L_ending Strategv and Rationale for Involvement. The country assistance strategy discussed in Part
I of this report is aimed at supporting GOI's efforts to provide an enabling environment for broad-based efficient
private sector-led growth while accelerating poverty alleviation and the development of human resources. In



- 34 -
health, IDA is supporting GOI through a two-pronged approach. It is assisting in financing interventions for
some of India's leading public health problems including TB, leprosy, malaria and AIDS, and it is supporting
individual states in improving the effectiveness of their health systems. The proposed project is consistent with
this strategy. It would address one of India's most extensive public health problems and build institutional
capacity to provide high quality eye care. IDA's involvement is justified on several grounds. First, the proposed
project aims at reducing inequalities and alleviating poverty by improving access to health services for rural
women and tribal groups. Second, the project would direct resources to one of the most cost-effective health
interventions as identified by the 1993 WDR. And third, IDA has a comparative advantage to serve as a catalyst
and facilitate the changes needed for blindness coatrol in India because of its cross-country experience and access
to a broad range of international expertise.
94.   Project Obiectives. The objectives of the project would be to upgrade the quality of cataract surgery,
expand NPCB coverage to underprivileged areas with special attention to women, tribal and other isolated groups,
and reduce the backlog of cataract blindness by reducing cataract prevalence by more than 50%, and blindness
incidence by more than 30% in the seven participating states.
95.   Project Description. The seven states selected for the project-Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh,
Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and Tamil Nadu-account for an estimated 70% of the cataract
blindness burden in India. The proposed project would help improve the effectiveness of the NPCB by: (a)
enhancing quality of care and exoandina service delivery through new strategies, policies, technical and
operational norms; increased use of modem surgical techniques; and expanded coverage of rural and isolated
populations with extensive NGO and private sector involvement; (b) developing human resources for eye care
delivers by strengthening selected training institutions, upgrading the skills of ophthalmic and other health
personnel, and providing management training for Central, State and District project managers; (c) promoting
outreach activities and public awareness by supporting NGOs and community involvement, and raising awareness
about cataract blindness through mass and traditional folk media, and interpersonal communications; and (d)
developing institutional capacity at the Central, State and District levels by strengthening their managerial capacity
and organzational arrangements, developing collaborative mechanisms with the non-government sectors,
introducing measurable monitoring mechanisms, and applying the findings from operations research. To a-^hieve
these objectives, the project would finance equipment and supplies, vehicles, civil works, training-related inputs,
support to NGOs, salaries, contractual services, publicity services and operations research.
96.   Program Objective Categories. Poverty Aspects. The project's main beneficiaries would be the poor in
the urban slums, and rural and isolated areas. The project design includes a variety of targeted interventions and
proven models of service delivery, such as eye camps, which have been successful in bringing the services closer
to the poor and reducing their transaction and opportunity costs. WID Aspects. It is expected that over 50%
of the beneficiaries would be women as the prevalence among them is higher than amnong men (1.6% and 1.4%
respectively). Appropriate measures have been introduced to facilitate women's access to cataract treatment
taking into account their lack of mobility, particularly in the case of women without male children. Indigenous
Populations. The project is in full compliance with Operational Directive 4.20 on Indigenous Popultions.
Beneficiary assessments carried out in selected tribal districts showed tribal populations with a rate o. prevalence
about one-fourth higher than non-tribal populations. Patient satisfaction, access to facilities and spectacles were
also found to be lower among tribal groups. The project makes special provisions to help expand and intensify
coverage of tribal and other areas isolated by water barriers and for culturally appropriate approaches to service
delivery based on proven models of success and with extensive NGO and community involvement. Private Sector
Aspects. At least 50% of the cataract workload during the seven years would be carried out through NGOs with
direct or indirect support from the project. Qualified private practitioners would be engaged through service
contracts to cover rural areas, and others would receive seed money to set up practice in areas with less than
50,000 population.



- 35 -
97.   Project Implementation. Implementation would be coordinated by the National Program Management
Unit at MOHFW. The unit, headed by a Project Manager at the level of Joint Secretary, would monitor project
progress and compliance with agreed policies and technical guidelines, carry out most of the procurement
activities, and coordinate the central aspects of the project's training and health education components. Project
implementation would be carried out by State Ophthalmic Cells in the State Goveroments and newly-created
District Blindness Control Societies (DBCSs). To facilitate implementation the Central Govenument would
channel most non-salary funds and inputs directly to the District level where service delivery would be more
extensive. Adjunct bodies such as the National Blindness Control Board and State Empowered Committees would
provide policy guidance and facilitate project implementation. The NPCB and the DBCSs would include
representatives of NGOs and the private sector. Many implementation activities would be carried out by NGOs
and private practitioners through arrangements with the DBCSs. NPCB will continue its collaboration with
external donors such as DANIDA and WHO.
98.   Project Costs. The NPCB is a centrally-sponsored program. The total cost of the enhanced program for
the seven-year project period, including current NPCB expenditures, import duties and taxes, would be Rs.
5,833.6 million (US$144.8 million equivalent). Present annual NPCB funding from the Center and the seven
states amounts to Rs. 41.4 million (US$1.27 million) and would be expected to continue during the seven-year
period. Taxes and duties are estimated at Rs. 192.8 million (US$ 4.7 million equivalent). The incremental cost
of the project, is therefore estimated to be Rs. 5,543.6 million (US$135.7 million). IDA v.ould finance US$117.8
million equivalent, covering 89.7% of the incremental net cost of the project. A breakdown of project costs and
the financing plan are shown in Schedule A. Retroactive financing of up to US$ 5 million equivalent, would be
provided to cover eligible expenditures incurred after March 1, 1993 to facilitate several ongoing start-up
activities. Schedule B shows the amounts and methods of procurement and disbursement schedule. A timetable
of key project processing events and the status of Bank Group operations in India are presented in Schedules C
and in Annex 5. The Staff Appraisal Report, No. 12246-IN, dated April 21, 1994, is being distributed
separately.
99.   Project Sustainabilitv. Upon project completion, the intensive phase needed to address the backlog, build
institutional and technical capacity and expand the role of the non-government sector in cataract treatment would
be concluded, and the NPCB would enter a maintenance phase in the seven states. It is expected that by project
completion, about 80% of the surgeries would be performed by NGOs and private practitioners either
independently or jointly with the government. Other sustainability measures include: building institutional
capacity at all administrative levels, keeping recurrent costs low, and introducing cost-recovery schemes. The
estimated budgetary increase required after project completion would average 1.2% of the states' 1993/94 health
budgets which is well within the future budgetary increases expected by the states.
100.  Agreements Reached. At negotiations, assurances were provided iointly by GOI and the participating
states that they would: (a) implement the project in accordance with agreed technical and operational standaras,
norms and procedures acceptable to IDA for all services delivered under the project; (b) maintain their respective
Project Management Units with staff and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA and appoint all staff of such units
by September 30, 1994; (c) conduct independent annual beneficiary assessments to measure patient satisfaction
and effectiveness of program implementation; (d) carry out a Project Implementation Review with IDA every two
years and take account of the findings of the Review during subsequent implementation activities. GOI also
provided assurances that it would (a) deliver a "package of inputs" to fully staffed facilities; and (b) complete
training curriculum and contracts with training institutions by August 31, 1994. In addition, the States provided
assurances that they would: (a) select NGOs and private practitioners on the basis of procedures and criteria
satisfactory to IDA; (b) implement the project activities among tribal and isolated populations according to the
agreed plan of action; (c) establish DBCSs for all districts by July 31, 1994; (d) enter into an implementation
agreement with the DBCS from each district, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA; (e) require project-



- 36 -
trained ophthalmologists to sign a bond to remain with the project for three years after training; (f) refund ie
states for expenditures incurred by the states through the DBCS only when the legal establishment of the DBCS
has been completed; (g) develop criteria and procedures for ophthalmic-related charges and introduce models of
cost recovery by December 31, 1995; and (h) establish a body to which a patient may lodge any grievance
relating to the treatment provided to that patient under the project.
101.  Project Benefits. The project would hap reduce the cataract blindness backlog and lower blindness
prevalence by 50% in the seven project states. It is estimated that an effective cataract program in India would
save about 2.4 million Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) annually, and more than US$357 million in lost
wages and injury-related health care expenditures over the seven years of the project. The project would greatly
improve the quality of eye care, build local capacity and promote private sector development. In addition, it
would reduce the burden of caring for the blind which affects mostly young women, increase the quality of life
of the individual and give access to services to the most disadvantaged groups. It would also prepare India to
face the demands of its growing elderly population. With the over-65 population expected to grow from 37
million to 102 million by the year 2025, the annual incidence of cataract would almost triple. Several studies
show that the economic returns from increased economic productivity following cataract surgery are estimated
at several times the cost of surgery in the first year alone.
102. Risks. The project would entail several risks: (a) Entrenched traditional practices could delay the
transition to the new program design. This is being addressed by GOI's and the states' formal commitment to
adopt into the NPCB the operational and technical standards developed during project preparation, and through
systematic training of project staff on the new program requirements. (b) Powerful stakeholders may obstruct
project implementation or gain favorable treatmenm through pressure. This would be countered by the clear roles
and accountabilities defined for NGOs, the government, and the ophthalmic community for project implementation
and monitored through several bodies. (c) Given the increasing interest in ECCE/1OL among ophthalmologists,
attention could be directed disproportionately towards tertiary and secondary facilities, at the expense of the
peripheral areas. This would be addressed by first strengthening service delivery in the rural areas; tying training
in ECCE, allocation of resources and staff recognition schemes to performce; and by focusing beneficiary
assessments mainly in rural areas. (d) About 10% of those getting cataract surgery will not have improved
eyesight, even under the most rigorous standards of care. To minimize the negative impact of such outcomes,
provisions have been made for "full disclosure" of information to the patient, obtaining "informed consent" as
necessary, and facilitating hearings from aggrieved patients through grievance committees. (e) Finally, given the
Borrower's mixed implementation record and the diversity among the seven states in their administration, service
capacity and NGO participation, it is difficult to guarantee equal performance in all areas. It is expected that this
risk would be reduced by the detailed and participatory nature of project preparation, the monitoring mechanisms
introduced in the design, and the carefully prepared implementation plans.
103.  Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement
of the Association and reconunend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 21, 1994



- 37-
SCHEDULE A
INDIA
CATARACT BLINDNESS CONTROL PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Eftimated ProagM Costs: /a
(Rupee Million)              (SUS Minlion)          %   % Total
Foreign Base
Component                                           Local  Foreign   Total        Local  Foreiun Total  ExchangeCosts
Quality Enhancement& ExpansionofServiceDelivery  3,219.7  651.7  3,871.4          98.8   20.0  118.8    17%   84%
Human Resources Development                          108.2   54.3   162.5          3.3     1.7    5.0    33%    4%
Promotion of Outeach Activities & Public Awaeness    246.7   79.2   325.9          7.6     2.4   10.0    24%    7%
stutionalDevelopment                                 238.1   21.7   259.8          7.3     0.7     8.0     8%    6%
Ttal BASELINE COSTS                                  3,812.7  80f.0 4,619.7        117.0   24.8   141.8    17%   100%
Physical Contgencies                               150.1   79.5   229.6          4.6     2.4     7.0    35%    5%
Price Contingenics                                 650.4  333.9   984.4         -7.0     3.0   *4.0   (77%) (3%)
Total PROGRAM COSIS                                  4,613.2  1220.4  5,833.6      114.6   30.2  144.8/a  21%   102%
/a Figures shown are the costs of the Enhanced NPCB in the seven slates plus the national program costs and are used
as the basis for calculating the increnm projec cost of USS 135.7 million. See also table 4.3 in the SAR for
explanaton of this calculation.
inandcing Plan:
Local            Foreign               Total
-------US$ Million---
Government                                             17.9                  -                17.9
IDA                                                    87.6                30.2               117.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                   105.5    30.2                           135.7



- 38 -
SCHEDULE B
Page 1
INDIA
CATARACT BLINDNESS CONTROL PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Prcurement Method
International    Local
Competitive Competitive        Consulting
Bidding    Bidding   Other   Services  N.B.F.       Total
Drugs/Sutures                     17.64            -   4.41                         22.05
(15.88)              (3.97)                       (19.85)
Equipment & Supplies              10.18                2.54                   -      12.72
(9.16)              (2.29)                      (11.45)
lOLs                               6.49                1.62          -        -      8.11
(5.84)             (1.46)                        (7.30)
Vehicles                           4.05                -             -        -      4.05
(3.64)                                            (3.64)
Spectacles                             -       5.31        -                  -      5.31
(4.78)                                (4.78)
Civil Works                            -      11.52    3.84          -        -      15.36
(9.22)  (3.07)                       (12.29)
Vehicle Operations & Maintenance       -          -   1.99                    -       1.99
(1.50)                        (1.50)
Misc Office Expenses                   -          -   4.18           -        -      4.18
(3.14)                        (3.14)
Support to NOOs & Private Sector                  -  29.38           -     0.25     29.63
(22.04)                      (22.04)
Equipment Maintenance                  -               2.65          -        -      2.65
(2.38)                       (2.38)
Publicity Services                                -   5.61                    -      5.61
(4.20)                        (4.20)
Contracul Services                     -           -   2.64          -        -      2.64
(2.11)                       (2.11)
Training Workshop Support              -           -       -      2.48        -      2.48
(1.98)             (1.98)
Salaries of Additional Staff                       -  26.67          -        -    26.67
(20.-7)                      (20.07)
Studies and Operational Research       -           -   1.32          -        -       1.32
(1.06)                        (1.06)
TOTAL                                  38.36       16.83   86.86       2.48     0.25    144.78
(34.52)    (13.99) (67.28)     (1.98)            (117.78)
NOTE: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts fianced by IBRD



- 39 -
SCHEDULE3 B
Page 2
DISBURSEMENTS
Category                   Amount               % of Expenditure
(US$ Million)          to be disbursed
(1)  Civil Works                   11.0              80%
(2)  Equipment, materials         46.0               100% of foreign expenditures,
supplies and                                    100% of local expenditures,
vehicles                                        (ex-factory cost) and 80% of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
(3)  Publicty services,           28.9               75%
services of NGOs; grants
t NGOs under Part A (7);
and incremental operating
and maintenance costs
(4)  Consultants' services,        4.7               80%
tiining
(5)  Salaries of Incraemental     20.0               90% of expenditures incurred
staff                                          during the first three finacial years commencing
with Credit effectiveness; 75% of such
xpeenditures incurred during the fourth and fifth
financial years and 60% of such expenditures
thereafter
(6)  Unalloted                     7.2
TOTAL                        117.8
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
IDA FY       FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99  FY00  FY01   FY02
Annua         7.7   13.2   18.3   18.0   18.7   17.8   18.1    6.0
Cumulative    7.7   20.9   39.2   57.2   75.9   93.7  111.8  117.8



-40 -                          SCHEDULE C
INDIA
CATARACT BLINDNESS CONTROL PROJECT
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
(a)    Time taken to prepare the project:   16 months
(b)    Prepared by:                     The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
with the Departnents of Health of the seven project
States.
(c)    First IDA Mission:               February 1992
(d)    Appraisal Mission Departure:     June 1993
(e)    Negotiations:                    January-February 1994
(f)    Planned date of effectiveness:   July 1994
(,)    List of Relevant PCRs and PPARs:  India: PCR - First Population Project (Cr. 312-IN),
May 19, 1981; PPAR No. 3748, December 31, 1981.
India: PCR - Second Population Project (Cr. 981-
IN), June 20, 1989; PPAR No. 8896, June 29, 1990.
India: PCR - Tamil Nadu lntegrated Nutrition Project
(Cr. 1003-IN), Novenber 26, 1989.
India: PCR - Third Population Project (Cr. 1426-IN),
August 25, 1993.



- 41  -                                           Amex 1
Page 1 of 3
INDIA - Key Economic Indicators
Actual                  Estimated              Projected
indicator
1989      1990     1991       1992       1993        1994        1995        1996
National accounts (%
GDP at current market prices)
Gross domestic product           100       100       100        100        100         100        100          100
Agriculture                    31.3      31.8      31.9       31.8       31.4        30.9       30.3        29.7
Industry                       29.1      28.8      27.8       27.4       27.3        27.3       27.3        27.5
Services                       39.6      39.5      40.3       40.7       41.3        41.8       42.3        42.8
Total consumption               76.2       76.5     76.6       76.6       75.7        76.2       75.9         75.7
Gross domestic fixed investment  22.8      23.1     22.0       21.3       20.9        20.3       20.6         20.9
Governmentinvestment            9.7       9.4       9.5       8.8        8.7         8.4         8.1         8.2
Private investment             15.5      15.9      14.1       14.7       14.4        14.2       14.7         14.9
(includes increase in stocks)
Exports (GNFS)                   7.8       7.9       9.3        9.8       11.3        12.3       13.2         14.2
Imports (GNFS)                  10.3       10.8      9.9       11.4       11.5        12.7       13.7         14.6
Gross domestic savings          23.8      23.5      23.4       23.4       24.4        23.8       24.1         24.4
Gross national savings a\       23.4      22.9      22.8       22.8       24.3        23.2       23.5         23.8
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product         272.5     295.8    251.1       243.7      249.8       260.1      273.0        287.4
(US$ billion at current prices)
Gross nationaI product per     353.9     359.1    328.5       307.5                -                -            -
capita (US$, Atlas metod)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1980
prices)
Gross domestic product at       5.6       5.2       1.8       4.0        3.8         4.5         5.0         5.5
factor cost
Gross domestic income           5.3       5.0       1.3       4.7        3.4         4.8         5.3         5.5
Real annual per capita
growt rates (%, calculated
from 1980 prices
Gross domestic productat        3.4       3.1       0.0       2.1         1.9        2.7         3.1         3.8
factor cost
Total consumption               2.9       1.1       2.0        4.5        3.0        2.2         2.6         3.3
Private consumption             2.8       1.2       2.6       4.8        2.6         2.2         2.6         3.5



- 42  -
Page 2 of 3
INDIA - Key Economic Indicators
Actual                  Estimated               Projected
Indtcator
1989      1990      1991      1992        1993        1994       1995         1996
Balance of payments
(USSW)
Exports (GNPS)                 21201      23411    23425      23994      28310       32013       36147        40719
Merchandise f.o.b.            16955      18477    18223      18789      22560       25896       29641       33790
lImports (GNFS)                27934      32063    24873      27880      28845       33035       37318        42062
Merchandise c.i.f.            24411     27914    20347       22895      23660       27438       31306       35632
Resource balance                -6733     -8652    -1448      -3886        -535       -1022      -1171        -1343
Net currentransfers             2756       2482     3111       2556       4000        2982        2966         2940
(including official current
trnsfers)
Current account balance         -7630    -10447    -2890      -5277        -757       -2575      -2692        -2873
(before official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct
investment                       350        165      148        435       4100        3000        3000         3000
L ong-termn loans (net)
5816      4206      3313      4493        5837        1710        1981        1043
OfficiaJ
2480      2356      2954      2729        2695        1979        1909        2220
Private
3336      1850      359        1764       3142        -270         72        -1177
Other capital (net. including
errors and omissions)           1122       2816     1614       -269       -1281        -675       -650         -625
Change in gross reserves
(+ = increase)                  -850      -1771     3384       1027       8590         700         400           0
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP       -2.5      -2.9      -0.6      -1.6       *0.2         -0.4       -0.4         -0.5
at current mnarket prices)
Real annual growth rates
(1980 prices)
Merchandise exports
(comrnerce)(f.o.b.)            16.1       9.7       7.9        9.5       17.2         12.9       11.2         10.9
Prrmary                       23.8      12.9      -2.9        3.7       19.3        13.7        12.1        11.1
Manufacturers                 13.4       8.5      12.2       11.5       16.5        12.6        11.0        10.9
Merchandise imports
(commnerce)(c.i.f.)             3.9        3,S     -9.8       17.7        3.7         17.1       10.5         10.0
Pubc fhiance (% of GDP at
crrent mrarket prIces) b
Current revenues                 24.6      23.7      23.7       23.3       22.9        23.5       24.2         24.3
Current expenditures             24.5      23.8      23.6       23.0       24.0        23.9       23.2         22.3



- 43 -
Annex I
Page 3 of 3
INDIA - Key Economic Indicators
Actual                  Estimated                Projected
Indicator
1989      1990      1991       1992       1993         1994        1995         1996
Curent account sufplus(%)         0.1       .0.1       0.1        0,4       -1.2         -0.4         0.9         2.0
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure               9.6       10.1       8.7        8.9        8.9          8.5         8.2         8.3
Foreign financing                  1.3       0.8       0.9        1.4        1.2          1.0         0.8         0.5
Monetary Indcators
M3/GDP (at current market        0.51       0.51      0.52       0.51       0.54         0.54        0.54        0.54
prices)
Growth of M3 (%)                  15.3      15.1      19.4       14.2        18.2        12.5        12.5        12.0
Private sector credit/           0.49       0.47      0.47       0.61       0.38        0.48         0.55        0.62
total credit (%)
Price  ies (1980=100)
Merchandiseexportprice            115        115      105          99        100         100         102          104
index
Merchandise import price           99        109       97          93         92          91          95           99
index
Tems of trade index               116        106       108        107        108         110         108          105
Real exchange rate                 76        73        60          54         52                 -                  -
(US$SLCU) c
Real interest rate                6.4        3.5       4.8        9.3        6.5
Consumer price index              6.2        9.0      13.9       10.4                       -          -            -
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator (% growth rate)      8.6       10.7      14.6        9.6        8.5         7.5         7.0          6.0
Note - indicates that data entries are not required.
a Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
b General government and non-financial public enterprises.
c A decrease in US$/LCU denotes depreciation.



- 44 -
Annex 2
INDIA - Key Exposure Indicators
Actual                  Estimated                Projected
Indi ator            -                       
1989      1990      1991       1992        1993        1994        1995         1996
Total debt outstanding and      75879      83596    85148       91579      96334       95602       94871        94088
disbursed (TDO) (US$m) a\
Net disbursements (US$m) a\      2385       1379    -1001        457         471        -4599      -4719        -4893
Total debt service (TDS)         6331      7095      7791        7820       8809        10620      11366        13041
(US$m) a\
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGS b\                     319.1      326.4    326.0       348.9      305.6       274.0       242.9        215.6
TDOIGDP                         27.9       28.3      33.9       37.6       38.5        36.8        34.8         32.7
TDS/XGS b\                      26.6       27.7     29.8        29.8       27.9        30.4        29.1         29.9
Concessioral/TDO                33.8       32.7     34.6        35.3       35.3        37.3        39.4         41.5
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS               20.1      20.2       18.5       24.3       21.5        19.9        19.6         15.5
Preferred creditor              52.5      40.9      34.2       41.7        33.8        44.3        48.8         31.7
DS/public DS
IBRD DSlXGS bl                   3.7       4.2       4.5        5.2         4.8         4.5         4.2          3.8
IBRD porffolio share             7.9       8.4       8.9         9.0        9.1         8.8         8.5          8.1
IFC (US$m)
Loans                                   -         -          -          -                       -            -
Equity and quasi-equity
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt (including non-resident deposits), private nonguaranteed debt, use of IMF credits, net short-term
capital and debt to Russia.
b. IXGS' denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' rezaittances.



- 45 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
INDIA - Bank Group Fact Sheet. FY89-97
(IBRD/IDA Lending Program)
[                   Category                        FY89-91         FY92-94        FY95-971
l Commitments (US$ million)                            7,026          5,984           6,690
Sector (%)
Agriculture                                           17              16.8            20
Power                                                 24             26               16
Oil, Gas+Coal                                         11              0.2              5
Transport Telecom                                      4              7                8
Urban and Water                                        3              2               14
Industry & Finance                                    20              2                8
Health+Nutrition                                      10              15              14
Education                                              8              3                8
Disaster Relief                                        3              4                -
Adjustment                                                           16                -
Social Safety Net                                                     8                7
Total                                                  100            100             100
Lending Instrument(%)
Adjustment Loans                                       0              16              0
Investment Loans                                     100             84              100
Total                                                100            100              100
Disbursements (US$ mill.) 2
Adjustment Loans                                       0           1,305               0
Investment Loans                                   6,252          4,923            5,100
Repayments (US$ mill.)                               1,447.6        2,478.0         3,183.0
Interest                                             1,970.9        2,489.0         2,638.0
Planned.
2 FY94-97 are estimates.



- 46-
Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
INDUI - IFC( Program. FY 92-94
Category                       FY92              FY93             FY94 '
IFC approvals (US$m)                                151.12             82.58           232.77
Scctor (%)
Agribusiness
Capital Markets                                      4                 20                9
Chemicals/fertilizers                                                                    4
Infrastructure                                      34                  5               45
Manufacturing                                       62                 74               42
Oil/mining                                                              1
TOTAL                                             100               100               100
Investment instrument (%)
Loans                                               85                 58               68
Equity                                              14                 24               28
Quasi-equity 2                                        1                18                4
TOTAL                                            100                100              100
100
FY94 estimaes.
2 Includes quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instrmeDts.



- 47 -
India                                          Page 1 of 2
Most Sam  regItAo4ocome group      NedW
Latsuingoleyer          m                                  higher
Unit of                                eAWte         South       Low.      Incom
Indkator                                    teumn           1970-75    1980-85    1987.92        Asiwa     income       gSap
Priority Poverty Indicators
POVERTY
Upper poverty line                        local cur.             ..         ..       1,296                      ..
Headcount Index                          % of pop.              43         ..          25         28          19
Lower poverty line                        local curt.            ..         .. .o
Headcount index                          % of pop.              ..         ..          ..
GNPpeacapita                                USS                 160        290         310        310         390
SHORT TERM INCOME INDICATORS
Unskilled urban wages                    local urt.              ..         ..          ...
Unskilled utral wages
Rura tersof trade                                                8..         4          94
Consumerprice index                       1987-100               45         85         161
Lowcr incone
Food'                                                           27         83         147
Utban                                                            ..        ..         ......
Rural
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expendiwute on basic social sevices  % of GDP              ..         ..         ..
Gross enrollment ratios
Pimary                                 % schoolagepop.           79         96         103         103        103
Male                                                            94        111         117         117        113
Fanale                                                          62         S0          88         88          96
Morlity
Infant mortlity                      perthou. live births    132.0       108.0       79.0        85.0        73.0       45.0
Undet 5 mortality                                               ..          ..       105.8      116.0       108.0        59.0
Imnunllon
Meales                                  % age group              ..         ..       56.0        56.6        72.7
DPT                                          S                   ..       41.0       79.0        75.0        80.6
Child malnuuition (under-5)                                      ..        49.3       63.0        60.9        38.3
Life exectan
Totl                                       ys                   50         55          61          -0         62          68
Female advntge                                                 -1.9       .0.4        1.1         1.0         2.4         6A
Totalfertlltyrate                      bithsperwoman            5.6         4.8         3.7        4.0         3A          3.1
Matemal motnlity tae                 pa 100,000 live birhs       ..        460           ..
Supplementary Poverty Indicators
Expenditures on social security       % of total gov't exp.       ..         ..         ..
Social seurity coage                  Yecon. active pop.         ..          ..         ..
Accesstosafewatertotal                    %ofpop.              31.0        57.0       75.0        71.9        68.4
Urban                                                        80.0       76.0        79.0       74.2        78.9
Rural                                      ^                 18.0       50.0        73.0       70.0        60.3
Acce  to health care                                             ..        75.0         ..
Population growth rate                GNP per capita growth rate                   Development diamondb
(annual aveage, percent)                  (mnual ra, percent)
104                                                 Life expetncy
4,
I O                                                  I l  '  l   l  '  l   +  |   *5  t  capita   \ /   enrollm ent
*    1970-75  198045   1987-92              1970-75    198045    1987.92               Access to safe water
a  India                                                                                 _ India
-    Low.income                                                                               Low-Incom
a. See the technical notes, p389. b. The development diamon4d based on four key indicar shws the avaWge level of development In the county
compared with its income wup. See the Introdution.



48  -                         ~~~~~Annex 4
India                                         Pg 
Me"t Sagge rIOfthiiSCOiUIVg0NW
Latet $Wleyea           ft.o.u                              hrigh
(halt Of                                esonasc      South        Law-      LW~au
lWam"                          ~~~~~~nvasau   1970-175    195045          1987-92       Auia    ine~u         uowqp
Resources and Expenditures
HUMAN RESOURCES
Populatdon (tnremlI92)                     thousads          613.459     765,147     883.570   1.177.918   3,194,535    942.47
Age dependency ratio                         ratio              0.77        0.72        0.70        0.73       0.67        0.66
Utban                                      % of pop.            21.3        24.3        26.0        25.4       26.7        57.0
Population rowthratee                      annual%               2.3         2.0         2.0         2.1        1.8          1.4
Urban                                        113.7                          3.0         3.0         3.4        3.4         4.8
Labor force (15.64)                        thousands         243,481     293,193     335.523    428,847   1.478,954
Agriculture                             % of labor force          71         70            ..
Irndustr'                                                         13          13
FemaWe                                                            28         26          25          22          33          36
Females per 1 00 males
Urban                                      number                81         88           .
Rural                                                            96         94           .
NATURAL RESOURCES
Area                                     thou. sq. Iam       3,287.59    3,287.59    3,287.59    5,133.49   38,401.06   40,697.37
DenIty                                  pop. per sq. Ian       186.6       232.7       263.6       224.8       81.7        22.8
AgricWulura land                         % of land area         60.8        60.9        61.0        58.9       50.9
Change In agricultural land                annual %              0.5        -0.1         0.1        -0.2        0.0
Agricultural land under irrigaton             %18.7                         23.1        25.2        29.0       18.2
Forest and woodland                      thou. sq. kan           656        672         670
Deforestaon (net)                          wmual %                 ...0.6
INCOME
Household income
Shareof top 20%/oofhouseholds            % oflincome             49         4 1         4 1         4!1         42
Share of bottom 40% of households             a1 6                          20          2 1         2 1         1 9
Shareof bottomn20%/oof households                                 6          8           9           9           8
EXPENDITURE
Food                                       % of GDP             43.6        35.3          .
Staples                                                        20.6        12.4          .
Meat fst. milk, chee. egp                     ',6.5                         7.41
Cerea Impofts                         ftou. metrc tonns        7.669        205        3,044       7,721     46,1537     74,924
Food aid in cereas                                             1,582        304         299        2,558      9,008       4,054
Food prductlon percaplta                  1987-100               100         III         121        116         123
Fertilize  WosmpinMg                                            19.3        47.0        70.3        71.5        61,9
Share Of agiclur    DP W                   %of GDP              36.6        29.5        38.8        28.7       29.6
Rousin                                     % of ODP              4.4         7.1          .
Averag household size                 persons pe household       5.2           ..
Urban                                                           4.8           ..
Fbixe 1n-esbneit. housing                  % of GDP              2.3         2.8J
Fual and power                             % of GDP              2.4         2.3
Ene   orgyosumptionpercapita             kg of ol equiv.         124         170        235         209         335        1,882
Households with elceticty
Urban                                  % of households            .           ..
Rtura
Transport and communIatIon                 % of GDP              4.7         5.1          .
Fixed lnwesUneL otrasport equipment                               1.4I       2.3           .
Tota road length                           thou. km            1.375       1,S46       1,636
INVSTMNTIN HUMAN CAPITAL
Health
Population per physician                    persons            4,900       2,522       2,459       2,459
Populton pernu"me                                              3,710       1,701          .
Population per hospital bed                                    1,700       1,300       1,371       1,652       1,050        516
Oralrehydyraton theray (under-$)           % ofcasm                ..                     14         i8          39
Eduatidon
rosenrwolmentrato
Secondary                   ~~~~~~~% of school.agepop.  26          38          44         40          4 1
Female                           '~~~~                          ~~~~~ ~ ~ 16  26  32     29         35
Pupil-teache ratio: primary             pupils per teacher        42          58         60          59          37          26
Pupil-teahe ratio: seondary                    a                  2 1        2 1         23          23          19
Pupllsfeaching grde 4                     %Of cohort              S I8               so
Repeawe raz: primary                    % oftota enrol            17
HIlleacy                              % ofpop. (age 15+)         66         56          52          54          39
Female                                % Of remr.(OFgIS+)         ..71                   66          68          52
Ne.w.Wpcapecruatlon                      per thou. M.             15         20           ...                     .100
wori Kmci emarm,KAn 



- 49  -                                         Annex 5
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIh
STATEMENT OF OANM LOANS AND IDA CRFDITS
(As of March 31, 1994)
Undisbursed          Last ARPP
USS million             Relative to        Supervision Rating'
(net of cancellations)      Appraisal       ----------------------
Loan/     FY of                                            ----------------------------------  Projections *   Development  Overall
Credit #  Approval              Purpose                      IBRD       IDA 1/  Undisbursed 2/  (USS million)   Objectvies   Status
1/      113 Loans/                                           8939.6
1/      169 Credits fully disbursed/cancelled                           12988.1
1356-IN    1983    Upper Indravati Nydro Power                 -         170.00          11.29           11.29        3            3
2442-IN    1984    Farakka II Thermal Pover                  278.80        -             36.49           36.49         1           2
1496-IN    1984    Gujarat Medium Irrigation                             151.17          12.74           12.74        2            2
SF-20-IN   1984    Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric                -          13.84          17.65           17.65         1           1
SF-16-IN   1984    Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation                -          17.50           2.55            2.55         1           2
1426-IN    1984    Population III                              -          70.00           1.08            1.08        2            2
1424-IN    1984    Rainfed Areas Watershed Dev.                -          22.3S           2.05            2.0S        2            2
SF-12-IN   1984    Tamil Nadu Water Supply                                36.50           2.74            2.74        1            2
1454-IN    1984    Tamil Nadu Water Supply                     -          36.50          10.76           10.76        1            2
1483-IN    1984    Upper Gangs Irrigation                      -         105.43          10.68           10.68        2            i
2S44-IN    1985    Chandrapur Thermal Power                  280.00        -             80.60           80.60         1           1
1613-rN    1985    Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric                -          13.20          15.26           16.26        1            1
2582-IN    1985    Kerala Power                              156.00        -             87.08           87.08        3            3
2534-IN    1985    National Highways                         133.00        -             31.38           31.38        2            2
1665-IN    1986    Andhra Pradesh 1I Irrigation                -         140.00          22.70           22.70        3            3
2660-IN    1986    Cement Industry                           165.00        -             15.52           1S.S2         1           2
2674-IN    1986    Combined Cycle Pover                      485.00        -             15.2S           15.25        1            2
1643-IN    1986    Gujarat Urban                               -          50.34          17.43           17.43        2            2
2661-IN    1986    ICICI - Cement Industry                    35.00        -              3.48            3.48         1           2
1622-IN    1986    Kerala Water Supply and Sanitation          -          21.80           4.63            4.63        2            2
1621-IN    1986    Maharashtra Composite Irrigation            -         128.82          94.94           94.94        1            2
1631-IN    1986    National Agricultural Research II           -          57.21          14.99           14.99        2            2
1619-IN    1986    West Bengal Minor Irrigation                -          45.45          18.35           18.3S        1            1
1623-IN    1986    West Bengal Population                      -          'S.85          10.81           10.81        1            1
1737-IN    1987    Bihar Tubewells                             -          '2.29           7.48            7.40        2            2
1750-IN    1987    Bombay Water Supply & Sewerage III          -         345.00          65.05           65.05        1            2
2769-IN    1987    Bombay Water Supply & Sewerage III         30.00        -             30.00           30.00        1            2
2796-IN    1987    Coal Mining & Quality Improvement         323.06        -             30.74           30.74        2            2
1757-IN    1987    Gujarat Rural Roads                         -          96.75          38.4S           38.45        1            1
2846-IN    1987    Madras Water Supply                        53.00        -             24.26           20.76        2            2
1754-IN    1987    National Agric. Extension III               -          66.62          17.51           17.51        1            1
2844-IN    1987    National Capital Pover                    373.00        -             82.50           82.50        1            2
1770-IN    1987    National Water Management                   -         114.00          28.78           28.78        2            2
2785-IN    1987    Oil India Petroleum                       140.00        -              S.11            3.01        1            2
2845-IN    1987    Talcher Thermal                           367.00        -            179.50          127.50        1            2
2813-IN    1987    Telecommunications IX                     168.00        -              4.83            4.e3        2            2
1780-IN    1987    Uttar Pradesh Urban Development             -         120.95          55.44           5S.44        2            2
1931-IN    1988    Bombay & Madras Population                  -          57.00          16.43            0.39        1            1
2928-IN    1988    Indus. Fin. 4 Tech. Asst.                 360.00        -             41.55           38.37        2            2
2893-IN    1988    National Dairy II                         200.00        -            148.28         135.28         1            2
2935-IN    1988    Railway Modernization III                 270.00        -             26.90           26.90        1            1
1923-IN    1988    Tamil Nadu Urban Dev.                                 254.73         104.04         104.04         1            2
3093-IN    1989    Electronics Industry Dev.                   8.00        -              7.S0            7.50        2            2
3058-IN    1989    Export Development                        120.00        -              9.S1            9.51        2            2
3096-IN    1989    Maharashtra Power                         354.00        -           264.84          1SO.14         1            2
3024-IN    1989    Nathpa Jhakri Power                       485.00        -            416.46         178.76         1            2
1952-IN    1989    National Seeds III                          -         147.24          55.64          48.90         2            2
2022-IN    1989    National Sericulture                                  133.35          67.18           24.18        2            2
2057-IN    1989    Nat'l. Family Welfare Trng.                            72.76          40.84           40.84        2            2
3044-IN    1989    Petroleum Transport                        so.00        -             15.00           15.00        2            2
1959-IN    1989    States Roads                                -          80.00           0.01
2994-IN    1989    States Roads                              115.00        -             98.52           98.53        2            3
2010-IN    1989    Upper Krishna Irrigation II                 -         160.00          65.39           65.39        2            3
3050-IN    1989    Upper Krishna Irrigation II                45.00        -             45.00          45.00         2            3
2008-IN    1989    Vocational Training                         -         163.85         106.62          106.62        3            3
3196-IN    1990    Cement Industry Restructuring             300.00        -            140.20           90.20        1            2
2115-IN    1990    Hyderabad Water Supply                      -          79.90         S.59             8.79        1            1
2064-IN    1990    Industrial Technology Development           -          55.00          47.28           47.28        1            2
3119-IN    1990    Industrial Technology Development         145.00        -             72.67           55.67        1            2
3237-IN    1990    Northern Region Transmission              485.00        -           446.64          233.84         3            3
2133-IN    1990    Population Training VII                     -          63.96          40.12           22.92        2            2



-50-                                            Annex 5
Pvage 2 of 4
Undisbursed           Lsst ARPP
USS Million             Relative to        superviSion Rating -
Inet of cancellations}      Appraisal       ---------------------
Loan/     FY of                                           --------------------------^-------  Projections *   DevelOpment   overall
Credit #  Approval             Purpose                      ISRD       IDA I/  Undisbureed 2/  (USS million)   Objoctvies    StStus
3239-IN    1990    Private Power Utilities I (TEC)           98.00                      31.51          18.42         1           2
2076-IN    1990    Punjab Irrigation/Drainage                 -         14S.28         113.44          44.67         1           2
2158-IN    1990    Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition II         -          67.52          49.84           9.32         1           2
2130-IN    1990    Technician Education I                     -         210.74         146.90          49.86         2           2
2100-IN    1990    Watershed Development (Hills)               -         7S.00          57.67          33.67         2           2
2131-IN    1990    Watershed Development (Plains)             -          SS.00          47.65          10.15         2           2
3325-IN    1991    Dam Safety                                23.00                      23.00
241-IN    1991    Dam Safety                                  .         130.00         123.27          42.56         1           2
3364-IN    1991    Gas Flaring Reduction                    4S0.00        -             44.92         -19.83         1           1
2173-IN    1991    ICDS I (Orissa & Andhra Pradesh)           -          74.35          52.77         -18.21         2           2
3334-IN    1991    Industrial Pollution Control             124.00        -             66.64
2252-IN    1991    Industrial Pollution Control               -          31.60          31.01         -28.4S         I           I
2234-IN    1991    Maharashtra Rural Water Supply             -         109.90          88.36          30.9S         2           2
3258-IN    1991    Petrochemicals II                         12.00        -             11.00
3259-IN    1991    Petrochemicals II                        233.00        -            145.78          37.28         2           2
3344-IN    1991    Private Power Utilities II (BSES)        200.00        -             90.73          31.43         1           1
2215-IN    1991    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Development        -          92.80          68.62
3300-IN    1991    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Development       20.00        -             20.00          13.92         1           2
2223-IN    1991    Technician Education II                    -         255.73        210.62           50.68         2           2
2300-IN    1992    Child Survival and Safe Motherhood         -         214.SO         1S1.99          74.4S         2           2
2394-IN    1992    Family Welfare (Urban Slums) *-            -          79.00          81.49          16.44         1           1
2328-IN    1992    Maharashtra Forestry                       _         124.00        114.92            6.66         2           2
2350-IN    1992    National AIDS Control                      -          84.00          69.58          12.33         1           1
3436-IN    1992    Power Utilities Efficiency               265.00        -           250.98           69.88         1           2
3498-IN    1992    Second Maharashtra Power                 350.00        -           329.72           39.12         1           1
3470-IN    1992    Second National Highway                  153.00        -           153.00
2365-IN    1992    Second National Highway                    -         153.00         153.41           9.30         2           2
2329-IN    1992    Shrimp and Fish Culture                    -          85.00          83.43          20.64         2           2
2341-IN    1992    West Bengal Forestry                       -          34.00          24.06          24.06         2           2
2433-IN    1993    Agricultural Development Rajasthan         -         106.00          94.11          -2.90         1           1
2439-IN    1993    Bihar Plateau Development                  -         117.00         107.8S           3.36         2           2
2450-IN    1993    Jharia Mine Fire Control                   -          12.00          11.65           4.95         1           1
2483-IN    1993    Karnataka Rural water Supply               -          92.00          88.33           2.42         1           1
2528-IN    1993    National Leprosy Elimination               -          85.00         81.71            9.45         1           1
3632--IN    1993    NTPC Power Generation **                400.00        -           400.00           52.51         1           2
3630-IN    1993    Power Finance Corporation                 20.00        -            20.00            3.00        1            1
3577-IN    1993    Powergrid System Development             350.00        -           323.13           14.24        3            3
3544-IN    1993    Renewable Resources Development           7S.00        -            53.88           53.88        1            1
2449-IN    199t    Renewable Resources Development            -         11S.00        112.24          112.24         1           1
2409-IN    1993    Rubber                                                92.00          89.72           5.21         1           2
2470-IN    1993    Second Integrated Child Dev.               _         194.00        190.48            9.76         2           2
2448-IN    1993    Social Safety Net Sector Adjustment        -         SOO.00        2S0.47          250.47        2            2
2509-IN    1993    Uttar Pradesh Basic Education              -         165.00        156.24           -3.69         1           1
2510-IN    1993    Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands Reclam.          -          54.70         53.10            3.35         1           1
2572-IN    1994    Forestry Research Education *              -          47.00         47.74            0.00      N/A          N/A
25?3-IN    1994    Andhra Pradesh Forestry *-                 -          77.40         78.53            0.00      N/A          N/A
2592-IN    1994    water Resources Consol. (Naryana) '        -         258.00        264.53            0.00      N/A          N/A
2594-IN    1994    Maharashtra Energency Earthquake *-        -        246.00         249.98            0.00      N/A          N/A
Total                                            17636.5    20130.0         8948.2        3704.08
of which has been repaid                          4447.7     1140.1
Total now outstanding                            13188.8    18989.9
Amount Sold                                        133.8
of which has been repaid                           133.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA                  13455.15   18415.56
Total undisbursed texcluding *)                   3923.1     3901.9
1/  IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their US dollar equivalents, as established at
the time of Credit negotiations and as subsequently presented to the Board.
2/ Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived as the undiabursed balance expresed in SDR equivalents (in
turn derived as the difference between the original principal expressed in SDRs based on the exchange rate as established at
the time of Credit negotiations) and the cumulative disbursements converted to SDR equivalents at the exchange rates
prevailing at the respective dates of disbursements less cancellations expressed in SDR equivalents converted to US dollar
equivalents at SDR/US dollar exchange rate in effect on March 31. 1994.
For combined loan/credit operations, data are combined.
Not yet effective.
Source: Statement of :,ans and Credits (LOALA) of March 31, 1994.



- 51 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of-4
S. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN INDIA
(As of March 31, 1994i
Amount (tUS$ million)
Fiscal Year            Company                                                 Loan     Equity      Total
1959           Republic Forge Company Ltd.                                     1.50        --       1.50
1959-92        Xirloskar oil Engines Ltd.                                      0.85        --       0.85
1960           Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                                          1.36        --       1.36
1961           Y.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                                               0.21        --       0.21
1963-66        Precision Bearings India Ltd.                                   0.65      0.38       1.03
1964           Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.                                    0.81      0.40       1.21
1964           Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                                      0.96      0.36       1.32
1964-75-79/90  Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.                                  11.81      2.84      14.65
1967           Indian Explosives Ltd.                                          8.60      2.86      11.46
1967           Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                                         1.05      0.10       1.1S
1969-70        ZuAri Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                                      15.15      3.76      18.91
1977-87        Escorts Limited                                                15.55        --      15.55
1978-87/91/93  Housing Development Finance Corp.                             106.29      4.05    110.34
1980/82/87/89  Deepak Fertilizer and Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.           7.50      4.23      11.73
1981-82        Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.                                     1.50      0.24       1.74
1981-82        Nagnrjuna Steels Limited                                        2.88      0.24       3.12
1981-86-89     Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.                              131.04     24.49    155.53
1981-90/93     Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd.                                       29.71      9.30      39.01
1982           Ashok Leyland Limited                                          28.00        --     28.00
1982           Coromandel Fertilizers Limited                                 15.88        --      15.88
1982           The Bombay Dyeing and Manufacturing Co. Ltd.                   18.80        --      18.80
1982-87/91-93  ITW Signode                                                     2.99      1.01       4.00
1982-87        The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.                                    14.57        --      14.57
1983           Bharat Forge Company Ltd.                                      15.90        --      15.90
1984-86        The Gwalior Rayon Silk Manufacturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.        15.95        --      15.95
1985           Bajaj Auto Ltd.                                                23.93        --     23.93
1985           ?4odi Cement                                                   13.05        --      13.05
1985-86/90-91  India Lease Development Ltd.                                    8.50      0.78       9.28
1985/91        Bihar Sponge                                                   15.24      0.68      15.92
1986           Bajaj Tempo Limited                                            30.54        --      30.54
1986/93        India Equipment Leasing Ltd.                                    5.50      0.44       5.94
1986           Larsen and Toubro Ltd.                                         21.78        --     21.78
1982-87-93/94  The Great Eastern Shipping Company Ltd.                        68.00     13.89      81.89
1987           Export-Import Bank of India                                    15.45        --     15.45
1987           Gujarat Pusion Glass Ltd.                                       7.52      1.70       9.22
1987           Gujarat Narmada Valley Fertilizer                              38.07        --      38.07
1987           Hero Honda Motors Ltd.                                          7.74        --       7.74
1987           Hindustan Motors Ltd.                                          39.14        --      39.14
1987           The Gujarat Rural Housing Finance Corp.                           --      0.19       0.19
1987           Wimco Limited                                                   4.70        --      4.70
1987-89/90     Titan Watches Limited                                          22.02      1.15     23.17
1988           Invel Transmissions Ltd.                                          --      1.07       1.07
1989           Ahmedabad Electricity Company, Ltd.                            20.83        --     20.83
1989           WTI Advanced Technology                                           --      0.20       0.20
1939-90/92     Keltron Telephone Instruments, Ltd.                               --      0.56       0.56
1989-92        Gujarat State Fertilizer                                       40.46        --     40.46
1990           JSB India Securities Firms                                        --      0.37       0.37
1990           UCAL Fuel Systems Ltd.                                            --      0.63       0.63
1990-91        Tata Electric                                                 111.88     18.75    130.63
1991           ATIC Industries Export Finance                                  0.28        --      0.28
1991           Bombay Electric                                                68.00        --     68.00
1991-93        CESC Ltd.                                                      83.06        --     83.06
1991           Export Finance - AFDC                                           0.35        --       0.35
1991           Herdilla Cxides and Electronics Ltd.                              --      0.29       0.29
1991           Indust. Credit & Investment Corp. of India                        --     26.60     26.60
1991/93        Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services                    15.00      4.92      19.92
1991           TDICI Development Finance Companies                               --      2.05      2.05
1991/93        TRIVENI                                                           --      1.30      1.30
1991           Varun Transport, Storage & Communications                      17.04      3.06     20.10
1992-93        Arvind Mills                                                   22.13     19.16     41.29



- 52 -                                         Annex 5
Page 4 of 4
Amount (USS million)
Fiscal Year            Company                                                 Loan     Equity      Total
1992           Block KG-OS-IV                                                    --      8.20       8.20
'992          IDNUS VCF                                                          --      1.01       1.01
1992           Kotak Mahindra                                                  0.66        --       0.66
1992           Nippor Denro                                                   40.00      5.77     45.77
1992           SKF Bearings                                                   11.50        --      11.50
1993           creditcapital VF                                                  --      0.51       O.S1
1993           NICCO-UCO                                                       3.00      0.2s       3.2S
1993           20th CENTURY                                                   16.00        --      16.00
1993           Indo Tech FUnd                                                  0.00      0.64       0.64
1993           CRDCAP Asset Mgt                                                0.00      0.32       0.32
1994           Gujarat Ambuja                                                 35.14      8.23     43.37
1994           Indo Rama Spinning & Weaving                                   35.00      9.84     44.84
1994           Centurion Growth                                                  --      2.39       2.39
1994           TCAMC                                                             --      0.16       0.16
TOTCAL GROSS COMMITMENTS                                    1289.97    194.75   1484.72
Less: Cancellation, Terminations, Exchange
Adjustments, Repayments, Writeoffs and Sales                       704.23      74.92    779.15
Now Held by IFC                                                 585.74    119.83    705.57
Undisbursed                                                     104.21      12.47    116.68
........  ........I..ttmn  ........ ICnetmnsaofMrh3.  .
Source: IpC Statement of IFC InAvestments as of March 31, 1994.



