Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2611 IN
                         Project Agreement
               (Cataract Blindness Control Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                      STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
                      STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH
                       STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
                          STATE OF ORISSA
                        STATE OF RAJASTHAN
                        STATE OF TAMIL NADU
                      STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
                        Dated May 19, 1994
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2611 IN
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 19, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and THE STATES of ANDHRA
PRADESH, MADHYA PRADESH, MAHARASHTRA, ORISSA, RAJASTHAN, TAMIL NADU
AND UTTAR PRADESH (ACTING BY THEIR RESPECTIVE GOVERNORS) (referred
to collectively hereinafter as Project States).
      WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (the Borrower) and
the Association (the Development Credit Agreement), the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eighty-five million three hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 85,300,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that the Project States agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Project States, in consideration of the
Association's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with
Page  2
the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in
this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble thereto, and in the General Conditions (as so defined in
the Development Credit Agreement) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) The Project States declare their commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
their respective parts of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and medical practices and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Project States shall carry out their respective parts of the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. Each of the Project States shall carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and
9.08 of the General Conditions applicable to the Development Credit
Agreement (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
that part of the Project carried out by each of them respectively.
      Section 2.04. (a) Each of the Project States shall, at the
request of the Association, exchange views with the Association with
regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
      (b)   Each of the Project States shall promptly inform the
Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by each of the
Project States of its respective obligations under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Project States shall maintain records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices their operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
activities related to their respective parts of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Project States responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   Each Project State shall:
Page  3
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Associa-
                  tion;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than nine months after
                  the end of each such year, certified copies of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof, as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
      Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Project States thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
            (i)   the date on which the Development Credit
                  Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
                  terms; or
           (ii)   the date twenty (20) years after the date of this
                  Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify the
Project States of this event.
      Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions applicable to the
Development Credit Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
Page  4
                  INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
      For Andhra Pradesh:
            Chief Secretary to the Government of Andhra Pradesh
            Hyderabad,
            India
      For Madhya Pradesh:
            Chief Secretary to the Government of Madhya Pradesh
            Bhopal,
            India
      For Maharashtra:
            Chief Secretary to the Government of Maharashtra
            Bombay,
            India
      For Orissa:
            Chief Secretary to the Government of Orissa
            Bhuvaneswar,
            India
      For Rajasthan:
            Chief Secretary to the Government of Rajasthan,
            Jaipur,
            India
      For Tamil Nadu:
            Chief Secretary to the Government of Tamil Nadu
            Madras,
            India
      For Uttar Pradesh:
            Chief Secretary to the Government of Uttar Pradesh
            Lucknow,
            India
      Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of each Project State may be taken or executed
by its Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as the
respective Chief Secretary shall designate in writing and each of
the Project States shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
      Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
Page  5
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia
                  STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
                  STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH
                  STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
                  STATE OF ORISSA
                  STATE OF RAJASTHAN
                  STATE OF TAMIL NADU
                  STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
                  By /s/ N. Valluri
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (the Bank) in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
      (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
      (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Association, with such modifications thereto
as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Association, the Borrower shall
use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Association.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
Page  6
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    (a) Contracts for civil works estimated to cost up to $10,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount for the Project
not exceeding $11,500,000 equivalent; (b) drugs and medical and
surgical supplies estimated to cost up to $5,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount for the Project not exceeding
$4,400,000 equivalent; (c) medical equipment estimated to cost up to
$5,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount for the
Project not exceeding $3,500,000 equivalent; and (d) intra-ocular
lens estimated to cost up to $5,000 equivalent per contract, up to
an aggregate amount for the Project not exceeding $1,800,000
equivalent, shall be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
2.    Except as provided in paragraph 1 of Part C of this Schedule,
contracts for civil works up to an aggregate value of $3,800,000
shall be carried out by the relevant Project State through force
account under procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Spectacles estimated to cost up to $1,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount for the Project not exceeding
$5,300,000 equivalent shall be procured under quotations solicited
from a list of at least three suppliers, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.    Publicity services estimated to cost up to an aggregate value
of $700,000 for the Project shall be procured by the Borrower or
Project States under direct contracts with the Borrower's Ministry
of Information and Broadcasting, or with the relevant department or
agency of the State Government, or from local commercial suppliers
of such services, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
5.    Publicity services estimated to cost up to an aggregate value
of $4,900,000 for the Project shall be procured by DBCSs under
direct contracts with local private sector providers of such
services in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
6.    Services for performance of cataract surgeries estimated to
cost up to an aggregate value of $32,200,000 shall by procured by
DBCSs through direct contracts with private medical practitioners
and non-governmental organizations.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
      With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part A hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
Page  7
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower and Project States in
implementing the Project, each of them shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower and the Project States shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Association, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Association, the Borrower and Project States shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts or to the employment of individuals, to single source
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Association or to amendments of
contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
Project Management
1.    Each Project State shall maintain a State Project management
unit with staffing and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association and shall appoint all designated staff of such  unit by
July 31, 1994.
DBCS
2.    (a)   The Borrower shall, prior to the implementation of the
Page  8
Project in any district, establish a DBCS for that district with
membership, powers and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Association to implement the Project in that District.
      (b)   Each Project State shall, prior to the implementation of
the Project in any district, enter into an agreement with the DBCS
for that district, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, providing inter alia for the DBCS to undertake
responsibility for implementing the Project in the said district.
3.    Each State shall (a) complete the establishment of all DBCSs
in that State by July 31, 1994; (b) appoint all district Program
Coordinators, with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, by July 31, 1994.
Non-Governmental Organizations
4.    Each Project State shall select non-governmental organizations
and private medical practitioners for providing services under the
Project in accordance with procedures and criteria satisfactory to
the Association.
Training
5.    Each Project State shall provide ECCE/IOL training under the
Project subject to terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association including obtaining the prior agreement of each such
trainee that he/she will serve the relevant Project State under the
Project for a continuous period of three years immediately following
such training.
6.    Each Project State shall ensure that ophthalmologists working
for the Government are adequately trained in ICCE prior to their
being trained in ECCE/IOL.
Allocation of Inputs
7.    Each Project State shall ensure, and cause DBCSs to ensure,
that inputs required for high quality service at each level of
service delivery are provided to service providers on a timely
basis.
Technical Standards
8.    Each Project State shall ensure that the Project is
implemented in accordance with technical and operational standards
and procedures acceptable to the Association with respect to
services delivered under the Project.
Cost Recovery
9.    Each Project State shall: (a) by December 31, 1994, establish
criteria and procedures for the recovery of IOL and other ophthalmic
related charges; and (b) by December 31, 1995 introduce models of
cost recovery schemes under the Project.
Tribal and Remote Areas
10.   Each Project State shall ensure that the Project is
implemented in tribal and remote areas in accordance with the
implementation plan agreed with the Association.
Monitoring and Review
11.   Each Project State shall carry out at least one beneficiary
assessment each year, using staff trained in rapid assessment
methods, adequate to measure patient satisfaction and effectiveness
of Project implementation.
12.   Without limiting the generality of any other provision of this
Agreement, each Project State shall, on the basis of procedures and
monitoring benchmarks satisfactory to the Association, review with
Page  9
the Association once every two years commencing Credit effec-
tiveness, progress in Project implementation including quality of
services provided under the Project, patient satisfaction, cost
recovery mechanisms and expenditure priorities in ophthalmology and
shall take into account the findings of such review during further
implementation of the Project.
Grievances
13.   Each Project State shall cause each DBCS in such State to
establish a body to which any patient receiving care under the
Project may lodge any grievance relating to the treatment provided
to that patient under the Project. Each such body shall have
adequate capacity to effectively assist such patients.
