Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/-tV  L32'-UaN/
Repor No. 7488-UNI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF N-GERIA
OYO STATE ;JRBAN PROJECT
APRIL 12, 1990
Infrastructure Operations Division
Western Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



4                                       A
CIURUDCY PQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       *       Naira
US$1.C0      -        37.50
N1.00      -        USS0.1333
WIGHTS AAD HASURZS
Metric Syt *m - SI Units
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         -      African Development Bank-
CBN         -      Central Bank of Nigeria
CMB         -      Continental Merchant Bank
CIP         -      Community Improvement Program
DLIA        -      Department of Local Government,
EPC         -      Environmental Protection Commission
FMBN        -      Federal Merchant Bank of Nigeria
FMFED       -      Federal Ministry of Finance and Economic
Development
FGN         -      Federal Government of Nigeria
FMWH        -      Federal Ministry of Works and Housing
GOJ         -      Government of Japan
ICON        -      ICON Merchant Bank
IDF         -      Infrastructure Development Fund
IMB         -      International Merchant Bank
IHG         -      Ibadan Municipal Government
IMPA        -      Ibadan Metropolitan Planning Authority
LG          -      Local Government
LGA(s)      -      Local Government Authority(ies)
LGC         -      Local Government Council
LPA         -      Local Planning Authority
MFEP        -      Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MLHS        -      Ministry of Lands, Housing and Surveys
MWT         -      Ministry of Works and Transport
NAL         -      NAL Merchant Bank
NICON       -      National lInsurance Corporation of Nige   a
NISER       -      Nigerian Institute for Social and !conomic
Research
NMB         -      Nigerian Merchant Bank
OYSG        -      Oyo State Government
PCU         -      Project Coordination Unit
PFI(s)             Participating Financial Intermediary(ies)
SOE         -      Statement of gxpenditure
TPS         -      Town Plan!ing Section
WCoB         -     Water Corporation of Oyo State
Notet  LG, LGA, and LGC are used interchangeably.
FISCAL YEAR
\ January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
OYO STATE URBAN PROJECT (IDF II)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMKARY  . . . . . . . ...   .       . . . . . . . . . J
I.    PROJECT BACKGROUND  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
A.    Macroeconomic Setting .. ..................   1
B.    Urbanization and Demographic Trends .      .. .   1
C.    Oyo State. . . .  . . . . . .   . .   . . . . . . . . . . .  2
D.    Institutional Framework  ... .       . . . . . . . ....   3
E.    Project Origin  . . . . ...... .. . . . . ..                 4
F.    Rationale for Bank Involvement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
G.    Bank Sector Strategy  ................  .  .   6
II.   THE PROJECT . . . . . .  .  . . . ..    . . . . . 7
A.    Project Objectives  . . . . ... . . . 7
B.    Project Description   . . . . . . . . . . .                  7
C.    Project Costs and Financing Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
III. PROJECT IMPLEENTATION.                                             11
A.    Institutional Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
B.  Procurement          . . ... . . . 17
C.    Disbursement               . . ..  . .  . . . 18
D.    Accounting and Auditing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
1II.  FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
A.    Merchant Bank Organization, Finances and
Performance . . . .   .....                    .....   20
B.    State and Local Government Finances . . . . . . . . . . . 23
C.    Project Benefits  .......... . . . . .  .  . ..             25
D.    Economic Analysis .     .     .    .    .            .... 26
E.  Poverty Impact.                      . .   ..... . 26
F.    Project Risks   .          . .   .   . . . . . . . . . . .  27
G.    Environmental Impact  .......... .......   27
This repozt is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in June/July 1988
by Mr. H. Unger (Mission Leader), Mrs. A. Artaza, Messrs. J. Bahal, H. Ueno
(AF4IN), C. Banes, J. Cracknell, B. diZitti, and P. Sandersorn (Consultants).
Mr. T. Pankaj (AF4IN) provided support for the economic analysis, and Mr. G.
Faillace (RMN) was responsible for the merchant banks appraisal. The report
was typed by Mrs. Annette Williams, Miss Earnestine Binns and Mrs. Maria
Victoria Montes.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V.         AGRIAMENTS AND ASSURANCES REACURD AND IECOIEEND&TION       28
A.   Agreements and Assurances   ......... . . . . . 28
B.   Conditions of Loan Effectiveness  . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
C.    Conditions of Disbur¶ements   . . . .. . . . . .  . . . . 29
D.    Recommendation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
ASlXS
1-1   Selected Local Government Towns
1-2   IDF Policy Framework, and Guidelines for Merchant Bank
Participation and Project Selection
2-1   Detailed Description of Storm Drainage and Solid Waste
Components
2-2   Detailed Description of Traffic and Transport Component
2-3   Detailed Description of Community Improvement Program
.-4  Detailed Description of Local Government Towns Component
2-5   Detailed Cost Tables
3-1   Procurement Arrangements
3-2   Disbursement Schedule
3-3   Implementation Arrangements
3-4   Implementation Schedule
3-5   Organizational Structure of EPC
4-1   Organization, Finance  and Performance of Participating
Financial Intermediaries
4-2   Credit Guidelines and Functions of Participating Financial
Intermediaries
4-3  State and Local Government Finances
4-4  Economic Analysis and Poverty Impact
5-1  Documents in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD No. 21145: Community Improvement Areas in Ibadan
and Oyo State Towns
IBRD No. 21146: Metropolitan Ibadan and Locations of Major
Project Components



FEDERAL REPUBLIC oF NIGniAT
OYO STATE URBAN PROJECT (ID  II)
LOAN AND PROJECT SIMIARY
Borrower:                Federal Government of Nigeria
beneficiaries:           Oyo State Government
Federal Ministry of Works and Housing
ParticipAting financial intermediaries
Local Governments in Oyo State
Auount:                  US$50.0 million equivalent
Term3t                   Twenty years, including a five-year grace period, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate
Qalending Teorms         The Federai Government of Nigeria (FGN) would onlend
US$31.7 million to Oyo State Government (OYSG) at the
Bank's interest rate. For the Local Government line
of credit FGN --ould onlend US$17.5 million to eligible
participating Nigerian financial intermediaries (PFIs)
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. The
PFIs would relend Bank loan proceeds to OYSG at
interest rates to be negotiated between OYSG and PFIs
for onlending by OYSG to Ibadan Municipal Government
(IMG) and selected local governments (LGs). Thze loans
from the PFIs would be for a period of seven to
fifteen years with a two to three year grace period.
OYSG as the main beneficiary of these portions of the
loan would bear the foreign exchange risk. US$0.8
million of the Bank loan proceeds would be provided to
the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing (FMWH) for
technical assistance and training.
Project Description:    The main objectives of the project are to promote the
efficient functioning of Ibadan and Oyo State's other
major towns through city-wide infrastructure
rehabilitation, and through strengthening the
institutions responsible for urban management and
local resource mobilization. The project would
con-sist of: (a) infrastructure rehabilitation in
Ibaaan: flood control program through channelization
and maintenance of major storm drains; improved solid
waste management; and integrated community improvement
programs in three pilot areas; (b) infrastructure
improvements in selected LG towns and other LG
centers; (c) revenue enhancement and institutional
strengthening: technical assistance, training and
equipment to Oyo State and local governments to help
plan and implement improved financial management



- ii -
systems and enhanced revenue generation, particularly
property taxation, and to strengthen their capacities
to plan, implement, matnage, operate and maintain urban
infrastructure and services; and (d) support to the
FMWH for coordinating and monitoring project
implementation. The project would continue the
application of the Infrastructure Development Fund
(IDF) mechanism for funding urban infrastructure
investments, and eligible PFIs would, in addition tc
onlending the loan funds for the LG line of credit,
finance 10 of the project costs and be responsible
for the preparation, appraisal and supervision of the
infrastructure improvement sub-projects in selected LG
towns of Oyo State.
Project Benefits and
Risks:                 Benefits under the project are expected froms
(a) more efficient allocation of limited financial
resources and mobilization of additional funds; (b)
more appropriate and better coordinated urban
development, planning and management systems and
practices; (c) improved urban infrastructure and
services enhancing prospects for industrial
investments and employment in Oyo State's major towns;
and (d) reduction of flood damage to lives and
property, increased property values, and improved
sanitation and environmental conditions, particularly
benefitting the urban poor. Continued involvement of
Nigerian financial intermediaries through the
operation of the IDF mechanism vould provide an
opportunity fer PFIs to consolidate and further
develop their experience and expertise in urban
infrastructure lending.
One of the main risks of the project is the potential
difficulty in obtaining the inter-agency coordination
which will be necessary for efficient project
implementation. This risk has been minimized through
the establishment of an interministerial committee,
and by the clear definition and delineation of
responsibilities as well as by training and technical
assistance for the key implementation -gencies.
Another risk is the possible political reluctance to
fully implement the proposed resource mobilization
measures in the face of public unwillingness. This
risk will be reduced by ensuring that improvements in
tax management, billing and collection will be
preceded by visible improvements to infrastructure and
service delivery so as to increase the public's
willingness to pay. There is a further risk of
political interference with PFIs. The risk of



- iii -
political interference in the credit decisions of PFIs
has been minimized by the selection of merchant banks
with strong management and technical capabililty.
Economic Rate
of Return:             Flood control, storm drainage and community
improvements in Ibadan - 222
Naps:                    IBRD Nos. 21145 and 21146



:~~~~I
_ iv -
Estimated Project qosts: a/          Local  b/      Foreign          Total
…---     -(USS millions)…-----------
Infrastructure Rehabilitation
(Ibadan)                             6.5           22.1            28.6
LG Towns and Sub-projects              3.2            13.9           17.1
Revenue Enhancement and
Institutional Strengthening          1.3             6.2            7.5
FHWH Support                           0.1             0.6            0.7
Total Base Cost                     11.1           42.9           54.0
Physical Contingencies                 1.4             5.4            6.8
Price Contingencies                    2.6             5.4            8.0
Total Project Costs                 15.1           53.7           68.8
Financing Plan:
Oyo State Government                   3.0             2.0            5.0
Local Governments                      1.5            1.0             2.5
Financial Intermediaries               7.6              -             7.6
Cofinancing (GOJ Grant)                  -             3.7            3.7
Bank                                   3.0            47.0           50.0
Total                               15.1           53.7           68.8
a/ Totals may not add because of rounding
b/ Include taxes and duties estimated at US$1.1 million equivalent
Estimated IBRD Disbursementes:
IBRD Fiscal Years                     1991   1992   1993   1994  1995   1996
--- USS Millions ------------
Annual                                  5.0   13.6   12.0    9.5    5.9    4.0
Cumulative                              5.0   18.6   30.6   40.1   46.0   50.0



FMDERAL RIPUBLIC OF NIGIRIA
OYO STATE URBAN PROJECT (IDF II)
I. PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. Macroeconomic Setting
1.01    Nigeria has responded to the sharp drop in its foreign exchange
earnings which coincided with mushrooming debt service requirements, by
embarking on a bold structural adjustment program aimed at correcting
macroeconomic distortions and curtailing public and private sector
expenditures. This has entailed exchange rate adjustments, price adjustments
(particularly of food and cash crops), trade liberalization measures and
sweeping cuts in Government spending, particularly capital investments. While
these measures have contributed to restoring fiscal discipline and
international confidence in Nigeria, they were achieved at considerable
financial and social cost, particularly affecting Lhe urban poor. The
diminished public sector investments in infrastructure and urban services have
also led to further deterioration of systems upon which much economic activity
depends. The rehabilitation and maintenance of urban infrastructure and
utility systems with high economic returns, as well as measures that mitigate
the social cost of adjustment, particularly among the poor, are now of the
utmost priority.
B. Urbanization and Demographic Trends
1.02    In 1988, Nigeria's urban population was estimated at over 30 million,
or more than 30? of the national population. The rapid urban growth rate of
about 71 p.a. during the 1970s has slowed somewhat as a result of the economic
downturn of the 19808 and changes in the urban-rural terms of trade. Despite
the recent dampening of the rate of growth, however, no foreseeable
circumstances will reverse the continuing increase in urban population.
1.03    Existing urban infrastructure and utility systems are characterized by
a large backlog of unmet needs and by financial and institutional constraints.
Investments made in urban areas in the past decade have not kept pace with
growth, and were often poorly selected and executed. Maintenance of all
assets was neglected, leading to their rapid deterioration and need for costly
reconstruction. The anticipated urban population growth (4 to 5? per annum)
will add to the unmet needs, further hampering the development of industrial,
commercial and other productive sectors of the economy located in the cities.
1.04    In spite of their problems, Nigerian cities account for a high
proportion of the national value added and are important production, service
and administrative centers. They also absorb a large proportion of new
entrants into the labor market, particularly in the informal sector, and
account for a considerable portion of the non-petroleum tax base. The
environment for private sector businesses, already impaired by infrastructural
deficiencies, will be further eroded unless steps are taken to adequately
maintain and rehabilitate existing infrastructure and provide for future
growth.



1                                    -2
C. Oyo State
1.05    Oyo State, with a 1988 populatioh of over 10 million, of which some
60Z live in urban areas, is the most urbanized stite in Nigeria, with the
exception of Lagos. The towns in Oyo State, many of which pre-date colonial
times, are primarily trading and service centers although a significant
proportion (between 25Z and 351) of their inhabitants are still direct:-,
engaged in agricultural activities. This is a result of the traditional
Yoruba tribal settlement patterns, which favored farming village
agglomerations over dispersed farmhouses, and these close urban/rural links
persist to this day. Indeed, compounds in the larger towns were allocated on
the basis of geographical origin, and a town's older core area generally still
reflects its residents' agricultural hinterland and holdings.
1.06    The towns of Oyo are linked in a well-established, hierarchical and
specialized urban system. At the apex is the State Capital Ibadan, which grew
from a military camp early in the nineteenth century. Spread mainly across
the southern and eastern portions of Oyo State is a second tier of major local
commercial and market centers with fairly substantial populations (300,000 to
600,000), some of which pre-date Ibadan (e.g. Ile-Ife, Ilesa), while others
grew as a result of their strategic location along modern communications and
transportation routes (e.g. Osogbo - rall, Ogbomoso - road). A degree of
specialization has developed among these cities, with Ile-Ife noted as a
center for higher education and trade, (in addition to its traditional claim
as the cradle of Yoruba civilization), Ogbomoso as a medical and relioLous
center, and Osogbo more recently as an industrial center (steel rolliig
mills).   However, the towns, with their older, densely-populated urban core
areas (which resemble overgrown villages, surrounded by haphazard newer
developments) lack any organizing structure, planning and basic services, and
are not geared to meet the modern demands of industry for infrastructure
streams, systems, communications and services. Indeed, they are characterized
by inadequate, unreltable and inefficient utility and service systems, that
greatly add to the r,ost of production and business generally. Roads are
rutted and full of potholes, drains non-existent, housing stock in poor
condition, water supplies either unreliable or non-existent, while public
finances are limited and local institutions weak. Detailed descriptions of
the conditions in Oyo State's major towns are presented in Annex 1-1.
1.07    Ibadan Metropolitan Area.  Ibadan, the second largest city in Nigeria,
with an estimated population of about 3 million, is the major commercial,
industrial, educational and administrative center in the highly urbanized,
densely-populated southwestern region of the country (see IBRD Map No. 21146).
The provision of basic services and infrastructure, particularly to the poor,
has lagged behind the city's rapid growth (about 5X per annum). Past neglect
of the local revenue base and of operations and maintenance of assets has led
to deteriorated infrastructure, costly and inefficient services and scarce
financial resources. Generally poor service delivery has, in turn, made it
difficult for government snd utility agencies to institute appropriate cost
recovery mechanisms. To aggravate the situation further, the absence of a
comprehensive planning and investment framework as well as weak development
control has encouraged unplanned, uncontrolled and extensive urban sprawl



which has made it difficult to improve access and services to the newly
developed areas. The past lack of any environmental planning or enforcement
of protection measures is causing increasing deterioration of the urban
environments encroachment and erosion of essential watersheds, flooding,
silting and pollution of surface streams, illegal waste disposal and
unsanitary refuse dumps.
1.08    Ibadan has traditionally been an important commercial, production and
distribution center. It was for many years the capital of the then Western
Region (1952 to 1976). However, relative to the size of its population, the
modern industrial sector is smaller than that of Kano, Port Harcourt or
Kaduna. Lack of infrastructure and urban services, which add significantly to
the cost of private sector business activities, has stifled industrial
investment. There is, therefore, an urgert need to establish an effective
planning and investment framework while simultaneously addressing past
deficiencies and mobilizing financial resources for preventive infrastructure
maintenance and rehabilitation.
D. Institutional Framework
1.09    Federal, state and local governments share responsibility for the
urban areas. The federal government, through Federal Ministry of Works and
Housing (FMWH), is responsible for setting and coordinating overall urban
development and shelter policy. Federal ministries, parastatals and
corporations are also responsible for major transportation links and
factlities (federal roads, railways, ports, airports, etc.) between and within
major towns. River Basin Development Authorities are responsible for the
control, planring and development of water resources on a regional basis.
1.10    Responsibility for the management of urban areas is shared between
state and local governments (LGs). Delineation of responsibility and
authority between the two levels of government in the past has not always
followed constitutional provisions or the demands of operational efficiency.
The responsibilities and tasks entrusted to LGs under the constitution had
often been taken over by the state, because of LGs' limited human and
financial resources and a weak political base. As a result, the state
government, either directly or through parastatals, is responsible for
physical and development planning, land allocation and taxation, land use
control, water supply and sanitation, road and drainage networks aud many
social services such as health and higher education. LGs, in practice,
provide and maintain markets, motor parks, minor roads, some solid waste
collection, primary education (shared with state and federal governments),
primary health care and some community facilities. The LG elections in
December 1987, the federal government review of LG functions, roles and
responsibilities, larger financial resources and reforms in the conditions of
services, are among a number of recent developments, paving the way for a
greater role by LG in managing municipal Affairs. Reaffirmlng this trend the
President on October 1, 1988 granted greater autonomy to LGs by passing the
LGs' share of the federal statutory allocations directly to LGs and by
abolishing all state ministries of LGs and replacing them with departments in
the Governors" offices.



-4-
E. Proiect Origin
1.11    Bonk involvement in the urban sector in Nigeria has evolved
considerably since it began in 1977 at the request of the federal government'.
Four projects have either been completed or are being implemented. The First
Urban Development Project (Loan 1767-UNI, completed June 30, 1986) focused on
shelter issues, and aimed at strengthening the management of the Federal
Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) while demonstrating low-cost methods of
shelter provision and cost recovery on a pilot basis in Bauchi State. The
Second Urban Development Project (Loan 2607-UNI, approved July 1985),
similarly: focused on site-specific infrastructure and shelter issues in Imo
State. Shese projects and the experience 8ained by the federal governaent,
have influenced recent changes in shelter policy and the adoption of the sites
and services concept as part of Nigeria's low-income housing policy.
1.12    The issues of city-wide infrastructure and urban fiinance began to be
addressed under the Lagos Solid Waste and Sto=m Drainage Project
(Loan 2620-UNI, approved September 1985) and during preparation of urban
development feasibility studies in Benue, Ondo and Gongola States, which were
later incorporated into the Infrastructure Development Fund (IDF) Project.
The.,need for coordinated and integrated city-wide improvements to
infrastructure and its maintenance was recognized both as a way to halt
deteriorating urban living conditions and as a prerequisite for improved
financial resource mobilization. The need for a sustainable mechanism'for
funding urban investments also became increasingly apparent and, following
sector work by the Bank and a broad discussion of the institutional and
financial options, the Federal Executive Council approved the Infrastructure
Development Fund concept in principle in June 1985. The decision to license
several of Nigeria's merchant banks to operate the Fund as well aseco-finance
eligible priority infrastructure investments, represented a major policy
breakthrough by facilitating greater private sector participation in the
financing of urban infrastructure. The IDF project (Loan 2925-UNI) -which was
approved by the Board in March 1988, employs participating merchant banks
(five have been licensed so far) to identify, prepare, appraise and supervise
urban infrastructure projects in the Nigerian states, in addition to providing
cofinancing funds (raised in the local capital markets) and financial advisory
services, The benefits of this approach are the experience merchant banks
gain in the urban infrastructure sector, the opportunity they have to
familiarize themselves with state and LG constraints and capabilities, and the
fiscal discipline and prudence they intioduce into public finance.  Operation
of the IDF mechanism is An accordance with the IDF Policy Framework and
Guidelines for Merchant Bank Participation and Project Selection (Annex 1-2).
1.13    The proposed Oyo State Urban Project (IDF II) evolved from an urban
priorities study by the Bank in 1984, when Ibadan was found to be in greatest
need, after Lagos, of extensive infrastructure improvements among Nigeria's
major cities. An integrated city-wide infrastructure improvement approach
with an esehasis on rehabilitation and maintenance was deemed the most cost
effective Investment strategy which would improve service delivery and thus



justify enhanced cost recovery and generate increased tax revenues, especially
at the local level.
1.14    The scope of the urban problems in Ibadan was of such magnitude as to
varrant a distinct project, using the IDF mechanism adapted as needed to
reflect recent developments and experience in Nigeria. In view of the size
and complexity of Ibadan's infrastructure investment needs and given the still
limited experience of merchant bank staff to appraise such a project, the Bank
played a leading role in guiding the preparation and appraisal of the project
as well as in the coordination of donor assistance. Following identification
and early preparation work by the Bank for a major water supply component to
address the most critical need, the state government and the African
Development Bank (ADB) in November 1987 agreed to finance a US$45 million
equivalent emergency water rehabilitation project, including design studies,
for future water system expansions in Ibadan. Implementation of this
emergency project is progressing well and substantial improvements to Ibadan's
water supply are expected to be realized in the near future.
1.15    Bank preparation work subsequently had concentrated on storm drainage
and solid waste management, and in November 1987 the state and federal
governments proposed to also include in the project some of Oyo's other major
urban centers chosen on the basis of development potential, needs, size, and
regional balance. It was, therefore, agreed to include in the project funds
for financing eligible priority infrastructure improvements, institutional
strengthening and revenue enhancement measures in major towns and local
government centers which met sub-project selection criteria according to the
IDF project selection guidelines. At the same time, it was recognized that
inadequate provision had been made in state and local government budgets for
preventive maintenance of existing infrastructure.
1.16    A major road rehabilitation (involving about 30 km of arterials) and
traffic management component in Ibadan had also been identified and was being
prepared for inclusion in the project. However, following project appraisal
FGN, OYSG and Bank decided that, since all the proposed road improvements
affected Federal roads, the financing of these works should be the
responsibility of FGN. It was further agreed that, the Highway Sector Loan
(Loan 2963-UNI), approved by the Board in June 1988, would be the most
suitable source of funding, and that the respective units within FMWH will
cooperate to assure good coordination of road rehabilitation works and other
urban infrastructure improvements in Ibadan.
F. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.17    The Bank has been approached by the Oyo State and the federal
governments for assistance in financing an urban rehabilitation and
development project in the second most urbanized state in Nigeria. The Bank
is uniquely equipped to respond to this request given its extensive experience
in similar projects in the sector, especially through the Infrastructure
Development Fund (ID?) Project (para 1.12). In view of the severity of the
State's investment needs in the major towns, and the lack of alternative
financing, the participation of the World Bank is appropriate. The Bank's



-6-
participation will encourage fiscal prudence and discipline by the state and
local governments and act as a catalyst for financial participation by other
institutions, particul&rly Nigerian banks.
1.18    The project's emphasis on rehabilitation and maintenance of
infrastructure assets fits into the country's short-term development strategy,
while improved service delivery will be of particular significance to the
urban poor. The project's other focus on longer-term institutional
development and revenue enhancement, particularly at the local government
level, will lay the foundation for stronger, more financially autonomous and
self-sustaining local governments in the future.
G. Bank Sector Strategy
1.19    The Bank's sectoral lending strategy focuses on the promotion of
fiscal self-sufficiency at the state level and a more efficient, equitable and
sustainable delivery of urban services. Improved financial performance will
enhance the states' ability to raise the necessary capital to finance future
urban infrastructure needs without undue recourse to public transfers. The
greater efficiency of urban areas achieved through a better urban planning and
management system will not only improve the living conditions of a sizeable
portion of the country's population, but is essential to strengthening the
country's productive base. In the current financial and economic context,
characterized by severe resource constraints, the Bank's lending strategy,
which has evolved from the lessons of past and ongoing projects, focuses on
support for a wholesale mechanism (ID?) for preparing and funding priority
investments with high returns, particularly on the rehabilitation and
maintenance of existing assets.
1.20    The IDF approach combines institution-building for project
preparation, along with incentives for states and municipal authorities to
strengthen financial performance. It relies on the merchant banks, which in
Nigeria represent a concentration of management, marketing, and financial
expertise, to prepare, appraise, finance, and supervise urban projects and
sub-projects. It is consistent with the Bank's overall financial sector
strategy in Nigeria. That strategy combines support for the macroeconomic
reforms that underpin efficient financial policies with specific support for
financial reform, focussed on banking supervision and regulation, systemic
solvency, and the instruments of monetary control. These issues are to be
addressed in the proposed Budgetary and Financial Policy Loan, later this
year.
1.21    A long-term sector financial and urban objective is to develop a
market for state and municipal bonds through which a significant portion of
the infrastructure programs of states and local authorities can be financed.
In order to attain this objective, the capital market must develop confidence
in state investment projects, and develop the capacity to appraise these
projects. The states, in turn, must establish their creditworthiness and
demonstrate the ability to prepare high priority infrastructure programs,
within their financial and managerial capacity, and in balance with other
state investment needs. The IDF approach will contribute to the achievement



of these objectives, by enhancing the ability of state and municipal
authorities--and domestic financial institutions--to prepare projects for
financing through local bond markets.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
2.01    The main objectives of the project are tot
(a) strengthen the financial, operational and management capacity of the
institutions responsible for urban management and services at the
state and LG levels;
(b)  improve strategic urban planning, investment programming,
budgeting and coordination;
(c) introduce appropriate cost recovery mechanisms and mobilize
financial resources at the state and LG levels; and
(d) remove major city-wide infrastructure and service constraints, thereby
promoting the efficient functioning of Ibadan and Oyo State's other
major urban areas as regional development and service centers, with
emphasis on maintenance and rehabilitation of existing assets, as well
as improved investment planning and management.
B. Project Description
2.02    The project was designed to respond to the urgent need to break the
vicious circle of financial and institutional constraints limiting the
allocations for maintenance and infrastructure investments, and leading to
inadequate urban services which, in turn, severely limit the scope for cost
recovery and sustainability. The project would therefore finance:
(a) priority infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance in Ibadan;
(b) a line of credit for priority investments in Oyo State's other major towns
and LG centers; and (c) measures to enhance revenues and strengthen
institutions involved in the urban sector. Detailed descriptions of the major
project components are presented in Annexes 2-1 to 2-4.
2.03    Ibadan Infrastructure Rehabilitation.  In Ibadan the project would
include the following components: (i) storm drainage and flood control,
involving channelization of about 14.5 km priority sections of major flood-
prone urban streams, replacement of undersized bridges and culverts, essential
drain maintenance equipment (excavators, loaders and trucks), and funds for
dredging and rehabilitating 50 km of additional drains; (ii) solid waste
management, providing 40 skip collection trucks, 300 Nos. 8 m3 skips, 6
transfer haulage trucks and 15 Nos. 60 m3 trailers, a 4000 ton/day refuse
transfer station with attached central offices and workshop, development of a
150 ha new sanitary landfill site including a 3.5 km long access road, and
heavy equipment for landfill operations; (iii) environmental rehabilitation



- 8 -
involving the reclamation of the existing 20 ha refuse dump site, and erosion
restoration and control works on about 50 ha of eroding slopes (Annex 2-1);
(iv) a spare parts credit facility for private minibus owners and assistance
to the Vehicle Inspection Office (VIO) (Annex 2-2), and (v) a community
improvement program (CIP) in three pilot areas covering some 140 ha and
benefitting about 66,000 people with improved roads, footpaths, draina, water
supply, waste disposal, power supply and street lighting, as well as telephone
and community facilities (Annex 2-3). The CIP would also include the
development of two resettlement areas comprising a total of 150 plots with
basic services for about 150 families displaced by the drain channelization
and the CIP. Locations and details of the project components are shown on
IBRD Maps No. 21145 and 21146.
2.04    Selected LG Towns and other LG centers.  The line of credit for the
towns of Ile-Ife, Ilesa, Ogbomoso, Osogbo, Oyo and Saki as well as other
eligible LG centers would financet (i) the preparation _f structure plans,
infrastructure development plans and investment programs; (ii) priority works
of city-wide infrastructure rehabilitation and integrated CIPs; and (iii)
institutional support measures to strengthen revenue generation and municipal
management particularly the planning and maintenance functions of LGs (Annex
2-4).
2.05    Revenue Enhancement and Institutional Strengthening.  The project
would provide training, technical assistanae and supporting equipment for all
institutions involved in planning, implementation and management of urban
infrastructure and services as follows: (t) Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
within the Oyo State Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MFEP) through
short- and long-term technical assistance, staff training, funds for public
education and information; (ii) Internal Revenue Department of MFEP through
training support, equipment and vehicles, and technical assistance; (iii)
Department of Local Government (DLG) through coordination and training for
tenement rating and valuation, and assistance for LG development; (iv) Ibadan
Municipal Government (IMG) by, firstly funding the tenement valuation exercise
including external key staff, specialist technical assistance, training,
equipment and vehicles necessary for introducing the enhanced tenement
taxation system, and secondly financing operational technical assistance and
training in administration, maintenance planning and financial management in
the context of the municipal partnership with the City of Gothenburg; (v)
Ministry of Lands Housing and Surveys (MLHS) by financing the production of
digitized 1:1000 maps of Ibadan (using aerial photography from ADB-financed
emergency water project) including the necessary equipment, training and
technical assistance and by financing the preparation of structure and
investment plans for Ibadan and other towns; (vi) Environmental Protection
Commission (EPC) through drainage maintenance assistance, operational
assistance to solid waste management (including promotion and rationalization
of private sector involvement in refuse collection), and technical assistance
training and studies to support the Environmental Management Unit; and (vii)
Ministry of Works and Transport (MWT) through technical assistance and
training for transport and traffic planning, and for maintenance operations.



-9-
2.06    FMWH Support.  Support would also be provided to FMWH to enable them
to perform their policy guidance and monitoring role. Provision would be made
for: (i) staff training in project selection, approval and supervision; (ii)
training and study funds for post-evaluation of urban infrastructure projects;
(iii) consultant services to undertake regular project performance audits;
(iv) study funds to prepare other state projects; and (v) vehicles and
equipment to support project activities.
C. Project Costs and Financing Plan
2.07    The total cost of the project is estimated at US$68.8 million
equivalent and the foreign exchange component is estimated at US$53.7 million
equivalent which is 78Z of project costs. Base costs were estimated in June
1988 and have been updated to January 1989 and converted into US dollars at
US$1.00 to M7.50. Physical contingencies have been calculated at 15Z of base
costs for works, and lor for equipment and services. Price contingencies for
the foreign exchange component have been estimated on the basis of
international inflation rates (import weighted MUV index for Nigeria)
projected at 7.7 percent in 1989, -1.2 percent in 1990, 1.4 percent in 1991,
1.7 percent in 1992, 3.3 percent in 1993 and 5.3 percent annually from 1994 to
1996. Price contingencies for the local cost component have been estimated
using local inflation rates assumed to be 25 percent for 1989 and 10 percent
annually for 1990 to 1996.
2.08     Financing Plan.  A Bank loan of US$50.0 million equivalent and
cofinancing of approximately US$3.7 million equivalent would finance US$50.7
million of the foreign exchange cost of the project and US$3.0 million
equivalent of local costs. The balance of US$3.0 million of foreign costs
would be financed by OYSG and the LGs. US$31.7 million would be used to
finance the Bank-appraised Ibadan project components and US$17.5 million
equivalent would be provided to finance sub-projects in selected LG towns to
be appraised by the participating financial intermediaries (PFIs) (the LG line
of credit); US$0.8 million would be provided as support to FMWH. The PFIs
selected by Oyo State Government (OYSG) would finance 10 percent of the
project costs and OYSG and participating LGs would contribute the balance
%approximaLely 1jZ  an counterpart funding.  OYSG will be responsible for the
Ibadan Infrastructure Rehabilitation components (except the CIP) and the
Revenue Enhancement and Institutional Strengthening; IMG and other
participating LGs would be responsible for the CIP and for improvements
financed out of the LG line of credit.
2.09    The cofinancing is being provided by the Government of Japan (GOJ)
which, under an agreement executed on July 31, 1989 between the Bank and GOJ
will provide Japanese Yen 494.5 million equivalent on a grant basis to finance
selected studies and technical assistance elements of the project. A Japanese
Grant Agreement between the Bank and Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN)
covers the application of the grant facility.



NIGERIA
OVO STATE tM    PIIOJECT (iDF 11)
Stmry Cost Tb* s/
(Uin Cost * of Jmar. 1969)
Percntg
local     Foreign     Total               Local  Foroip        1      of ar  Cost
A. I3fraetxturo Rehab Iitation (lbadn)                         (S$ 'ODD)                               (oire '000)
Stom Drel_sg A Flood Control
brais Chaol "Ietic                               3,214      9,46      12,060              24,10,  70,.9    906.09          231
DOrals shabi Iitatioa                              269       177       1,065               1,943    S,Jt      7.771         2X
Malatmuac Ee,iput                                   de     lA9         1.149                L17    9,0in      5,15          2%
Solid i_t Mamasmt
Civil Sarka                                       63        1.660     2,06                4,032    11,62     16,M           41
Eml_t                                             23D      4,925      6,15               1,723   me,"?    5,61            105
ELWIlrmetal Ibabllitation                           110         119       13                 1.498      *0    2,J4            1%
Pabilc Trimpot Asaistnoe                              U         455       605                 401    S,416    &.N10
Caimity hVrovnt, Pregrm
Mowel                                              GM       1.151      1.746              4,239    5,966    13.095          31
Ydofte "03B                                                 1,107       1.1I              4.70J      ,7631  15,40D          31
A_.                                                7in      1.424     2,16                6.6325    10,70   3.212           4%
SubtLotl                                            6,495    22,144      26,60               40.    36,017   214.,m$          635
. Prierlit  f     _ d iL  Smbprojects                   1,.36     13.95      17,125             28,71  104,61 n     3,01 1
C. Nesom EmaAt a Inst.S"rentus.
PrJect Cwdiamti.li                                    70       26         331                 622    2,005    2,U1            I1
Ml*. efiFImas & Ec. Plan1                             17       45U         63                 Sri    8,246    l,2?            ux
itpotmFt of LJal Gs,ermmt PUtA)                      6w        812        we                  61    2,I3m       2,641         is
Ib Din.icI,ia  Oswerwt (EM)                      466      1,35       I'M0                3,645    6,601    12,147         as
111.d Lda"Iq A SWV. *         U6)                   26       2,03       I'm                 2,1U    10.57      21.7U,         s
EavSsm.t.l Protection, Camisoles (BC)               1        1,064     1,5                 1,440      ,63    3,04            26
Misisty of UsbS s. Tromp. tIT)                       so                   40             D            2,5        .05          1s
Subtol                                              1,2f       6,2U1      1,40                0,0    40,   ",1I0               143
O.  F S*_rt                                              141        U1         1                 1'M       4.010   6,65            Ax
Total Projet Sass Cost                                11,016     42.9,      64,00D              U,06    65,002   405,061        ioOs
bphyical Contlopmciei                                 1,421     6,M0       0.72               10,10    40,1w    S0,D,6          13X
Price  toti. _   et                                   2,631      ,86M       16                @0,2W   161, 2.6 M,01            I5
lotal Project Coot                                    36,114      ",U4      65,73              143 ,51   631,611  e6Ju
s/ C_ / n     m -         d d    t  rounding.
a/ Cole._. / Rome _ y sot add dba to r.emding.



- 11 -
2.10    On-lending Termss  US$31.7 million of the Bank loan proceeds would be
onlent by the FGN to OYSG at the standard variable Bank rate, for 20 years
including 5 years, grace for the Bank-appraised components of the project;
PFIs would act as administrators of loan funds and charge a negotiated fee
therefor. For the sub-projects appraised by PPIs under the LG line of credit,
FGN would onlend US$17.5 million equivalent to PFIs which in turn would relend
Bank funds to the OYSG at a rate to be negotiated between OYSG and the PFIs
for a period of seven to fifteen years with two to three years' grace period.
The spread between the PFIs borrowing and onlending rates would reflect
operating costs and the credit risk to be borne by the PFIs for the sub-
projects appraised by them and would be comparable to the prevailing gross
spread, administrative expenses and interest income/interest expense ratios.
OYSG would bear the foreign exchange risk for all onlent Bank funds. PFIs
would lend their own Naira funds to OYSG at local capital market rates and
other terms to be agreed with OYSG. OYSG has already selected a PFI for the
first phase (the Ibadan components) of the project and has reached agreement
in principle on the PFI's role and the terms of their participation.
2.11    For the CIP and similar tertiary/minor infrastructure rehabilitation
and improvement sub-projects for which LGs are directly responsible, OYSG will
re-lend loan proceeds to IMG and other selected LG towns on the same terms and
conditions as the loan funds borrowed from the PFIs.
2.12    Retroactive Financing:  OYSG and FMWH are exploring suitable options
for the interim funding of priority activities. The following items would be
eligible for retroactive financing by the Bank: (i) preparation of detailed
design and tender documents for the main physical components; (ii) investment
studies and preliminary design for selected LG towns; (iii) first-stage
development work at the landfill site; and (iv) preparatory training
activities. Consultant selection and procurement would have to comply with
Bank guidelines and procedures and the total amount retroactively financed
would not exceed US$1.5 million equivalent. All these expenditures will be
incurred after September 1, 1989 within 12 months of the expected date for
signing. During negotiations agreement was reached on retroactive financing.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Institutional Arrangements
3.01    The Federal Ministry of Works and Housing (FMWH) would have the
primary responsibility for the project at the federal level, administer the
IDF Project Guidelines (see Annex 1-2), and hold semi-annual meetings with the
(Federal Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (FMFED) and Central Bank
of Nigeria (CEN) to review the general progress of the project. These three
agencies would also meet annually to review the annual performance audit and
the overall financial status of the project. To enable FMWH to perform its



- 12 -
functions, provision' would be made under the project for continued training of
PMWH staff in the evaluation of infrastructure projects and programs, and for
the procurpment of vehicles and equipment to support project activities.
3.02    The Federal Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (PMFlD) would
assist FMWH to review the performance of the merchant banks and to formulate
and implement changes to the IDF Policy Statement and IDF Project Guidelines
that may be necessary to expedite project -plementation. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained tha. FGN will adopt the IDF Policy
Statement and IDP Project Guidelines for this project, will review them from
time to time, and discuss proposed changos with the Bank. Agreement was
reached during negotiations that PMYED will assist HMWH to monitor the
performance of the PFIs.
3.03    The Central Dank of Nigeria (CBN) would open and operate an IDF
Control Account (see paras. 3.05 and 3.26) in which it would record all
transactions relating to Bank disbursements and merchant bank withdrawals from
the line of credit, as well as merchant banks' payments of principal, interest
and any other charges and fees connected with the line of credit. This
control account would enable CBN to provide FHWH, FMFED and the Bank with
timely date on the overall financial status of the project. CBN would also
undertake regular monitoring of the banking aspects of the project, advise
FPMWH on the financial performance of the merchant banks, and assist FMWH to
formulate and implement any changes to the IDF Policy Statement and the IDF
Project Guidelines deemed necessary. Agreement on these functions of CBN was
reached at negotiations.
3.04    The Financial Intermediaries' Role.  The financial intermediaries
would continue to play the role they have under the IDF Project. They would
be responsible for (i) supervising the implementation of the Ibadan project
components jointly with World Bank staff; (ii) under the LG line of credit,
assisting Oyo State in the preparation of the LG towns sub-projects and
subsequently carrying out their appraisal and supervision; and (iii) opening
and operating Special Accounts through which project funds for approved
expenditures would be disbursed. They would also be responsible for financing
101 of all project costs and perform functions and provide services under
terms and conditions as set out in the credit guidelines (Annex 4-2). The
PFIs would present the LG towns sub-projects to be financed together with the
agreed term and conditions to their Boards fo-, acceptance and approval.
Maximum sub-loan amount for any one LG town would be US$2.5 million
equivalent; sub-loans below US$1.0 million equivalent would be *free-limit
sub-loans which would not require the prior approval of the Bank. Subsidiary
Loan Agreements between FGN and PFIs, and Sub-loan Agreements between PPIs and
Oyo State Government would be required. Draft Subsidiary Loan Agreements and
Sub-loan Agreements have been prepared for the IDF Project; similar forms of
agreements would be used for this project.
3.05    The financial intermediaries, as noted above, would appraise the LG
towns sub-project on the basis of the IDF Guidelines previously agreed to by
the Bank and the FGN. They woulds assist Oyo State in project preparation by
providing financing; guide the preparation of terms of reference for studies



- 13 -
and the employment of consultants; process project disbursements; monitor
procurement and accounting; and report annually to CBN, PMWH and the Bank on
the physical and financial status of the project. They would also be
required: to submit their own audited accounts to the Bank on an annual
basis, together with any other documentation regarding the status of their
portfolios that the Bank may reasonably requestg to liaise with CBN by
providing sufficient documentation to enable CBN to operate the Control
Account; and to liaise with FMWH in conducting the annual performance audits
of the project (para. 3.01). Finally, the PFIs would bear the sub-loan
credit risk, so they will be responsible for debt collection from Oyo State
and sub-project loan repayment to FGN. Details of the P11. roles, functions
and responsibilities are presented in the Credit Guidelines (Annex 4-2).
Oro State Government's Role
3.06    The Oyo State Government (OYSG) would be responsible for:  project
coordination and implementation, including detailed designs, preparation of
contract documents and awarding and administering contracts; maintaining
project accounts; and commissioning independent project audits - all in
accordance with the IDF Project Guidelines. Oyo State would also liaise with
FMWH in conducting the annual performance audits of the project. Oyo State
would negotiate a sub-loan agreement with interested PFIs and submit the LG
towns sub-projects for PFI appraisal and financing. Together with the PFIs,
OYSG will supervise and monitor LG sub-project implementation by LGs under the
sub-project onlending agreements to be executed between OYSG and participating
LG8.
Local Governments' Role
3.07    The local governments in Ibadan and in each of the project towns,
representing the third tier of government, would play a key role at the local
level. They would closely work with their Town Planning Section (TPS) in
identifying community noeds, formulating CIPs and local development plans.
The LGs would propose sub-projects for financing under the LG line of credit
and apply for sub-project financing from OYSG under onlending agreements to be
executed with OYSG and administered by the PFIle. LGs would be responsible for
10 percent of sub-project costs and for the sub-project implementation. They
would play a central role in the maintenance of tertiary infrastructure and
provision of urban services for which they are constitutionally responsible,
such as refuse collection and disposal, markets, motor parks and community
facilities. They would benefit greatly from technical assistance and training
programs designed to enhance their revenue base as well as their
administrative and operational capabilities. Particular attention would be
given by the TPS to the evaluation of environmental implications of sub-
project proposals including resettlement functions for the LO towns and
training would be provided for the TPS in this area.



- 14 -
Proiect CoordinatioA
3.08    The main responsibility for overall coordination at the state level
would rest with the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within the MFEP. The PCU,
which has been established but not yet fully staffed, would be responsible
for: coordinating and monitoring the activities of all project implementing
agencies; convening inter-agency meetings; reporting to OYSG (through MFEP),
FMWH and the Bank; obtaining and managing budgetary allocations for project
preparation activities; assisting implementing agencies in selecting and
recruiting key staff; assisting in selection of consultants, procurement of
civil works and equipment, while ensuring compliance vith Bank guidelines and
OYSG regulations; and setting up and maintaining project accounts and
financial management systems. The OYSG Interministerial Committee which has
so far guided and overseen project preparation, would continue its highly
effective coordinating role as Project Monitoring and Implementation
Committee. To ensure continuing effective project coordination, the
appointment of a senior engineer and a senior accountant for the PCU would be
a condition of loan effectiveness.
Proiect Implementation
3.09    The project will be implemented by the agencies responsible for the
various sector components (see Annex 3-3). In addition to MFEP, the primary
responsibility for project implementation will be shared t- the EPC, MLHS, MWT
and LGs as set out below.
3.10    Environmental Protection Commission (EPC).  The EPC was recently
established by OYSG to replace the Sewage and Refuse Matters Department. EPC
comes directly under the Military Governor's office and would be responsible
for the execution of the storm drainage/flood control, the solid waste
management and environmental management components. With respect to storm
drainage and flood control, EPC would be responsible for: routine maintenance
of natural streams and secondary channels; design of channelization and
rehabilitation works; construction supervision; and initiating and
coordinating new projects. With respect to the solid waste management
component, EPC would be responsible for: policy development; licencing,
control, and supervision of private refuse collection contractors, and the
continued prnmotion and rationalization of private sector involvement in
refuse collection; refuse collection from towns' inner core areas and communal
collection points, public buildings and facilities not couered by private
contractors; planning; implementation, maintenance and operation of transfer
stations, sanitary landfill sites and zonal workshops. EPC would also be
responsible for: establishing and enforcing environmental standards statewide;
environmental monitoring and control; preparation (by consultants) of an
environmental assessment study; and priority environmental rehabilitation and
protection measures such as reclaiming refuse landfill sites and
rehabilitating severely eroded areas.
3.11    The EPC has only recently completed the definition of its
organizational structure (see Annex 4-3), manpower and financial needs in
relation to its extensive mandate. It is still short of suitably qualified



- 15 -
staff, rquipment and finance, and its operations would be strengthened through
technical assistance, staff development, nw recruitment, and equipment
support to be provided under the project. OYSG has prepared a draft edict
with respect to the EPC including the organizational structure and key
positions.
3.12    Ministry of Lands, Housing and Surveys (MLUS).  The MLHS would be
responsible for overall land management, planning and information systems
aspects of the project. The Ministry would be responsible for the
establishment and maintenance of the multi-purpose land-related information
system, while the Survey Department would be responsible for the digitized
mapping. The Town Planning Division would supervise and coordinate the work
of local town planning sections, particularly in their preparation of
structure plans and priority infrastructure investment programs. It would
also be responsible for: review of planning and development control
procedures and legislation; preparation and guidance in the implementation of
regional development policies (in conjunction with MFEP); review of land and
housing delivery systems and proposals for more effective town planning
schemes and involvement by the private sector; formulation and implementation
of an equitable compensation and resettlement policy; and ;rould assist EPC in
the formulation of environmental management policies.
3.13    Ministry of Works and Transport (MWT).  The MWT would be responsible
for the preparation of the state transport planning and the state highway
maintenance studies. MWT would also provide guidance and oversee (i) the
spare parts credit scheme for private transport operators and (ii) the
assistance to the Vehicle Inspection Office (Annex 2-2).
3.14    LG Town Planning Sections (TPS).  The Tfr3 in Ibadan and in the LG
towns would be responsible for both CIPs and improvements in planning,
coordination and programming of urban investments in their jurisdictions. As
such, they would be responsible for: preparation of structure plans and
integrated infrastructure development plans; preparation of rolling
infrastructure investment programs; liaison with all sectoral agencies
involved in urban development activities to ensure coordinated development in
accordance with the structure plans and infrastructure plans prenared; liaison
with the private sector to encourage more involvement in residential and
industrial development; preparation and implementation of CIPs (Annex 2-3),
including socio-economic surveys, engineering surveys, establishment of
Planning and Development Committees" and liaison with local community groups.
3.15    Ibadan Municipal Government (IMG) and other LGAs.  The IMG would play
a crucial role in the maintenance of minor access roads and drains constructed
as part of Ibadan's community improvement program. In view of severe manpower
constzaints and a weak financial resource base, IMG will be a primary focus of
the institutional strengthening and revenue enhancement measures of the
project. In addition to strengthening its operations and maintenance
capabilities through a twinning arrangement, IMG would also benefit from
extensive assistance through the prolect fort establisbment and maintenance
of a multi-purpose land-related information system, including an updated
property roll; and a value-based assessment of properties; setting and



- 16 -
effective collection of property taxes and licence fees (Annex 4-3, tart IV);
planning, budgeting and monitoring of mnmicipal maintenance work; development
and operation of markets, motor parks, car parks and collection of fees;
improved administrative procedures nd financial management. The technical
assistance and training in 1MG'. main operational areas (administration,
financial management, maintenance and planning) would be provided by
practitioners from the City of Gothenburg (Sweden) which has agreed to enter
into an agreement on a municipal partnership (twinning) with IMG.
3.16    Project implementation will extend over a period of six years until
June 30, 1996 with major civil works in lbadan completed within 4-5 years
(Amuex 3-4). Infrastructure improvements in the LG towns would lag about two
years. During negotiations, agreement was reached with OYSG that funds
provided for the LG towns would have to be committed to viable sub-projects by
the end of the third year after loan effectiveness, failing which the Bank
would cancel uncommitted funds.
3.17    Status of Project Preparation.  Following the initial slow progress of
preparation, momentum had picked up considerably since early 1988 and
preliminary design works and preparation of terms of reference for detailed
engineering design and tender documents have been complfbted for the major
components. OYSG has already invited consultants' proposals for the detailed
design of the storm drainage works. With respect to the implementing
agencies, the EPC has been established and key staff have participated fully
in the final stages of project preparation. Communities in Ibadan as well as
in the LG towns are being mobilized by the LG Councils and TPS staff and are
participating fully in the preparation of the upgrading proposals and designs.
The PCU, although not yet fully staffed, has been effective in coordinating
project preparation and appraisal, and the Project Coordinator (appointed in
April 1988) has already taken training in Bank procurement and disbursement
procedures. Suitable sites for the two resettlement areas, the sanitary
landfill and the solid waste office, workshop, transfer station have been
identified at appraisal, and OYSG has already alloc&:ad the necessary land for
these sites. Completion of the land acquisitions would be a condition of loan
effectiveness.



- 17 -
B. Procurement
3.18    Procurement arrangements which are detailed in Annex 3-1 are
uvmnarized as follows:
ftocurewmt Nsthods
------- ---  (US$ million) -----------
Internat.   Local
ICB    LCB   Shopping   Shoppina   Other   Total
Civil Works                  23.3   19.4                                  42 8
(18.5) (14.7)                               (33.2)
Equipment and Vehicles        8.2              1.4       0.7      0.5    10.7
(7.8)           (1.2)      (0.6)    (0.5)  (10.0)
Design and Supervision                                            4.0      4.0
(1.5)   (1.5)
Studies                                                           1.9      1.9
(1.0)   (1.0)
Technical Assistance                                              3.9      3.9
(1.5)   (1.5)
Training                                                          1.8      1.8
(1.0)   (1.0)
Happing and Valuation         1.7    0.7                                   2.3
(1.6)  (0.2)                                (1.8)
Land and Compensation                                             1.3      1.3
(0.0)   (0.0)
Total                        33.2   20.1      1.4         0.7    13.5    68.8
(27.8) (15.0)    (1.2)       (0.6)   (5.5)  (50.0)
Note:      Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IBRD.
3.19    Infrastructure improvements in seven or more towns with possibly
several contracts for each town would involve at least 25 civil works
contracts ranging from approximately US$100,000 to a maximum of US$5 million
equivalent. The large civil works contracts totalling about US$18.5 million
would be procured thrvugh ICB, and procurement of smaller civil works
contracts of less tttan US$1.0 million each would be through local competitive
bidding (LCB) u. to a maximum aggregate of about US$20 million equivalent. On
the basis of current experience in Nigeria these contracts are too small and
scattered to interest foreign contractors unless they are already established
in Nigeria. In any case, foreign contractors would not be precluded from
participation in LCB. There will be prequalification of contractors for all
civil works contracts exceeding US$1.0 million equivalent. Oyo State
procurement regulations have been reviewed during appraisal and generally
comply with Bank guidelines. Assurances by OYSG were obtained that no
selective tendering will be used and that contract awards would be made
without negotiations to the lowest evaluated, responsive bidder. In addition,



_ 18 -
OYSG will be required to sutit the first LCB bidding document for civil works
for prior review by the Bank, and standardized bidding documents will be
agreed upon. Prior Bank review will also be required for any contract
exceeding US$1.0 million equivalent, and the Bank would review smaller
contracts by sampling prior to award.
3.20    Vehicles and equipment would, whenever feasible, be grouped to obtain
packages of at least US$1.0 million equivalent to be of a size suitable for
ICB in conformity with Bank procurement guidelines. For materials and
equipment of less than US$300,000 equivalent per contract, local or
international shopping up to a total of US$3.0 million would be permitted. A
minimum of three quotations would be obtained from local suppliers, overseas
suppliers or their local agents for specialized equipment, such as computers,
where prompt servicing and repairs are considered to be essential. Staff of
PFIs would be associated with Bank staff in monitoring procurement for the
Ibadan components of the project. Following this familiarization period,
which would be supplemented by suitable training, PFI staff would be
responsible for procurement monitoring under the LG line of credit.
3.21    Consultant services for design and supervision, studies, technical
assistance and training would be procured in accordatce with Bank guidelines
for the use of consultants and in consultation with the PFIs. A substantial
portion of design and supervision services are of a nature and scope to allow
extensive use of Nigerian consultants and experts, and activities involving
foreign firms and specialists would be linked with specific training programs
for Nigerian staff. Training of local staff will also be fully integrated
with the technical assistance assignments to assure the maximum transfer of
expertise.
C. Disbursement
3.22    As in the case of the IDF Project, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that special accounts would be established for each PFI and that
these special accounts would be established in foreign currency and operated
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The PFIs would be entitled to
periodic withdrawals from their respective special accounts as well as from
the OYSG special account to finance eligible foreign exchange expenditures
under the project. It was agreed that as conditions of disbursement, (a) a
sub-loan would be made between OYSG and a PFI in accordance with agreed
procedures and terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank; and (b) the PFI
making the sub-loan agreement would have entered into a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with FGN. It was further agreed that the PFIs would undertake
periodic audits and provide reports as the Bank may reasonably request.
3.23    At the time of project effectiveness, and upon receipt of duly
authorized withdrawal applications, the Bank would make an initial deposit of
US$0.5 million into each PFI special account and US$1.5 million in respect of
Oyo State special account representing the equivalent of three months'
expenditures. Replenishment of special accounts by the Benk would require
submission to the Bank of full documentation or, in the case of smaller
contracts, certified statements of expenditure (SOEs) for all eligible project



- 19 -
expenditures (para. 3.22) by the relevant PFI. Bank replenishment of the
PlIs' Special Accounts will be geared to the rate of withdrawals and will be
reviewed periodically. A special account in foreign currency would also be
established for the FMWH with an initial deposit of US$.2 million.
Replenishment of this special account by the Bank would require the submission
to the Bank of full documentation or certified SOE's for smaller amounts for
all eligible expenditures by FMWH.
3.24    PFI disbursements from their respective special accounts would be on
the basis of architect's or engineer's certificates against approved contracts
or, where appropriate, under Bank Procurement Guidelines against certified
SOEs approved by the PCU on hehalf of OYSG. Full contract documentation would
be required for all eligible expenditures except for contracts of less than
US$50,000 equivalent. Where a PYI's existing disbursement documentation
requirements are more extensive than those outlined above, these requirements
way prevail. S0I, limits could be liberalized based on experience gained
during project implementation. Detailed contract and disbursement
documentation would be retained by the PFIs and made available for review by
periodic Bank supervision missions.
3.25    The project will be substantially completed by December 31, 1995 and
the loan fully disbursed by June 30, 1996. The estimated disbursement
schedule shown in Annex 3-2 approximates the Nigerian profile for all sectors.
Category allocations and percentages to be financed by the loan are as
follows:
Disbursements b, CateQories
Category                          Amount      Percentage Financed
US$ million
(1) Civil works                   32J%        1001 of foreign
experditures and
75X of local
expenditures
(2) Equipment & Vehicles           8.1        1001 of foreign and
752 of local
expenditures
(3) Consultants' services          4.6        1001
and training
(4) Unallocated                    5.3
Total                    50.0
D. Accounting and Auditing
3.26    The PFIs would be required to provide the Bank with audited project
accounts (including SOEs), as well as audited financial statements of the PFIs
themselves, including details on arrears and structure of portfolios. In
keeping with its responsibilities under the IDF Project, the FMWH would be



- 20 -
required to undertake an annual performance audit of the project. As in the
case of the IDF Project, CBN would operate a Control Account for the project
and report annually to FMPED, FMWH and the Bank on the PFIs' financial
performance and the overall financial status of the project. The PFIs'
audits, CBN's annual report and the project performance audit would be
submitted to the Bank annually within six months of the close of each fiscal
year.
IV. FINANCIAL AND ICONOKIC ANALYSIS
A. Merchant Bank Organization PFinances and Performance
4.01    The five PFIs (CMI, 1MB, NAL, NP and ICONT) already selected to
participate under the ITF project would be eligible, in principle, to
participate under the proposed project.  The first foutr Banks have continued
to demonstrate their financial strength and technical capacity. ICON has in
the past demonstrated these attributes, but recently CBN's stringent measures
to restrict credit expansion, including the dramatic withdrawal of Government
and parastatal deposits from the banking system (Annex 4.1, para. 6) have
revealed weaknesses in ICON's liquidity management and portfolio quality.
Therefore ICON can continue to participate only if a more detailed assessment
of ICON's recent financial sitatus, currently underway, confirms its continued
financial strength.   The other four Banks, however, have weathered well the
recent liquidity squeeze, which attests to the quality of their management and
policies. At the request of the PGN, additional banks are currently being
appraised by the Bank, on the basis of the eligibility criteria established
under the IDF. The five banks already selected (including ICON) account for
about 70Z of the assets held by merchant banks in Nigeria, and three of these
banks are associated with prominent international banks whose equity
participation is between 30-40Z. Despite the fact that the Nigerian
Government retains majority shareholding, the banks are relatively free of
Government intervention, except for the appointment of managing directors.
They operate on the basis of comercial criteria, and have a reputation of
being among the most profitable and efficiently run organizations in Nigeria.
The banks are generally well organized and competently staffed, with more than
5OX of their middle and upper level management holding master's degrees or
equivalent qualifications in finance, accounting or marketing. On average,
managers have had at least ten years of banking experience, and have been in
their present posts for five years or more. Their operating procedures are
generally sound and well documented.
4.02    These merchant banks are well versed in project lending, syndication
and supervision, and possess considerable experience, particularly in the
manufacturing, real estate and construction sectors in the various states of
the federation. Their experience with direct state lending for urban
projects, however, has been limited, and their staff are not well trained in
municipal engineering matters or in the intricacies of state finances, revenue
mobilization and institutional development. These deficiencies are being
overcome through staff recruitment, training programs and utilization of



- 21 -
outside consultants under the ongoing IDF project. In addition, all the PFIs
have created specialized project units staffed with qualified engineers and
financial analysts and can recruit additional staff or consultants as
required. The experience being gained now by the PPIs in the implementation
of the IDF project--from initial discussions with states through to project
identification and appraisal--and the fact that they participated in nearly
all discussion during project appraisal, will greatly facilitate the PFIs'
involvement in the proposed project. FGN and the Bank are satisfied with the
initiative and approach the PFIs have displayed so far in implementing the IDF
Project; the PFIs have matched their enthusiasm for this novel mechanism with
the necessary technical competence, financial expertise and political skills.
The proposed Health System Fund (HSF) Project, recently negotiated follows the
same approach. Under that project the PFIs have again demonstrated their
competence and have assisted the States in all phases of the preparation
process. Sub-project states under both the IDF and the proposed HSF projects
are benefitting greatly from the frequent advice. timely assistance and solid
support they receive from their PFIs on all financial and management aspects
of their sub-projects. Relationships of mutual trust are evolving not only
between states and PFIs, but also between PFIs and FMWH (or the Federal
Ministry of Health in the case of the HSF project). For both facilities, the
corresponding federal ministries rely in part on She PFIs to generate interest
and follow up on initial enquiries by the states.
PFIs' Finances and Impact of Proiect
4.03    Total assets of the five PFIs have grown at an average annual rate of
45Z over the past eight years. The fastest growth took place in the 1981-82
period, during which the banks grew at an unprecedented annual rate of 782.
During the 1986-1988 period, the PFIs grew at an annual rate of 45X; however
in 1988, when restraints on credit growth were applied by the Government
(Annex 4-1, para. 6), growth dropped to 211. The financial structure of the
PFIs is characterized by relatively short-term deposits, with little medium-
and long-term debt. In general, cash, receivables, short-term loans and
advances, and other short-term assets accounted for well over 60? of total
assets during 1984-1988. While limiting earnings, these assets have generally
helped the banks through periods of tight liquidity such as the recent sudden
withdrawal of Government deposits from the system. This liquidity is
particularly important given that an average of 40S of their portfolio is in
loans and advances with maturities of over three years, and given that over
three-fourths of their total resources are represented by short term
liabilities. (See Annex 4-1 for more details on the PFIs, Including the most
recently audited financial statements and portfolio information).
4.04    Historically, the PFIs have maintained debt/equity ratios of roughly
22sl, which is on the high side for a medium to long term lending institution.
Given the risk profile of their asset structure and the significant term
transformation the PFIs continue to undertake, a higher level of
capitalization is clearly desirable. With the exception of ICON, the PFIs
have already taken steps to reduce their debt/equity ratios. The Bank with
support from CBN would closely *nonitor the quality of the portfolio of the
PFIs during implementation of the project. During negotiations, it was agreed



- 22 -
that CBN would review with the Bank annuallys (i) the financial performance
of the PFIs with particular reference to their capital adequacy and their
liquidity position; and (ii) where necessary, measures to improve the
financial performance of the PFF1, provided that such measures are consistent
with the overall credit and monetary policy objectives of the CBN. Continued
PFI eligibility to participate in the IDF scheme would be determined on the
basis of such performance reviews. As indicated in para. 4.01 above, such
reviev of ICON's recent performance is already underway to establish its
continued eligibility.
4.05    Detailed information on arrearages and the affected portfolio is
regularly being supplied to the Bank on a confidential basis. Based on this
data, it is generally concluded that some deterioration of the PF13' portfolio
has taken place over the past few years. The recent measures taken by the
Governnent portaining to the withdrawal of deposits has exacerbated the
situation and brought to light some weaknesses in portfolio quality.  The
provisioning levels of the PFIs range from 7Z to 27? of the gross portfolios.
About 12? of the gross portfolio (up from 9Z in 1986) is over 90 days in
arrears. However, there are differencea between PFIs, with ICON showing a
weaker portfolio quality.
4.06    The profitability of the PFFI  has been high in the past in spite of
the interest rate ceilings which did not distinguish adequately between real
and nominal profits of banks. The PFIs managed to maintain a positive return
on equity through commissions and other charges on loans and through the
substantial interest free advances placed with banks by importers pending
release of foreign exchange by CBN. Following the liberalization of interest
rates in 1987, the PFIs have improved their real rate of return on equity.
Nominal after tax rates of return on average equity during the 1981-89 period
ranged from 182 to 66X. During 1988 after taz returns on equity ranged from
36? to 981 (but this latter figure reflected extraordinary profits due to
revaluation of foreign assets). Thus, during 1988, the PFIs on the whole had
positive rates of return in real terms. While no audited figures are
available for 1989, some deterioration in their profitability seems to hive
occurred. As a percent of average total assets, the gross spread (interest
income less interest expense) shows narrow margins (1.8? to 3.9Z in the last
year), but when other income is included, the margins increase significantly
(4.9? to 7.0?). In general, administrative costs expressed as a percent of
average total assets have been kept in the range of 1? to 2? which is very
reasonable. During the periodic detailed reviews of the PFIs' financial
situation, an assessment would need to be made to determine the degree to
which profitability has been overstated due to underprovision for problem
loans and other potential losses.
4.07    Projections of financial statements carried out for the five PFIs
incorporating the ongoing IDP loan, and the proposed Oyo Urban Project
(assuming an even distribution of the proposed line of credit to the priority
towns amongst the PF1s), show that at no time would borrowing from IBRD exceed
about 16? of outstanding liabilities.



- 23 _
B. State and Local Government Finances
Oyo State
4.08    Oyo State, like most States in Nigeria, receives over 80Z of its
revenue from its share of the Federation account. The fluctuations in oil
prices have tended to create serious financial problems for the State ad a
result of decreased income from the Federation account. At the direction of
the Federal Government, the State has set up a Stabilization Account,* since
January 1988, and contributes 10? of its total revenue in order to offset the
impact of fluctuations in statutory allocations.
4.09    Debt service was not a major problem before 1984, as internal loans
were largely lmI.ted to long-term Federal Development Loan Stock at relatively
low interest rates. External loans which were ma*Wy raised between 1980 and
1983 carried .% 3-5 year moratori@u but involved high Interest imtes and shawt
repayment periods. The decline in the exchange rste of the Ni-ra against
major international currencies has considerably increased the Ng ir  cost of
external debt servicSlg.  The State's ability to meet its debt service
obligation was further adversely affected by severe budgetary constraints.
The total debt outstanding at the end of 1988 was about N3 billion (32.5
billion external and N0.5 billion internal). A rescheduling of the debt
service, which is being contemplated by FGN, will give the State time to take
appropriate measures to strengthen its financial position over the next few
years. The internal measures that the State needs to take includet (i)
improvement in the Internal Revenue mobilization and financial management;
(ii) constant review and monitoring of user charges to ensure cost recovery;
(iii) control on growth of recurrent and capital expenditure with much greater
emphasis on rehabilitation and maintenance of infrastructure and priority
projects with cost recovery potential; and (iv) rescheduling of debt to local
banks and contractors over five years..
4.10    The state government in 1989 has implemented a revised organizational
structure of the Internal Revenue Department in line with the guidelines from
the Federal Government which has already led to more effective use of existing
resources (see chart on page 2 of Annex 4-3). The project will provide
management support to the Internal Revenue Department in the form of transport
equipment and staff training. In addition, the project will also provide
audio-visual equipment and transport to the Civil Service Training School in
order for it to run courses designed to enhance skills of all Internal Revenue
staff. During the implementation period of the project, the Internal Revenue
Department would draw up a staff training development plan covering all staff.
The training courses would be developed jointly by the Civil Service Training
School and the Internal Revenue Department.
4.11    Assurances were obtained from OYSG to improve overall ikternal revenue
collection starting in 1990 by an average of five percent annually in real
terms over a five year period. OYSG would propose specific measures for
reaching this overall target, but would retain flexibility to modify their
proposals in accordance with changes in tax rates and allowances as determined
from time to time by PGN. No rare increases or new taxes are proposed, but



- 24 -
the Increases in internally generated revenue would be achieved through: (i)
more assessments; (ii) improved billing and collection procedures; (iii)
reduction of tax arrears; (iv) creation of an updated master tax file, and tv)
frequent review of user charges to reach economic levels. During the first
six months of 1989, OYSG intensified billing and collection efforts which
resulted in a 21 percent increase in internally generated revenues over target
levels. The projections in Annex 4-3 present a specific example of how the
overall target could be reached by OYSG. Training, equipment and technical
assistance would be provided under the project to support the implementation
of the revenue enhancement measures.
4,12    There is a need to shift emphasis from new investment to
rehabilitation of axisting infrastructure so that OYSG optimizes the returns
on its a3aets. OYSG has set up an Infrastrtcture Hainterance and
Rehabilitation Fund to ensure that maintenance takes priority over other
expcidituris except those for sal*ries and wages. As a cousequence of this
action, there would be less funding available from. OSGIc own resources for
new investment, and OYSG has provided the Bank with a draft of its 1990-92
three year rolling development plan.
4.13    It is expected that with the above measures, the State government
would realize a steadily growing current account surplus from 1988 to 1992
followed by a deficit for two years in 1993 and 1994, as a result of the full
impact of the debt servicing burden at the end of the five-year assumed grace
period on existing foreign debt. It would then again continue to realize
steadily increasing surpluses. The project would have an overall positive
impact on OYSG's finances because it will enable the State to carry out proper
maintenance of all its infrastructure. In the absence of the project, the
State's dependence on Federal allocations would increase thus putting it in a
more uncertain position during times of falling Federal revenues. Details of
State finances are presented in Annex 4-3.
Local Governments
4.14    The LG Councils in Oyo State arn  facing a difficult financial
situation due to a narrow tax base, poor financial management, frequent
late or non-receipt of their share of the Federation account and State
revenues, and a heavy burden placed upon them to meet a significant part of
the cost of primary education. In some cases, over 0S of the revenues were
used to meet their share of the primary school teachers' salaries.
4.15    The LGs, hitherto in Nigeria, have played a very peripheral role in
the development process, as most of the traditional LG functions have been
performed by the State Governments. However, there is a renewed awareness of
the importance of the local democratic institutions' key role in the local
development process. Federal Government is now placing much greater emphasis
on rural development and the role of LGs. In order to reduce the financial
burden of primary education on LGs, the Federal Government in 1988 has decided
to finance 65Z of the cost of primary school teachers' salaries and, in
addition, to channel their share of the Federation account directly to the LGs
rather than through the State Governments. This arrangement will lead to



- 25 -
significant lmproveuent in the financial position of municipal governments in
Oyo State over the medium term.
4.16    LGs also need to enlarge their taz base and improve their financial
management and revenue collection in particular. The latter would be
addressed by improving staff skills for which provision would be made in the
project. Increased revenue generation at the local LG level would best be
achieved through the introduction of an anhanced"tenement rating system, and
IMG conmmitment was given to its establishment in Ibadan. The Bank has been
furnished with existing legislation on the tenement rating system.
4.17    Draft terms of reference for a State Rating Valuation Coordinator and
for a Chief Rating Valuation Officer for IMG and presentation by IMG of
outline proposals for achieving improved rate collection perforance
comencing in 1990 have been prepared by OWSG and IM  and were presented to
the Bank. The public advertisements for the State Rating Valuation
Coordinator and the IMG Chilef Rating Valuation Officer have been Issued. Once
these two key posts have been filled, implementation of the enhanced tenemeat
rating system by IMG would proceed with the recruitment of staff, acquisition
of equipment and the engagement of private sector valuers to carry out the
property valuations. Details of the present and the proposed saystems are
described in Annex 4-3.
C. Proiect Benefits
4.18    The project would have a significant physical/environmental, economic
and social impact on Ibadan, the other major towns of Oyo State and their
surrounding areas. Implementation of storm drainage and flood control
measures will help prevent flood damage--a frequent occurrence--which affects
infrastructure and property and results in loss of lives and economic
activity. Furthermore, the servic roads to support the drainage system will
provide greater ease of maintenance and improved access to neighborhood
commtuities.
4.19    Implementation of the solid waste management component will improve
sanitation and thus reduce health risks, reclaim lands from illegal dump sites
and contribute to flood mitigation by keeping drainage channels clear. The
spare parts credit scheme to private transport operators will assist to keep
mass transit vehicles running in better and safer conditions thereby providing
affordable urban transport to middle and lower income groups.
4.20    The CIP will directly enhance the living environment of three
communities with a total population of about 66,000. The provision of basic
infrastructure services and sanitation measures will be reflected in increased
property and rental values. The LG towns rehabilitation will be evaluated by
the selected PFIs and thus the specific benefits will be determined then,
though they are expected to be similar to those discussed above, because the
general nature and scope of the LG towns sub-projects will be similar to the
Ibadan rehabilitation components, in particular the CIP.



- 26 -
D. Economic Analysis
4.21    A summary of the ecnnomic analysis of the appraised project components
is presented in Annex 4-4. The P11. would be required to undertake the
economic analy,ls of the LG towns sub-components following the criteria and
methodological approaches established under the IDF project.
4.22    Quantifiable benefits were measured for each major component except
for solid waste management where the least cost solution was applied. The
total cost of the storm drainage and flood control, and the CIP components is
562 of the Ibadan rehabilitation component. The weighted average ERR is
estimated at 222. Cost streams include calculations for civil works,
equipment and machines, demolition and resettlement, engineering design and
mnmagement, physical contingencies and provision for routine and periodic
maintenance.  Economle costs and benefits were expoce&sed in international
border prices, in Ma dollars at January 1989 prices and at the current
exchange rate   An overview of the economic evaluation is given below.
4.23    Storm Drainage and P-lod Control.  A study of past floods and
resulting damage identified three levels of flood damage: (a) annual damage of
about Ml million; (b) damage due to a 5-year flood of about N2.6 million, and
(c) damage due to a 25 year flood of about 1540 million in 1989 prices.
Benefit streams were calculated by taking the probabilities of the occurrence
of this damage. The result shows an ERR of 24Z which is conservative as the
physical damage is believed to be underestimated.  If the benefits decrease by
2O2 the ERR becomes 152, and if the costs increase by 20? the ERR becomes 17?.
4.24    Community Improvement Program.  Benefits were quantified on the basis
of the more reliable property value approach rather than rental value. Based
on a sample survey in the target and two comparable communities, property
values would increase by 76? with the project resulting in an ERR of 24t. If
the benefits decrease by 20?, the ERR is reduced to 15?, and if costs increase
by 20? the EU is reduced to 17?.
E. Poverty Impact
4.25    The urban poverty threshold was estimated at 1696 per capita per
annum, as compared with N497 based on the Bank's definition of the threshold.
The former is used in the project analysis (Annex 4-4). In Ibadan city the
percentage of the poor is estimated at about 571; the share of the poor in the
three communities to benefit from the CIP is estimated at 66?.
4.26    the project components have been targeted to improve areas least
served by basic infrastructure and public services. These areas tend to
coincide with a high concentration of lower incomv groups. The detailed
poverty impact analysis shows that about 64? of the capital expenditures for
the Ibadan infrastructure will benefit the poor. A similar percentage is
expected for the LG towns component.



- 27 ,
F. Proiect Risks       -
4.27    The main risks of this project relate to the institutional and
financial weaknesses of the State and Local Governments. The first problem,
evidenced most strongly by lack of coordination and weak management, has begun
to be-addressed already in the course of project preparation. The
Interministerial Committee, established by OYvG for guiding the preparation
and implementation of the project, has been evolving into an increasingly
effective inter-agency coordinating body. Under the strong leadership and
direction of the MFEP, responsibilities of State bodies and LG organizations
have been clearly defined. Technical assistance and training under the
project have been specifically designed to remedy the deficiencies in urban
infrastructure management and development during project implementation. In
addition, a municipal partnership arrangement ('twinning agreement') has been
concloded between IMG and the City of Gothenburg, Sweden, to provide
operationually more relevant support and training in municipal and financial
management, planning and adainistration for Ibadan.
4.28    The risk of political reluctance to implement the resource
mobilization measures in the face of public unwillingness or inability to pay
will be minimized in two ways. No new taxes or levies will be introduced, but
revenue increases will be achieved through Improved management, billing and
collection of ezisting sources of revenues realistic targets which take
ability to pay into account have been agreed on. Secondly, the introduction
of intensified collection efforts will be timed in such a manner as to be
preceded by tangible improvements in infrastructure and service delivery so as
to enhance the population's willingness to pay. In addition, public
information and education programs will precede and accompany the resource
mobilization measures. There is the further risk of political interference
with PFIs. The risk of political interference in the credit decisions of PFIs
has been minimized by the selection of merchant banks with strong management
and technical capability.
G. Environmental Impact
4.29    The proposed project would lead to significant improvements and
tangible benefits to-Ibadan's environment. The unsightly and hazardous refuse
disposal sites would be rehabilitated, refuse collection improved and a new
sanitary landfill site developed. An Environmental Management Department
would be established witnin the EPC to develop statewide environmental policy
and programs; establish and monitor standards; and undertake environmental
improvement programs. The project would begin to address the severe erosion
problems in Ibadan's hilly zones through-a pilot erosion control project,
which would also reduce silting of stream beds and the incidence of flash-
flooding. Througn an educational program the public would be sensitized to
environmental issues and ways in which irreversible degradation can be avoided
at the individual and cosunuity level.
4.30    About 150 residential structures in total would be affected by the
drain widening and by the CIP in Agugu and Yemetu. Land has been identified
adjacent to both these communities for the development of resettlement areas



- 28 -
where plots with basic infrastructure services would be provided for the
affected families.  The residents displaced by the drain construction would be
accommodated at the Yemetu site which is close to their present community.
Substantial efforts have been made during preparation and appraisal to
mini-mize disruption and the number of families affected, and these efforts
would be continued and intensified during detailed design and implementation.
OYSG has formulated a draft compensation and resettlement policy which would
avoid undue hardships without encouraging further illegal construction in
other streams or road reserves; OYSG would also prepare a resettlement plan
dealing with credit and material assistance, re-establishment of employment,
community facilities and other implementation details. OYSG has already
allocated land suitable for a resettlement zone. Completion of land
acquisition for the resettlement areas would be a condition of loan
effectiveness.
V.   AGRE4ETS AND ASS        ES EACHED AND RCO,MMUTION
A. Agreements and Assurances
5.01    Agreements and assurances were reached on the following at
negotiations:
(a) expenditures incurred by OYSG after September 1, 1989, for design,
studies, landfill site development and preparatory training activities
would be eligible for retroactive financing not to exceed US$1.5
million equivalent (para. 2.12);
(b)  FGN would, through FMWH, FMFED, CBN and the PFIs implement the project
in accordance with the IDF Policy Statement and the IDF Project
Guidelines and following the procedures previously established and
agreed to by FGN for the IDF Project (paras. 3.02, 3.03, and 4.04,
Annex 1-2);
(c) funds provided for the LG line of credit would be committed by thu end
of the third year from loan effectiveness failing which the Bank would
cancel the uncommitted funds (para. 3.16);
(d) procurement, disbursement, monitoring, accounting, auditing and
reporting requirements (paras. 3.19, 3.22, 3.26);
(e) OYSG would undertake to achieve, starting in 1990, agreed overall
internal revenue targets (para. 4.11);
(f)  IMG's commitment to the introduction of an enhanced tenement rating
system in Ibadan (para. 4.16).
B. Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
5.02    Conditions of loan effectiveness are:



- 29 -
(a) appointment by OYSG of a senior engineer and a senior accountant to
the PCU (para. 3.08); and
(b) completion of land acquisition for resettlement areas, sanitary
landfill site and site for central offices, workshop, refuse transfer
station (paras. 3.17 and 4.30).
C. Conditions of Disbursements
5.03    Conditions of loan disbursement in reopect of the line of credit
component are:
(a) execution of a sub-loan between OYSG and a PFI in accordance with
agreed procedures and terme and conditions (par&. 3.22); and
(b) the PFI mAking the sub-loan would have entered into a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with the Borrower (para. 3.22).
D. Recommendation
5.04    On the basis of the above agreements and conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for an IBRD loan of US$50.0 million at the
prevailing terms and conditions.
AF4IN
April 12, 1990



- 30 -
ANNEX 1-1
Page 1 of 7
nRaL UPULIC oF NIGz4u
OYO STAT MI, PROJECT (IDF II)
SELECTED LOCAL GOVuMNY TOWIS
A.  ILI-IFN
(1) -Al*-Ife, with a population of about 400,000 and considered the cradle
of YorubA civilization, is now an Important produce marketing,
trading *nd educational center set amidst a rich agricultural area.
A traditional trading center for kola nuts vhich are exported to the
north, Xle-fe also has established saw mills and a clay brick
manufacturing plant.
(2) The town suffers from severe water shortages although supply from the
Osogbo-Ede system, as well as the town's distribution network, are
currently being expanded. In the meantime, wells aro extensively
used. Sanitation is generally by pit latrine or bush, vith never
properties required to install septic tanks. Roads are in extremely
poor condition: most are unpaved or in urgent need of reconstruction.
Formal drainage is either non-existent or poorly constructed and 111-
maintained. Electricity supply, since the recent commissioning of a
major transformer station, is now reasonably stable. As in some
other towns in Oyo Stato, house-to-house garbage collection is by
private contractors who charge ElO per month. However, there is no
landfill site and, despite the designation of environmental
sanitation day once a month, much garbage still accumw.'ates in drains
and watercourses.
(3) The Local Planning Authority (LPA) had no development plan to guide
development, which has been haphazard and uncontrolled. A master
plan exercise, begun in 1980, is to be resuscitated, although the
validity and usefulness of a rigid master plan is questionable in the
absence of an adequate development framework, data base, controls and
enforcement. The LPA has two layout schemes under development but
whereas most plots have been sold, very few have been consolidated.
Changes in building permlt regulations in 1988. requiring
applications to include a survey plan with boundary coordinates, has
led to a significant drop in building applications.
(4) The LO has been constructing some local access roads but has funding
problems. Propertieos are being numbered but the new tenement rate
has yet to yield significant revenues and is meeting public
resistane.



- 31 -
ANNEX 1-1
Page 2 of 7
I.   ILSA
(5) Lying in the eastern cocoa-rich area of the state, Ilesa is a town of
over 500,000 in the smallest Local Governmnt area of Oyo. The urban
economy is characterized by the large informal sector, engaged
primarily in trading, and in the marketing of food crops, although it
is also the cite of a brewery and a number of saw mills.
(6) Only 10? of the town is estimated to have actess to piped water
supply, the cemainder using shallow wells, There are plans to .zpand
the treatment plant, which is fed from a source some 20 kms from the
town. Sanitation is generally by pit latrine or bush, with newer
properties required to install foptic tmnk*. The town has a
reasonable network of roads, many of which are surfaced. The major
stream (the Ora) floods frequently and needs dsailting and
channelization. Electricity supply is erratic and subject to
frequent outages.
(7) Ilesa has no development plan as a tool for assessing development
applications, although a master plan was begun in 1980. Building
applications have been increasing although development appears
predominantly land-driven with availability of infrastructure and
services havLng influence on development decisions. The urban sprawl
has spilled over the LG boundary and the LPA deals also vith planning
applications from outside the LPA area. One planning scheme was
started by the LPA but this is now largely inactive, possibly because
of the poor infrastructure and location.
(8) The LG has been providing some access roads. Generally, however,
services provided are limited and maintenance inadequate. The major
LG revenues are from markets, taxi and motor parks. The numbering of
properties has recently been carried out in preparation for the
introduction of a tenement rate, which is strongly resisted by the
public because of the paucity of services. Currently a 17.50 per
annum capitation or 'head tax" is levied.
C.   OGSAME8
(9) Ogbomoso, the second largest town in Oyo Stute, with a population
estimated at over 600,000 lies on the main route from Lagos and
Ibadan to the north. It is an important food marketing center.
particularly yin, cassava and maize, as well as the home of a major
Baptist Seminary and other faclities (teaching, clinic, etc.). The
town, in addition to active informal trading, has attracted a number
of industries such as a brewery, a flour mill, paper processing, soap
and candle manufacturing, saw mills and poultry farms in the
vicinity.



- 32 -
ANNEX 1-1
Page 3 of 7
(10)  Lack of an adequate water supply is a major problem and, although
there is a large water reservoir, the treatment plant and pumping
equipment has not been expanded since its installation in 1962.
Water rationing is common and shallow wells are used extensively.
There are plans for expanding the system. Sanitation is generxlly
by pit latrine or the bush, while newer houses use septic tanks. A
major federal road to the North passes through the town and street
lighting is currently being installed along this road. Many local
roads are tarred, but large residential areas are poorly served.
Maintenance of roads and drains is virtually non-existent. Major
stteams flood regularly although few propertjes are directly
affucte4.  Road drainage i&' very poor and the steep slopes
extensively eroded. The LG is constructing some culverts, but
without an apparent drainage plan or appropriate levels.
Electricity supply is unstable, with transformer capactty sufficient
to met only 50 of demand. Rationing is therefore common with
rotating outages affecting all areas of town. There has been a
noticeable improvement in solid waste management, but garbage is
still apparent in low-lying areas and in drainage channels.
(11) The LAP had no development plan to guide growth and prevent
haphazard development. A master plan exercise, begun in 1978, was
limited to data-gathering and is of no use to planners in guiding
investments and development. Relatively recent (1972) base maps at
a scale of llOOO are available and the LPA was trying to update
these on an area by area basis. The LPA, using such maps, had begun
a comprehensive infrastructure improvement plan in the Alapata area.
The town is growing at a rate of about 20,000 people per annum but
has no effective housing delivery system particularly in the older
core area. The LPA had ambitious plans to extend their planning
schemes, which have been largely ineffectual in dealing with demand.
At the same time it appears powerless to stop illegal construction,
including encroachment of drainage basins. Generally services
provided by LG are limited and the maintenance of roads and drains
has been totally neglected.
D.   050Gb
(12) A traditional trading center on the main railway line to the north,
Oeogbo, with a population of between 500,000 and 600,000, lies a
rich agricultural and densely populated area. The local economy,
which had sagged with the waning of railway traffic and unfavorable
agricultural pricing policies of the past, has received a boost from
the sitting of a steel rolling mill and machine tools factory,
augmenting the older industries based on pottery, traditional cloth-
making, and flour and seed mills.
(13) Inadequate and poor infrastructure systems in Osogbo severely
constrain its efficient functioning and future development
prospects. Water supply in areas served with piped distribution



- 33 -
ANNEX 1- 1
Page 4 of 7
(mostly the western area of town) is intermittent while the many
leaks in the distribution system waste much of the limited supply
available. Many residents use shallow wells which are prone to
contamination and exhaustion. The water supply and treatment works
on the River Erinle at Ede are currently being extended to augment
supply to Ouogbo as well as Ede and Ile-Ife. Sanitation is
generally by pit latrine or bush, vith newer properties required to
install septic tanks in the urban area. Roads are mainly graveled
and severely eroded due to high rainfall intensities and steep
slopes, while most roads lack proper drainage. The Okooko and
Ogbagbaa streams which flow through the town are not maintained and
flood annually. The garbage deposited in the streams exacerbates
the problem.   Electricity supply to the town is reasonably stable,
thanks to the national control center in Osogbo which takes power
from the national grid for regional distribution.
(14) The Local Planning Authority has no plan to guide development and
this, as well as inadequate control and enforcement legislation,
encourages haphazard development and urban sprawl which bear no
relation to proximity of infrastructure and services. The town is
probably growing at about 20,000 people per annum but there is no
effective land servicing and housing progrm. The LPA began the
development of a 89 ha planning scheme about 5 kms from town in 1981
but only a few of the 541 plots have been developed. Poor location
relative to the town, lack of utilities and services, and leasehold
purchase arrangement, as well as lack of funds for the purchase of
costly building materials appear to be primary causes for the lack
of development on site. A large, part-privately-owned industrial
estate was planned in the town, but the site has attracted only one
factory and is said to be under litigation.
(15) The LG is currently constructing some access roads and has recently
numbered properties in preparation for the levying of a *tenement
tax.  This is meeting strong comunity resistance and outright
opposition in view of the poor state of services and apparent lack
of maintenance programs for infrastructure and services.
I.   010
(16) Oyo, one of the oldest Yoruba towns, lies 50 kms north of Ibadan on
the main road to Ilorin and Kaduna. The town, with a population of
about 300,000, is renowned for its traditional weaving, carving and
leather work but is also an important center for informl sector
trading, education and agricultural processLng (maize, cassava,
yazis, groundnut). It serves as a major service center for the
highly successful Oyo North Agrlcultural Developmnt Projoct and has
also attracted significant industries such as pharmaceutical and
alumina. With the planned improvement of the Ibadan-Ilorin highway
to expressway standard, the town has considerable development
prospects.



- 34 -
ANE  1-1
Page S of 7
(17) The water supply system in Oyo town is considered to be adequate
(unlike most other towns in the state) although an expansion scheme
is planned. Metering is fairly comon wLth most users paying an
average of P10 per month. Sanitation, as is in other towns, is
mainly by pit latrine or bush, with septic tanks mandatory for newer
buildings. Local roads are in poor condition, unpaved and subject
to severe erosion, particularly on steeper slopes lacking lined
drains. Erosion has in many instances undermined buildings and
gouged steep roadways. glectricity supply Is reasonably stable
Private contractors collect about SOS of the garbage for a monthly
fee of PlO per household, while the LO collects the remainder,
mostly from the poorer traditional core areas.
(18) There is no effective development plan although the first volua of
a master plan was prepared in 1978. In order to have same data base
to work with, the LPA in 1982 prepared a land use map (showing
existing conditions) with the assistance of students.
(19) The LPA had embarked on a number of planning schemes and has 2
ambitious plans to acquire vast tracts of land (more than 16 km ) as
a way of controlling development and guLding growth.   The LG is
undertaking some capital works (local roads construction) but
maintenance of roads and drains is neglected.
V. RlSAK
(20) Saki, at the heart of an agriculturally rich though remote northern
region of Oyo State, is the smallest of the major towns selected for
improvement and the headquarters of the Dak funded Oyo North
Agricultural Development Project (ONADEP-Ln.1838-UNI). However,
vith improved commuications and transport its role as a major
regional agricultural marketing and processing center for commercial
crops will be further enhanced and its current population oflabout
200.000 iw likely to jow rapidly. The proposed expansion of ONADEP
into a State-wide Agricultural Development Project will ensure
Saki's contintied importance. Saki, LA and zonal headquarters is
also an important adainistrative center.
(21' The settlement pattern in Saki is not as dens* as in the larger,
older and more traditional Yoruba towns to the south. However,
localized traffic bottlenecks occur around the main market and
surrounding co ercial area, while residential cowr'unLties lack
basic amenities such as all-weather roads, drainage, water supply,
solid waste collection and streetlighting. The road network ia
poorly defines and lacks hierarchy. There is no road or drain
mintenance by the LO. Due to lack of any organised refuse
collection and disposal services, there is Indiscriminate dumping of
waste throughout.



- 35
ANNME 1-1
Page 6 of 7
(22) The LPA had commenced a town planning scheme which is only partially
(30) developed and lacks essential infrastructure. Neither master
plan nor up-to-dat. base maps ezist and there is practically no
development control.
F,   OUTLIM STEAUGY 11 KAJOl TOWNS
(23) All the urban areas in Oyo State display a surprisingly similar
array of problems and issues that vary only in emphasis at the local
level. It is possible therefore to outline, in broad terms, as
strategy and a set of measures that would generally respond to the
needs of the towns. These ares
(i)  Assistance to the Town Planning Section (TPS) of LGs to
improve the data base, planning and development control
procedures and to prepare a simple 'Integrated
Infrastructure Development Plan. Such a plan, augmented by
a strategic 'Structure Plan' would lay the guidelines for
physical development, and would assist the LG in guiding
development and in preparing a rolling public investment
program.
(ii)   Rehabilitation of existing waterworks or early completion of
water supply expansionk scheme and rehabilitation and
eztension of the town's distribution network.
(iiI)   With Liproved water supply, a program to improve sanitation
practices, e.g.. provision of Improved pit latrines, to
improve health and, in time, productivity should follow.
(iv)   Desilting and channelization of the main streams through the
towns to alleviate seasonal flooding.
(v)   Paving and drainage of partially a:terial crosstown road
links.
(vi)   A prioritixed program to provide paved access roads and
lined drains in the town in concert with water supply
distribution. For efficient execution, the program should
be implemented within an integrated&framework or plan for
infrastructure, as proposed in (i).
(vil)   Assistance to the LG to establish routine programs for
maintenance of roads and drains, establishment of improved
solid waste management practices, and markets, lorry and
taxi park development.
(viii)   Assistance to the LG to improve its revenue base and
financial managemnt generally, as well as budgeting,
control and administrative procedures.



- 36 -
ANNEX 1 - 1
Page 7 of 7
(iz)   Apart from *city-wida* infrastructure links, the remainder
of the secondary and tertiary lnfrastructure, e.g., local
toads, drains, water distribution, sanitation, etc. could be
carried out via comprchensive 'area upgrading or *comunity
lmprovement  programs  such as those priposed for Mokola,
Yemetu and Agugu ln Ibadan. These would bo planned by the
LO and with active ccinity participation and TPS staff
suitably (e.g., particularly in umicipal angineering)
providing the essential technical inputs.
(z)   Vina0cing of infractructure rehabilitation, particularly at
the comunity level, and their subsequent maintenance would
be through indirect cost recovery. A valuatLon-based
tenement rating system would capture the propcrty value
increases due to improved infrastructure and would provide
the LGs with the revenue necessary for maintenance end
further rehabilitation under the project. If $creased
rates are linked to tangible lmprovents, the i would be a
willingness to pay.
AP4IN
October, 1989



3 7
J                                                                 Page I of 4
FURL UUL1C OF WIIGKZ
OTO       tJII  PIOJCT
ID? POLICY I IU AND GhLDs FOR
1CIA3?  MM PARTIC A?TOI
AND PIOJUCT SMIDC?IO9
1.        This sumarises the policy framework for the Infrastructure
Developmnt Fund (ID?), the guidelines for mrchant bank participation and
the criteria for subprojoct selection to be finaced through the Fund. The
Statement of Policy which sets out the objectives of the ID? mechaniss was
adopted by the Federal Executive Council on February 5. 1987. The
mechanism addresses the neod for viable financial intenrdiaries to help
fund urban infrastructure invostments. The Policy Statement was included
in the IDF Project (La. 2925-UNI approved in March 1988) along vith Project
Guidelines which set out the criteria for the soloction and appraisal of
state infrastructure subprojects.   These documents are also included Ln
the project file.
A.  POLICY P3ANM R&
2.        The objectives of the IDF are:
(a)  to assist state and local governmant  in Nigeria to plan.
finance, construct, maintain and manage urban infrastructure and
services;
(b) to submit states to tho financia discipline of the capital
market, improve thelr project preparation, implementation and
financial management capabilities, and help place urban
infrastructure and services on a more self-financing basis
throuhb improved cost recovery and other means of local revenue
enhanc smnt;
(c) to ezpand the role of the private sector by utilizing merchant
banks as financial intermediaries foa urban infrastructure
development projects; and
(d) to explore the potential for tapping Ntgeria's capital market to
finance state and local government infrastructure investments.
3.        The IDF Project Guidelines set out the criteria for the
selection and appraisal of state infrastructure subprojects which focus
primarily on rehabilitation and maintenance of existing assets in the
following sub-sectors:



38 -AHNEX I3.2
Page 2 of 4
-    water supply
-    roads and drainagl
-    solid vaste manageaent
-    sanitation
-    street lighting
markets and motor parki
-    high priority infrastructure investments related to industrial,
coasrcial and residential projects that are in accordance with
the IDF Project Guidelines.
4.        in addition to physical works, the $D? will finances  (i)
studies simed at subproject identification and preparation. institutional
de.elop.ent, resourco mobilization, and improved financLal and technical
manageoent; and technical assistance for subproject impleomntation and
monitoring. Such studile my be financed on both a loan or grant basis,
when grant funds are available.
S.    1CZAM Nt     PARTICIPATION
S.        In keeping with the Federal Government's policy to increose the
participation of the private sector in the development of the economy, five
merchant banks which expressed an interest have been selected initially to
serve as financial intermediaries for the ID?t
Continental Merchant Bank Limited
-    ICON Limited (Merchmat Bankers)
sInternational Merchant Bank Limited (D1M)
-    Nigeria Merchant Bank Limited (MG)
-    NAL Merchant Bank Limited (NUL)
6.        The banks were included on the basis of size of assets (the
minimum asset base requirement range from 300 to M400 million), technical,
capabilities, interest in the ID? progrm and readiness to make the changes
in their operations and procedure. necessary to help states improvo their
project execution, resource mobilization and financial management
capabilities lncluding, where necessary, supplementing theLr staff, either
by direct hire or by use of consultants, Ln order to achLove the objectives
of the %DI.
7.        The urchant banks are expected to prepare and appraise
infrastructure subproject in a manner similar to that employed by the
World Bank. They vill appraise not only the financial and technical
feasibility of proposed subprojects but also the economic and institutional
capabilities of the borrowing state and local government institutions.
Subprojects wvil be revied on a selective basis, as stated in the Project
Guidelines, by the World Bank in consultation with the Federal Ministry of
Works and Housing prior to final approval by the merchant banks.



ANNEX 1-2
Page 3 of 4
C.  PILOJEC  SLCTOM
8.        tliaiblo Infrastructure Subsectors.  The following types of
infrastructure are illustrative of the subproject components that would be
financed under the ID?t
(a) voter supply, including the repair and rehabilitation of
existing plant, equipment, distribution networks and network
extensions;
(b) roads and drainage, in particular the rehabilitation of existing
road and drainage networks and the construction of now linkages
to aid traffic flow and relieve congestion;
(c) solid waste management, including the provision or
rehabilitation of vehicles, equipment and containers for
collection and disposal;
cd) sanitation, including the provision or improvement of low cost
public sanitary conveniences;
(s) street lighting;
(f) markets, in particular the rehabilitation of ezisting facilities
and the improvemnt of services; and
(g) other high priority infrastructure Lnvestments related to
industrial, comercial and residential projects that are in
accordance with ID? objectives.
9.        In addition to physical works, the ID? will finance:
(i) studies aimed at pubproject identification and preparation.
institutional development, resource mobilization, and improved financial
and technical management; and (Li) technical assistance for subproject
implementation and monitoring. Such studies may be financed on both a loan
or grant basis, when grant funds are available.
1.        General Sector Obiectives.  The general sector development
objectives are to:
Wa) maximize the productivity of existing investments in plant,
equipment and service networks;
(b) relieve bottlenecks and to fill strategic gaps in the urban
service network;
(c) facilitate rational and orderly growth and extension of urban
systems;
(d)  strengthen the capacity of state L-d local government
institutions to efficiently plan, manage, finance, maintain and
improve the provision of urban infrastructure and services.



Pag  a of -
11.       Selection Criteria.  The individual states and local goveruenats
themselves, together vith whichever merchant bank agroes to flnance a
particular project, shall be responsible for the selictlou of projects to
be financed under the ID?. Projects are to be solocted in accordance with
the following criteria:
(a) economic and financial bonefits:
(b) technical feasibility;
(c)  effective demnd for services and willingness of consu  ers to
pay, directly or indirectly, for the sorvicos provided^
(d) feasibility of the cost recovory uechanisa(s);
(c) institutional capability of the borrowing state or local
government to prepare and executo the project;
(f) the availability of technical assistance from domestic or
international sources to supplemnt the borrover'S
implementation capabilitLes, where necessary; and
(') creditworthiness, includLng the ability of the borrower to carry
the additional debt imposed by the project to be financed.
Projects selected should have a* econoaic rate of return (KU)
of at least 20 percent, and only in special circumstances where benefits
are difficult to quantify should projects with lower MUe be selected; ln
no case should a project's ERR be lover than 12.
October 1989



-41-
ANNEX 2-1
Page 1 of 4
FEDnAL RPURLIC o  NIGRIA
OYO STATB USA   PROJECT
DETAIL  DISCRIPTION Of Sf4 DR
Mp SOLID WAS2  CCPONO T5S
A.   Storm Dranaa  ad Flood Coitrol
1.        With the rapidly growing urbanization of Ibadan, the city has
experienced over the last 30 years about seven major floods of increasing
severity. The most recent flood of the Ogunpa Stream in 1980 caused the
loss of some 150 lives and damages estimated around 1500 million. OYSG and
FGN had recogaized the major threat posed by these streams and in 1970
comuissioned channelizatLon works of the Middle Ogunpa. Only 1.2 km havo
been completed so far, and 2.7 km are under construction with very slow
progress due to lack of adequate funding. N1o million have been provided
from the Federal Ecology Disaster fund through the Ogun-Osun River Basin
Development Authority to complete the ongoLng contract. The comitted
funds are estimated to be adequate for completion of these works.
2.        During pre-appraisal, priority strems and stream sctions had
been selected using frequency and severity of flooding, entent of built-up
areas, population density, and coherence of the drainage netvork as the
main critoria. From April to June 1988, OYSG with the assistance of World
Bank consultants prepared preliminary designs for 31.5 km of priority
sectlons of 3 main streams and major secondary channels, namely the Lower,
Middle and Upper Ogunpa Stream, the Kudeti/Yemetu Stream, and a short
section of the Ogbore (see IBID Map No. 21146). Due to overall cost
constraints a further process of prioritization roduced the total length to
be channelLzed in the first phase to about 14.5 km of the Ogunpa and the
KudetL main channels. For the major secondary channels only the required
structures (culverts, brldges) wi1l be included in the program; a now
brldge will also be constructed for the Ogbere Stream.
3.        Available rainfall records and the modifiod ratLonal method were
used to design the works for a flood wLth a 1 ln 25 years recurrence.
Least cost design approaches were employed for selecting rectangular
reinforcad concrete and trapezoLdal stone masonry sections to achieve the
following main objectives: (i) minimize demolitions of structures adjacent
to the stream beds (ii) provide access roads where space is available to
facilLtate regular maintenance and better access to residential areas; and
(iii) maimizo use of labor intensive construction methods. Culverts,
bridges (including pedestrian bridges), drop and junction structures would
be included in the works. Channel bed widths range from 40 a for the Lower
Ogunpa to 3 m for the Upper secondary channels. The length of the finally
selected sections to be channelized would be as follows:



- 42 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 2 of 4
Length in km.
Lower Ogunpa                             2.47
Middle Ogunpa (Main Chlamel)             2.84
Middle Ogupa (Coge)                      1.98
Upper Ogunpa (Main Channel)              3.95
Kudetl Stream                            3 09
4.        Due to lack of adequate planning control, i.e. without buildLng
approval, structures had been erected within the liits of the setOacks
(reserves) promalgated in 1962. The proliminary surveys and desig
attempted to reduce the number of affected structures to an absolute
miaLnmm. Approximately 100 structurom would be affected, but the defLiLte
nusber can only be doteomlned following detailed survey and desip. A
resettlemnt area will be developed in Yemetu as part of the coaunAty
upgrading program for that area and basic serviced plots would be provLded
for affected families. The OY5 Kzecutive Council has already approved a
Compensation and Rosettlemnat policy which avoLds undue hardships without
encouraging further illegal constructions in other stream setback.
S.        Since lack of adequate drsn maintenance is one of the major
causes of froquent flooding, provLseu; would be made '  the project for
funds for rehabilitation of approz. 50 kb of streams and secondary drains
not included in the priorlty channelLiation schem. While most of the
storm drainge maintenance works would be done by contract, a provision for
the purchase of essential drainage maintenance equipment (3 excavators,
3 loaderts 12 tlpper trucks) would also be included in the project.
B.   Solid Waste Kamaanot
6.        lefuse collection in lbadan is Lnadequate and uncollected refuse
causes unsanitary conditions and clogging of storm drains and streams.
There are insufficient refuse collection vehicles and the collection
sorvices by licensed private contractors, initiated in 1984, cover only the
well laid-out areas of the city. A 310 monthly fee is collected directly
by the contreactor from his customers. The only avaLlable dumpuite is
located iL a fully built-up area of lbadan and is presently filled well
beyond capacity. Two new landfill sites have been identified some 4 km
southeast and southwest rcspectively of the cLty and OYSG is in the process
of acquiring the sites. A prelilinary design study was prepared to
detenrmie the priority needs in equipmn at nd facilLties to improve solid
waste management tn Ibadan.
7.        As access to other areas Wmproves, refuse collection by private
contractors would be ratlonalited, better supervLsed and promoted by the
WPC. Refuse collection in areas with pooz access (the core areas and the
uncontrolled outer urban sprawl areas) would be managed by ZPC forces and
the project would provide 50 skLp collectLon poLits. fifteen cars would be
provLded as transportation for KPC supervisors and inspectors.



- 43 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 3 of 4
8.         soeuse of the large extension of Ibadan and the longer distances
to the nov landfill site, a refuse transfer station is required. Two
potentially suitable sites have been identified and OYSG is procecding with
efforts to acquire one of the sites. Site acquisition would be completed
by loan effectiveness. The transfer station would be designed to handle up
to 4,000 tons of solid waste daily, for transfer from collection vehicles
to 60 cu.a trailers hauled by tractor trucks to the landfill site. Six
trucks and 15 trailers would be provided.
9.        For increased oconmy and efficiency the transfer station would
be combined with a central office and workshop. The office buLlding would
accoomodate technical, administrative and supervisory staff and also house
facilities for the workers. A workshop with a floor area of about 1800
sq.m with aechanical equipment and spare parts store would be provided for
servicing and repalring the vehicle and equipment fleet. which would
include the storm drainage maintenance equipment.
10.       Preliminary surveys and investigations indicated that the
selected sites would be suitable for propor sanitary landfill op*rations
without risks to the nvironment. OYSO has already acquired the 10 ha
Ajakanga Pit* and has provided assurances thit the additionally required
adjacent site of approximately 150 ha would be acquired by loan
effectiveness. The project would lnclude funds for the construction of
a 3.5 km long access road to the landfill site, a weigh bridge and
miscellaneous site works. Three bulldozers and two wheeled loaders would
be provided for land-filling operations.
11.       Also provided would be funds for spare parts to refurbish broken
down collection vehicles. for aLiscellaneous tools and equipment, and for
design, tendor document preparation, contract administration and
construction supervision.
12.       The acquisition of vehicles and *quipment for the EPC would in no
way interfere with the operations of the private contractors, but only
equip the EPC in the short and medium term to carry out refuse collection
in areas lacking good access and ease of direct fee collection. The long
term objective would be to contract out collection services altogether to
the prLvate sector, but this would only be feasible after LGs have improved
thelr revenue situation. The proposed enhanced tenement rating system
would constitute a means of indirect cost recovery for solid waste
management services.
C.  ftviron.sntal Kanag nt
13.       The major reason for the increased incidence and severity of
flooding in the lbadan area is the incressed run-off of surface water
during and following heavy rainfall. This is due primarily to the removal
of vegetation cover in the water catchaent areas and its replacement with
high-density urban development, which reduces water retention and increases
the chances of flash-flooding. The project would begin to focus on the



- L4 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 4 of 4
severe environmental problems of lbadan through the establishment of an
Environmental Hanagement Departmeat within ZPC and the Oxecution of
*mergency civil works.
14.       Emrgency civil works to be funded through the project would
include a labor-intensive environmental rehabilitation program to restore
som 50 hectares of eroded areas, particularly on Ibadan's steep slopes in
the Upper Ogunpa catchmont areas. Zrosion gullies would be filled, top
soil and the vegetation cover restored and the area stabLlized through
tree-planting and grassing. These masures would reduce erosion of slopes
and silting of drains, white increasing water rctention.
15.       The refuse disposal landfill site oan Ring load has boen
overflowing and burning out of control slnce 1962. It lo an *yesore and an
environmental hazard to neighboring residential areas while leakages
pollute ground and surface water. The project would finance the
rehabilitation of the 20 ha landfill site as soon as an alternative
landfill site is brought into servico.
AF411
October 1989



- 4j -
Anne% 2-2
Page 1 of 2
DUL  IMIC of NIgCT
01O S1AT3 USUAl LZOaCT (IDFI 1U)
DITAfIM  D      MSCK O 0  TO   AlIXC AND TAUNSPOR? CMPONI!
1.       Public  ranaegort Submoepont n. While the publicly owned bus
company (TCTC) comenced operations in July 198, private sector minibuses
will continue to supply significant public transport capacity at least iu
the short/medium term. To support the ainibus operations and to alleviate
the major funding and maintenance problems faced by operators, the project
would:
(a) provide a line of credit to enable spare parts to be purchased.
The credit would bo administered by the owners and operators
cooperatives
(b) fund a service contor (provision of a small workshop and parts
center, equipment and technical assistance) where minibuses could
be effectivoly maintained. The center would be operated on a
commercial, cost recovery basis; and
(c) fund equipment for the Vehicle Inspection Office (VIO) for testing
the roadworthiness of minibuses thereby providing an incentive for
minibus drivers to utilizo the service center.
2.       Discussions have been held with the relevant owners and drivers
associations and cooperatives (Nigerian Transport Owners Association, Road
Transport Employers Association, and National Union of Road Transport
Workers - Ibadan) rogarding the line of credit and service center, and
agreement has been reached on the principles of the program. The Pfis
would be involved in financing the subcomponent, the Ibadan Municipal
Government (DIG) vould administer the credit through the trahsport owners"
associations.
3.       The equipment for the VIO is required to enable the inspectorate
to fulfill its duties of testing public transport vehicles for
roadworthiness and drivers for competence. The equipment will include
items such as patrol cars, light towing vehicles, communications equipment
and equipment to test vehicles on street (head lights, brakes, tires,
etc.). OYSG would establish a regulation that any minibus failing a test
would be,2equired to be nsupected at the service center and although
repairs at the center cLamot be made mandatory. it is anticipatod that most
vehicles will use the facilities to carry out the necessary repairs.



- 46 -
Anne 2-2
Page 2 of 2
4.       The VIO would be responsible for the technical coordination of the
public transport subcoponent. The line of credit would finance all
aspects of the private sector program. 1.. design and building of the
service antor, technical assistance to establish and start up thd center
and procu;*a.  and stacking procedures for the spare parts.  The
facilities would be oporated on a fully cost recovering basis.
Outline SCOD for toad MAintenaneo Studr
S.       This study will bo carried out by consultants but vith.the
involvement of the Maintenance Division, Kiistry of Works and Transport
(MWT) and the scopo of work will includes
Ca)  a review of agency (Federal, State   MG and other LOS)
responsibilities for road maintenance in Ibadan and state-wides
Cb)  a review of MWT and other agency road maintenance planning and
budgeting proceduresl
(c) an appraisal of the procedures and techniques appiled by each
agency, including identification of costs, appraisal of their
effectiveness (cost/km ete);
(d) a review of equipment, facilities and staff available for force
account maintenance and its condition;
(e) determination of existing road and traffic facility conditions for
the A & I class roads and a sample of C class roada;
(f) definition of proposed maintenance standards. procedures and
responeibilities;
(g)  preparation of a 5 Year Maintenance Plan; and
(C) preparation of an action plan, target dates, budgets, staff
levels, etc. requa.red to implemnt the Maintenance Plan.
AP4IN
October 1989
!



- 47 -
'Pag'eIof
aL U    LiC OF wSCu
OYO STATE U3A PfLOJKCt
DETAXLtD DZSCIPTION OP coSnITY IMPIOY   NTOGRM
A.    ackground and Objectives
1.        The Counity Improvement Program (CIP) will be the flrst major
effort in Oy State, and probably Ln NLgeria as a vhole, to provide a
comprehensive range of essential Infrastructure and sorvices iMprovements
in an integrated mannor to poorly sorvod and predominantly low inco=e
neighborhoods of Ibadan. The program is seen as the beginning of a longer
term program vhich over time, would upgrade all such neighborhoods in
Ibadan estimated to cover some 4,800 hectares and accoumodating about
2 million people.
2.        The infrastructure and services to be provLded would  Mprove the
efficient functioning of the areas, the health of the inhabitants and the
general quality of life by improving internal access, circulation,
drainage, water and electric power supply and community facilitLes such as
health clinics, and open spaces.
3.        In 1984 the Town Planning Division of the Kinistry of Local
Government (nov of the Ministry of Lands, Sousing and Survoys) stuOlod a
number of densely populated and poorly served areas of the city with a view
to selecting a number of priority areas to be included Lu a possible World
Bank supported project. The studied areas ezhibited similar
characteristics in that they vere predominantly low incom areas generally
unplanned, densely populated and lacking in infrastructure and services.
From a preliminary study three areas, were selected for more detailed
analysis, namely, (i) Mokola, an old well laid-out core area of the city
that once had an adequate infrastructure which had fallen into disrepair;
(ii) Yemotu, another old core area which had never been adequately served;
and (iII) £gugu a newer fringe area which had developed on the edge of the
city with no planning and aLnimal lnfrastructure and services typical of
many of the newr 'urban sprawl areas Lsnide and outside the Expreseway
along the eastern fringe of the city.
4.        After the early preliminary work by the Town Planning Division of
the State government, in February 1988 the former Ibadan Metropolitan
Planning Authority (INPA) w&3 given the task of preparing detailed
proposals for the areas. The initial proposats prepared by uIA and its
consultants proposed layouts which contained a high level of new roads and
new comunity space with consequent high cost, extensive demolitLon of
properties and leaving many propertLes remote from paved access. After
consultation with the Bank, the adoption of more innovative planning and
engineering approaches and the utilizatiots of fuictional standards
su;ceeded in achieving lower cost and more affordable solutions. This will
!I 



ANNEX 2-3
Page Z of 5
directly benefit a greater number of people ai*d dramtically reduce the
number of houses requiring removal (and hence resettlement and
compensation). Occupied buildings requiring demolition and families
requiring resettlement now number 0 in Mokola, 24 in Yomtu and 23 in
Agugu. At each site, resettlement areas have already been Ldentified.
Rteettlemnt costs and replacement valuo of buildings demolished would be
included in the costs of the program. The larger area available at Yemetu
would also be laid out with serviced plots to resettle those families to be
displaced by the proposed major drainage works in the nearby Kudeti-Yemetu
stream.
5.        Participation of the commities in the planning and design of
the progrm has been an important part of the planning and design process,
and which is to continue during implementation and subsequent operation and
maintenance. The final proposals represent those which each commlty has
played a part in developing and has concurred with. Separate meetings were
held with each of the communities where DKPA and its consultants presented
and discussed the proposals at length with the communities. The
significant number of people who attended tho meetings shows the
enthusiastic support gilven to the program by the comnAitios.
S. Detailed Description of the Proarm
6.        The program would provide comprehensive and integrated
infrastructure and serwices improvements to Nokola (gross area 44 ha,
population of 22,000); Yemetu (gross area 46 ha. population of 25,000); and
A6gugu (gross area 47 ha, population of 18,500). Thus some 139 hectares
housing approximately 65,500 people would benefit from improvements which
would include roads, footpaths, drainage, water supply, electric power
supply, street lighting, toilet facilities, public telephone facilities and
community facilittes. Improved access would also permit more efficient
refuse collection by IG and its contractors.  Necessary  off site'
infrastructure to link the proposals to city wide systems would also be
provided to ensure son site' provisions are able to operate at optimum
levels.
7.        Given the variation in existing conditions, topography, age,
levels of servici and population densities in the comunities, it is not
possible nor desirable to adopt rigid planning or engineering standards.
Standards applied have thus been flexible and modified according to the
particular situation and conditions.
8.        The lack of water supply in the coamuaities and ln the city as a
whole is probably the most critical infrastructure problem. At present.
works to rehabilitate water supply installations to allow plants to deliver
up to their design capacities are underway. However, despite this program,
water rationing in the city is likely to continue for some years. Thus
Water Corporation of Oyo State (WCOS) is to relax its policy of
'elimination of standpipes' for the communities in the CIP and permit
existing stgndpipes to be rehabilitated provided they are manned and



- 49 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 3 of 5
metered and the communities take responsibility for operation. IMPA and
its consultants have agreed on this concept with WCOS.
9.        During preparation of the detailed engineering proposals,
dialogue would also continue with the other sectoral agencies involved in
the CIP, namely NEPA, NITEL, EPC, as well as 1IG to ensure final proposals
meet with the requirements of these agencies and agreement is reached on
the take-over of the respective facilities on satisfactory completion.
10.       The proposals to be included in the program have been identified
from longer term developmqnt plans prepared by IMPA (decentralized in early
1989 to the LG Town Planning Sections) and its consultants for each
community. Such proposals generally accord with these longer term plans
and would be capable of incremental improvement over time, as aad when,
further improvements are able to be afforded and the communities are
prepared to make available the necessary land and buildings that would be
required for such further improvement. To better be able to control
further development in the areas and particularly on infrastructure
alignments, each community area will be declared a Town Planning Scheme
Area under Cap 123 of the Laws of Oyo State. In addition to the physical
improvements, technical assistance would be provided to IMG for detailed
design and supervision of the implementation of the program.
C.  Progrsm Costs and Financin,
11.       The total cost of the ('IP is estimated at US$7.5 million, of
which the foreign exchange component is estimated at US$4.8 million, 64? of
the total program cost. The improvements will cost an average of US$55'237
per hectare gross or an average US$112 per capita gross.
12.       The program for Mokola and Yemetu would be financed by IMG using
(i) project loan funds borrowed from OYSG under a LG onlending agreement,
and (ii) their own LG counterpart funds (10?). Cost recovery will be
achieved by IMG through the revised tenement rating system to be introduced
through the project and by user charges. The IMG would also be responsible
for maintaining certain facilities i.e. roads, drainage, and solid waste
collection. The IMG would allocate maintenance funds annually for this
purpose from tax revenues. Operation and maintenance of water supply,
electricity supply, telecommunication and solid waste management would be
the responsibility of the respective delivery agencies (i.e. UCOS, NEPA,
NITEL and ESC) who will recover their costs through regular user charges.
The coumunities would be responsible for maintenance of footpaths, tertiary
drainage and public toilets.
D.   Progra  ImDlemntation
13.       The LGs through their Town Planning Sections (TPS) would be
responsible for implementation of the CIP'. They will coordinate and
prepare the program with the help of consultants. A Steering Committee is
to be established to help implement the program. The Steering Caomittee



- 50 -
ANNUl 2-3
Page ' of S
vould consist of officere representing the concerned Klni'tries of the
stato governments, the celevant local government; the relevant sectoral
agencies including WCOS, NIP&. NITIL, and hPC. as well as a representative
from each of the thcee conmities to initially benefit from the program.
This Comittee would met regularly, to monitor progress of the final
designs and subsequent UIpl _ ntation: to aseist in solving problem as and
when they occur and to ensure coordination of the iulti-sectoral program.
14.       The LGIPS would, with the aid of consultants, be responsible for
preparation of final deigine and tender documnts for the various contract
packages proposed, continued liaison with the reopective comunities,
tendering aud contract award procedures in accordance with state govenmnt
norn. suporvision of the construction worc, pament of contractors
(following PCU approval) and all necessary tasks until the handoavr of the
cowested facilities and network  to the  alncies rosponsiblo for their
subsequent oporation and maintenance. The core staff of the former DGA
has beoe retained to implemnt the CSP on behalf of DO.
15.       The mjor physical worcs in each of the commuitLos would be
carried out by local contractors registered with 0yo State Covernment.
Only contractors aolding tte hithest claosificatLoz and appropriately . -
experienced to carry out ilti-sectoral works in difficult conditions would
be prequallfied. It is envisaged that the type of works, the sixe of
contracts (US$2.0 million approximtely), the difficult working conditions
and the need for close liaison with each comuanity sro unlikely to attreact
foreign contractors other then those already established in Nigeria who
would be eligible So bid for the contracts.
16.       The works will be packaged on an "area" basis and not a
"component" basis, for the following reasons: (i) many diverse elements are
involved, e.g. roads, drainage, water supply, electricity supply, etc; (Li)
the works would be carried out in densely populated and gonerally unplanned
communities; Ciii) the need for the works to cause minimum disruptLon over
the shortest possible time  (iv) the risk of one contractor daaging other
contractors* workes Cv) the need to reduce roschoduling and coordination of
the differcnt progrms. Comprehenlve contracts which would lnclude all or
nearly all of the components planned for the particular comunity, would be
arcded and only one contractor would be rcsponsible for work ln any one
area at any one tlm.
17.       It is envisaged that 3 major infrastructure contracts would be
awarded with each arcea being divided into 3 sub-areas for construction
phasing purposes. Contracts would likely range from USS2.0 sillion to
US$2.5 million. Tender documents would be prepared to a standard
appropriate for international bidding although local competitivo bidding
procedures would be followed. In all mattors relating to approval of
tender documents, tender evaluations. contract awards, payment of
contractors and such similar matters, DIM would refor to and seek the
approval of the PCU situated in the UhSP which has responsibility for
overall coordination of the Project and operation of the Project accounts.



_ SL _
ANNEX 2-3
Page 5 of 5
E.   !Lesttlme_at
18.       In addition to about 50 structures affected by the CTP, somn 100
buildings would be demolished due to the storm drain channelization works.
In order to address the specific needs of the 150 famdlies requiring
resettlemont OYSC would formulate a compensation policy and draw up a
concrete reoettlement plan which would be based on the findings of the
socio-sconomic survey which were carried out for the commiity improvement
areas (similar housing and income conditions prevail in the zones along the
storm drain channels). Government's policy and plan would deal with
procedures for property valuation, payment of compensation, issuLng of
certificates of occupancy for new plots, assistance wLth credit and
materials if necossary, reestablishment of employment, comunity
facilities, and other needs such as restoring the social network of the
comunity.
19.       Preliminary plans for the resettlement areas had boen reviewed
during appraisal, and detail designs, tendering and construction of the
resettlement areas (comprising small plots with basic infrastructure) vill
be carried out together vith, and as part of, the CIP.  The cost of
developing the resettlement areas would be financed under the project.
October 1989
k~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- i2 -
ANNEX 2 - 4
Page 1 of 8
MUkL U?ILZC OF GC
OTO Ss PIOJUC
1.   D3TAnL   DoscUtIOW or LOCAL                 TO1S C011  DICLUDI:
DRAF?       ofN OFUOILZ  0  P?A136 AND EUYISTHMU  PROGRAM STTThIIS
A.   sackaround and Obiectives
1.        The large number of urban centers of substantial size and
importance in Oyo State led to the inclusion of the Prlority Towns
Component in the project. The six LO tos were solected by OYSO in
consultation with the Division of Urban and Regional Planning of M E.
The lnitial selection criteria employed wore population size, economic
base, growth potential administrative importance, comitment to Cost
recovery principles, infrastructure and services deficiencies, regional
balance and equity within the stato. following government's selection of
Ile-Ife, Ilesa, Ogbomoso, Osogbo, Oyo and Saki, an overview assessment of
goneral conditions, needs and developent prospects wa* carriod out by the
Bank during project preparation which conflmed the high priority accorded
to these towns. Very important aspects are the strong will and support of
the comunities. The proliminary proposals presonted in June 1988 indicate
compotence, good knowledge of local conditions and constraints, a great
degreo of enthusiasm for the project, but also a need for additional
support with the preparation of prioritization studies and detailed
proposals.
2.        The objectlves of this Component would aim to improve the
efficient functLoning of the towns, to assist in stimulating economic
activity and to improve the quality of life of the inhabitants (improved
health and environmental conditions). To achieve this *city-vidoe
infrastructuro and services, invostments would be supported where these
were considered important and achieved sufficLent benefits. Similarly.
comunaity improveuent programs would be undertaken to facilitate the
upgrading and ehbabllitation of, for the most part, secondary and tertiary
infrastructure, arca by area across the town in a comprchensive and
integrated mann,r. These would involve the active participation of the
bonefitting comunities in. planning and implementation phases as well as
ln subsequent maintenance of facilities to be provided.
3.        The improvements to be identified would be the initial
investments of the prLorLtized in"qstment programs to be determined in
detail as part of the planning exercise to be carried out for each of the
selected towns. Simple Structure Plans and Infrastructure Development
Plans would bo prepared from which rolling Infrastructure Znvestment
Programs would be formulated. These plans and programs would be prepared
by consultants working with the TPS and LO Counciid of each town. and
engaged, coortdinated and suporvised by the Town Planning Division of MLHS.



- 53 -
ANNEX 2-4
Pazg 2 of 8
The planning exercises in each town, vhich are seen as intense ctivities
of short duration, would beo omneed early to ensure that say priority
investment proposed is in concert with the overall infrastructure
developmat plans for that town and that it is able to operate at its
optimum level once copleted. (See Section It for draft 'Terms of
Reference for the Preparation of Plans and Program'.)
4.        In addition to preparation of plans, the Town Planning Division,
the LGC TPS and the consultants would review land and plot delivery iystems
(including Town Planning Schemes) with a view to determining whether such
systmem can be made more *ffective. The *ntire planing and developmeat
control legislation would be reviewed with the objective of developing
planning policies and regulations that are more effective in gpeerally
guiding development, in protecting the environment, in delivering
appropristo infrastructure and services, and in ensuring the optioma use of
such infrastructure and servic*s.
5.        Three other important objectives of the component would bat
(a) the strengthening of programs of routine and periodic maLntenance of
infrastructure by the LGC to ensure that investments made In infrastructure
are properly m*intained in the future: (b) the iLprovement in the finacial
position of each of the LGs involved in the project in order that the
efforts coimenced under the Project can be replicated In future over other
areas of the towns and also that tho facilities provided will bo properly
maintained (thus during the course of the project a study of the finncos
of each LGA would be carried out and improved resource mobilization and
cost recovery measures recomended); finally, (c) the improvement of the
information database comencing vith aerial photography and the production
of line maps for both technical and cadastral use.
S.   Component Description. Cost and Vincfing
1.        A line of credit would be established undor the Project for the
rehabilitation and improvement of infrastructure beginning in the towns of
Oyo,Ilesa. Ile-Ife. Ogbosoo. O.ogbo and Saki. Based on the preliminary
work already carried out by the former Local Planning Authorities (LPAs) in
conjunction with the LG's, and the studies referred to earlier, detailed
proposals will be finalized. appraised by the Pfls following IDF appraisal
criteria and impleownted accordingly. A total of US$35.8 million base cost
plus contingoncies would be availablo for this component.
2.        Initial programs to be carried out over the first two years of
the project, costing up to US$2.50 million for each town, would be prepared
and appraised as a matter of priority. Subsequent availability of funds
for further sub-projects in each of the towns would be dependent on the
perfonmnce of the LG's and their Town Planning Section (TPS); in the
quality of the initial project ia terms of design and construction: the
speed of implementation and the arrangements established, both within the
LC and the bonefitting comunities: the provision of adequate counterpart
fund"; and for operation and maintenance of facilities provided in the



- 34* -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 3 of 8
Lnitial prograns. In addition. subsequent availabilLty of funds would also
be dependent on the performanco of tho La's in adopting improved revenue
generation policies and actual performance in the impleomntation of such
polLcios (e.g. tenemsent or property tax systm and collections).   nitial
progrm performnce indicators would bo developed together vith the
modalities for the implemetation by a caltteo within the state
governmat with rolovant ministries represented as well as representatives
fro, each LO and the PFIs. all coordinated by the PCU.
C.  XMliUtatloM
1.        The Town Plnning DivLsion of the MLUS woald have overall
responsibillty for the whole component. Yor preparatLon of the Structure
Plans, Infrastructure Development Plane end Investment Programs for each
town, the Town Plnning DivLiLon would b. responsLble for engagement of
consultants and supplyLng counterpart staff and supporting facilities.
The DLvisLon would be responsible for coirdination with the TIS and Lo's
in each tovn and would involve the Departmaet of Local Governent as
necessary.
2.        ResponsLbliLty for implementation of the physical works progrms
in each town will rest primarily with the La who would be the contractual
party with contractors carrylng out physical works. However, the LPA would
act as advlsors or agents of the LG all under the supervision of the Town
Planning Dlv-l.von of the  .HES.  ResponsibliLty for project supervlsion vill
rest with the Kerchant Banks. A Steering Comsittee vould guide and monitor
implementation of the overall component.
D.   Tecbnlcal Asslstance and Consultina ServLces
I.        The Town Planning DLvLsLon of the MLHS would engage consultants
to work with staff of the DivlsLon and LG's of the priority towns to
prepare the Structure Plans, Infrastructure Development Plans and
Investment Program. It is envisaged that consortia of local and foreign
consultants would provLde multL-disciplinary teams to carry out the
studies. or economy and speed the fLrst six towns would be divLded into
2 groups wLth one consultancy for Oyo, Ogbomoso and SakL and the other for
Oeogbo, ilesa and Ilc-Ife. This grouping has bcqn based on geographical
considerations. Suggested draft Tern of Reference for consultancies had
been preopaed at appraisal. It is envLsaged that for each town
approxiaately 15 person months of professional lnput would be requLred.
Thus for each consultancy covering 3 towns each approzxmately 45 person
months of piofessional input is envisaged each study being completed withLn
6 months from comiencement.
2.        In addition to the two consultancy assignments for detailed plan
and program preparation in the 6 towns a small expert advLsory and training
ten would work wLth the Town PlIannin Dlvislon. This teas would asstst
the Division ln overseeing and rewlewiLg the work of the consultants,'TPS
and LGs preparing the plans and programs for each town Licluding



ANMEX 2-4
Page 4 of a
preparation of the Ibadan plan.  In addition the team would, inter alia
assist the Division in the review of the whole planning and development
control guidance legislation for the state including the serviced land and
housing delivery systems.
Ii.  DRAn MMU OVF MUMUM FOR PRVARATlOI OF A SThBCTOU  PtAN.
IN0M.£?XD DIN1ST       UU DhMVAOI  PLAN AND -sM I? POGRAM OF
smucDTOMS
A.   Itroduction
1.        It is apparent that many of the larger towns In Oyo State have
developed in a largely unplanned and ad-hoc mnner. Local Planning
Authorities (LPA) without any 'Development Plan to work to and little or
no Legislative powers to guide developmnt, essentially were 'Building
Approval* rather than 'Planning' authorities. The lack of a *Development
Plan' or even up-to-date accurate base maps showing the existing situation.
and the lack of effective planning powers was exacerbated by tho fragmented
administration at the local level. There was no formal link between the
local governmnt and an area and the Local Planning AuthorLtys water supply
is the responsibility of the Water Corporation of Oyo State (WCOS);
eLectricity is the responsibility of the National Electric Power Authority
.?NEPA); and solid waste managument is the responsibility of the State's
Environmental Protection Comission (EPC).
2.        The above factors together with funding constraints on the part
of those responsible for delivery of infrastructure and urban services,
have resulted in the haphasard development of areas which are largely
unserviced. The Land Use Decree appears to have further worsened the
situation with regard to planed and properly serviced development.
Development of larger tracts of land in a planned manner by private
developers appears to be no longer possible as larger areas of Land could
be assembled only by the aPA's under the 5Town Planning Schemes'. The
LPA'e had attempted to demonstrate how development might bo more
efficiontly planned and imploented under these Town Planning Schemes
(LPA'. can appropriate land with compensation payable only for the crops
thereon).  However, these schemes have generally been poorly located,
inefficieot in terms of land use (e.g. large square plots) and largely
unsorviced. With few ezcoptions they have been unsuccessful.
3.        In sumary, Oyo State therefore has sizeable towns (250,000 -
600,000 population) with no coherent planning, and no effective plot
delivery/housing programs (public or private). There is overcrowding in the
older existing core aresas and individual developments taking place in many
cases on unsuitable land, such as natural drainage channels, good
agricultural land And steep slopes. These developments are both difficult
and expensive to service by the responsible delivery agencies and thus, in
most cases, have not been provided with serviceas  Owners and occupiers
normally fend for themselves with regard to water supply, sanitation and



- 56 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page s of 8
drainage. Acces is predominantly by unsurfaced gravel roads subject to
severe erosLon in the steeper areas. The existing infrastructure in many
of tho towns has often not boon fully optimized in terms of its use nor has
it generally been well maintained.
4.        There is clearly a need to begin to address the problems and
deficiencies of the secondary towns and to deal wLth thelr uncontrolled
growth through the preparations of simploe structure Planes and short range
'Integrated Infrastructure Development Plans. These plans would
constitute the framework for formulating infrastructure investment
program., likely to be rolling programs of a 3 year - 5 year time horizon.
S.        It might be expected that the 'traditional  master plan (wherever
such a plan existed) would assist in a balanced, orderly and economic
development of infrastructure. This tends not to be the case. TraditLonal
master plans usually take a long time to produce, and are often out of date
when completed, thus failing to respond to the dynamic nature of
development. Furthermore, emphasis is usually on land use without
sufficient consideration for topography, buried utilities and other
constraints. Their most significant shortcoming, is that in most cases,
the inablilty of implementing agencies to fund such physLeal proposals is
not taken into account. Plans are based only on percelved need and
traditLonal standards, i.e. such plans are often totally unrealistLc as
they disregard the available financial mans. Bence lt is proposed that
simple *Structure Plans' 'Integrated Infrastructure Development Plans' and
'Infrastructure Investment Programs' be prepared based on reasonable
funding projections.
6.        To prepare the plans as quickly as possible it is envLsaged that
the HinLstry of Lands, Housing and Surveys State Town Planning DlvisLon,
and the Town Planning Seoctions in the various LGs would require the
assistance of consultants. (Note: The formerly separate Local Planning
Authorities have as of January 1, 1989 been transformed Lnto Town Planning
Sections which are part of the LG Council administration). Significant
inputs to the exercise would however be necessary not only from the Town
Plannlng DivisLon, but also from local governme nts, sectoral and utillty
agencies and co unity groups wLthln the respective towns.  Planners,
engineers, fLnancial officers, administrators, social workers, non-
governoental organizations and the private sector should all be involved.
7.        Key factors in plan development would not only be priorLty needs,
but also implementation capacLty of delivery agencLes, consLderation of the
beneflts to be gained from discrete plan proposals, and affordability at
state government, local government, sectoral agencies and beneficiaries
levels. Attention would thus be paid to existing resource mobillzation and
the scope for lts enhancement. This would be of paramount Lmportance for
the successful and timely implementation of plan proposals.
8.        The structure plans would cover a 5-7 year time frame (to year
1995) and proposals would be prLoritized. The assembly and review of on-



AM=EX 2.4
Page 6 of a
going and proposed plans of the various sectoral agencLos involved in
development vould be an important part of plan preparation.
B.   Isti ote. of taits R qr
1.        The preparation of the plans and programs would be an intense
exercise taking no more than 6 months of elapsed tim and requiring no more
than 12-15 person months of profeasional input from consultants por town.
The following disciplines would, inter all&, be necessarys urban planning,
municipal engineering, financial analysisleconomics, sociology and
environmental sciences. A counterpart toer from the Tows Planning
Division, TPS, La-s, with input from sectoral agencies would be nocessary
to assist the consultants in the plan preparation exercise.
C. Detailed Sc2eo of Work and Sasks--Data Collection. Review and
Assessent
1.        Base line planning data to be roviewed will include statistics,
plans and reports which, with field visits and dLicussLons with the
relevant department officials, will detecrfne the existing situation
regarding engineering infrastructuro, municipal services, housing,
coomrcial and industrial plots dolivetry population distribution;
projected growth; present 'pd proposed land use; environmental problems;
areas of high agricultural potentiall natural drainage cournes etc., and
organization and financial arrangemnts of dolivery of infrastructure.
housing and services.
2.        Previously prepared, partially completed 'Master Plans.  and
available data, records, maps. ete. for infrastructure system will be
reviewed.
3.        Field visits to verify data will be carried out where necessary.
4.        Plans for ongoing and future development (residential,
institutional, ceoercial. and industrial) together vith infrastructure
proposals will be studied with particular regard to current water supply
(rca and treated) augmentation proposals: waste water disposal proposals:
major roads and drainage proposals and electrification proposals, as well
an natural (topography, geology, etc.) opportunities and constraints.
5.        To assist in determining alternatiOes for water supply, waste
water collection and/or disposal, road and drainage routing, the following
will be studieds hydrological data, watercourse profiles, areas suitable
for irrigation, groundwater recharge. sludge/solid waste disposal areas,
soil characteristics, deovelopmnt densities, topography of the various
catchmnet areas of town, and existing WlA use.
6.        For water supply, the ezisting plan and iquipment, collection and
distribution networks will be studied, and options for expansion and
rehabilitation of the system will be-evaluated.



- j8 -
MIN2X 2-4
Page 7 of 8
7.        To be reviewd and assessed in the light of present economic and
financial realities are the existing practices, standards and
specifications, historically used in the planning, design, and construction
of infrastructure. The provision of services both primary, secondary and
tertiary as well as housing, co mrcial and industrial plot delivery will
also be considered.
8.        Annual capital expenditures on infrastructure separated by state
and local government in the twnus wil  be roviewd as with comitted and
actual expenditures. Operating costs expended annually over the previous
5 years will also be reviewed. Present cost recovery systems and their
efficiency will be ezamaod with emphasis on deterring appropriate
improvemets thereto.
D.   Plan Desim  sad Investmat Proaras Preparation
1.        On the basis of the data collected and reviwwed and further
guided by the population projections, the infrastructure and maintenance
requirewats for the subsequent 3-7 yoer period will be assessed with
regard to* potable water, waste water generation, electrical supply,
telecomunications, housing, cormercial and industrial plots,
transportation, access and circulation, garbage collection and disposal.
2.        Deficiencies and requiroents to cope with growth (residential,
comercial, and industrial) will be identified and strategies for providing
affordable infrastructure and services suggested. Where facilities ezist,
devolopmnt plans will, as a first priority, attempt to optimize the use of
such facilities through rehabilitation and other suitable means.
3.        Technically feasLble alternatives for infrastructure and services
delivery (water supply, drains and roads) will be developed and reviewed.
Where appropriate, evaluation of alternatives will be carried out to
determine least-cost solutions. Affor4ability by Los, beneficiaries and
ratepayers would be an important consideration in the acceptability of
proposals put forward. Developmnat of appropriate functional and
affordable standards for Lafrastructurelservices would therefore be
necessary.
4.        A simple Structure Plan map indicating existing and proposed land
uses to guide directions of growth would be prepared, and from this staged
plan vhich would provide infrastructure iL a balanced and a coordinated
manner, would be proposed. The plan would be clearly shown on base maps of
appropriate scale.
5.        Based on this plan, a suggested investment program appropriately
prioritized, costed and phased will bo prepared.
6.        In addition, for selected priority areat  in each town e.g.
central districts, major market, etc., detailed local devoloptient plans
would be prepared to appropriate scale and to a sufficiont level of detail



ANNX 2- -
Page a o; 3
to ^erzit rapid preparation of detailld engineering. bid documents and
subsequent implementation.
E.   MUtUt and Report Repuir!_Uts
1.        An Inception Report setting out the consultants detailed approach
and work plan. timing of individual consultants inputs. counterpart
requirements would be prepsrad and subsitted within 2 weeks of coemncoment
of the study.
2.        A Draft Final Report (30 copies) with the Structure Plan and
Integrated Infrastructure Developm_nt Plan, would be prepared and submitted
within 4 months of co me ncement of the study. The report would include all
necessary text, maps, charts, table diagrams etc. to support the plan
recommendations and to respond fully to the scope of wock and tasks set out
earlier.  The recommendations would clearly indLcate how  Structure Plan
proposals for improvements to urban services and infrastructure network
expansions would increase the level, efficiency and coverage of
infrastructure and services and be of economic, as well as social, benefit
to the town. Where appropriate, rates of return calculations would support
sub-projects proposed within the plans/investment programs
3.        A detailed Investment Progrm would be produced (as part of the
draft report) for a ten year period. AnAual prioritized programs would be
presented for the first S year period with lndicative costs for the
subsequent 5 year period of time. Unit costs used in estimating investing
program tequirements would be clearly shown together with any foreign
exchange requirement duties and taxes. Present day costs at the time of
plan preparation would be used throughout the investment program. Price
contingencies, physical contingencies and other costs would be estimated
separately on the annual base costs.
4.        The draft report will also make preliminary recomendations for
the maintenance arrangements for infrastructure elemonts to be provided and
for assets operations and maintenance costs. These vould be considered
together with capital costs in arriving at optimum solutions.
S.        Following reviewv and come nt on the  Draft Final Report* by
relevant Government agencies within one month of submission, a 'Final
Report' (30 copies) which would be similar to the Draft Final Report but
suitably amended to reflect coments, vould be submitted within one mounth
of receipt of such comments (i.e. 6 months after commencement of the
study).
October 1969



- 60 -                                 Annex 2-5
Page 1 of 8
OVO STATE U      IAnLITATION P6JCT (IDF II)
KETALD COST TAKLS
TOTAL
coaw                        LOCAL   FUSON       TOTAL
QJS '000)
A. MRASRUCRME N4IUTATION (UPS"
Stom Draimp A Flood Contrel
Orain Chamimeiastie.
Ls_ egups                           801      1,200      1,508
Middle arm"                         817      1,2"       1,5l"
Mid OgMpW  Sc Drne(Struct.only)      TO        314        898
Cop Strom                            22        918      1,141
Upper Oape                           8       1,54       1,94U
Up OguIp. Sec Orns(Struct. only)     78        292         66
YC_ u (Struct./Eroelon Protetn)      169       as6        794
Kudeti Str nm                                2,274      2,648
Obsre (3rlds only)                    is       817        896
Subbotal Chsmllion                  2,192      c,770    10,162
Clearing of Rere                      78           0        781
Oraln R.hbilltatioe                              777 m    1,01
iblntenanc Equipesnt                   09      1,060      1,149
Dlon                                  187       411        s4
Supervision                          1in         266        486
Storm Drnage. A Flood Control Bo      8,42    11.828    14,665
Physical Conting ,cis                 521      1,624      2,145
Price Conting ies                     6sz      1,664      2,556
Storm Drnao . A Flood Control Total    4,965    14,611    19,606
so I d waste Manasest
CivilI Works
Off lao                               7        227        824
Works                                111       S4         448
Transfer Station                     12        515        644
LanIllI Site Incl. aoo_a road        lII        54        471
CO_pAalon                            S2          0         C2
Design nd Supervision                 80       121        151
Subtotal Civil Works                  Su       1,660      2,066
Equipmet
Collection Vehicles                  so      1,619      1,674
ContAinsr (O cubic mate skips)        a1       208        264
Transfr Trucks                        11       841        851
Tra lora (60 cublc mnter)             16       611        627
Bulldozers                           19        S18        682
Wheled Leaders                        10       VA         $19
Viac. Vehicles and Equipmant          U        841        461
Cars for Supe"lrsro                  5        164        169
Workshop Equipmeit                    14       216        280
lisc. Tools un Equilpmnt              11       101        118
Sper. Parts                           7        227        284
Procur  ntm Assistance                 0        e1        101
Subtoltl Equipmnt                     280      4,0V6      5,155
Sol id Wate Mabnagmnt oe Cost          7?7       6,475      7,248
Phylical Conti  nies                   10        752        a66
Price Contin_  les                     15C       640        796
Solid wasts t nagmat Total Coot        1,C01     7,967      6,60



- 61 -                                   Annex 2-5
Page 2 of 8
TOTAL
cowmuw                      LOCAL   FUIN        TOTAL
(U '000)
Enviromental Ra illtstlon
Lan  III SIt Re habhi ItatIon          79         79        159
Erosion Control Messures              116         20       16
Delsn and Superilon                    5         19         24
Envir_omental RTebiltation Sow          190        119        a1l
Physical Contiin elnci                 20         12         82
Price Continncie -I "                                        44
Environmntal Rehlbilltation Totel       25         189        a0
Pubilc Transport Assitane
Line of Crdit (Spero part.)            42        m1         424
VID 5quaitnt                           11         74         a
Subtotal Public Transport                U         4CC        509
Public Tranoport Assist.  s Cost         U         465        Sao
Physical Contingencl                   5         46         51
Price Contngenci                       11         4          59
Public Transport Asist. Toatl Cost       70        549        619
Cossunity Iprovewt Progrm
Access
Roads Rehabiltation                  2          6          I
DistributorRoad   7.8                 15        85         50
AcesRood Ty"sW6                      51        116        186
Accsf Rood Typ I W 4                  11        25         85
tpth Typ W1S                         16         42         60
Footpath Type W 2 SD                  12        27         t9
Subtotal Access                       IN         25         861
Drainage
Stor Ser                             25         57         82
Ope Channel Typo Lined              111        2619        71
Open Channl Typo Lined                6          6          9
CulVerte PIP                          2          C          7
Ancillary Works                      21         s0         71
Subbotal Drainep                      162        870        58
Waer Supply
200m dil. Pipllnes                    is        64         60
lC0 _ dim. Pipeline                  10         B9         49
loom di_. Pippllnm                    5         19         24
Oooster Pmp Station                   13        71         69
Service Reservoir                    1i         70         Is
Subtotal Water Supply                  so        264        80
Sanitation
Publilc Toileft VP (20 plac)          9         21         s0
Electric Supply
500 (vs Tranwformr S/S                *         C2         s0
#00 Klv Tranorer S/3                  2         11         12
11 Kv A 415 v Cbe d OJH Lin           2         12         14
41 v S Pha   Supply                    1        10         11
Rehabilitation                         1         6          7
Subtotal Electricity Poer Supply        14        91        104



- 62 -                                  Annex 2-5
Page 3 of 8
TOTAL
aw@u4                      LOCAL   FREMI       TOTAL
-tes(  - "ODD)
. a Col & Lumiir  A Control          I         8         41
4 x 10 q.   Cable                    7         49         6
.4 x 6 q.mCabe                       1          7         9
Ki Oak                               0          8         8
Subtotal Stresetllghtng               14         9t       100
TeI4c_nunlcation
Publie Coll oxm                      8         21        24
Rehbt I ItAton                       0          2         2
Sabtotal 'Tleaemunicatonw              8         25        86
C@nunity Foci ItI..
lispsnry                             2          6         4
PCl le Post                          4          9         it
O%n Speo                             1          8         4
Subtotal Camuity Factllties            7         17        24
Off-site Infrstructure
Eleeltricity                         4         24        28
Lan  -Ad Compeetlon
Land - Counity Feelitie.             I          0 
Coepenstion - Ce. Facilitle         27          0        27
Subtotal Lnd a  Compeation            a8          0 o
Dslan an Supervision                  148        10       1S
Mokola Total _su  coot               Us       1,1        1,746
Physical Contl_iscles               76        170       262
Prub Cootingencies                  184      1i6         290
Maklolm Total Cot                    77       1,618     2,23
v-TlU
Access
Road Rhabilitatio                    1          1        44
Distributor Rlod W 7.8               17        40        a
Acce sRod Ty    W 4                 JC         41        llC
Ace_m  Rso TadT IeVs                 1s        8           o0
Footpth Typw 2 AC                    6         18         19
Footpth Typ W 1 Sp                  1C          5        51
Subtotal Acces                        101       286        8S
Draina"
Stom Seser                           44       106        147
Ope Channl Type Lined                79       1         2864
Opon Channe  Typ Lined                1         2         2
Open Chanl Typ Lined                 5         12        is
Open Channel Earth                    1         2         2
Culvert.  Pipe                        1         2         8
Cuulverts ox                         9         20         29
Subtotal  rainaW                     .140       827       467
Witr Supply
200 m dim. PipelInes                 14        57 
160_ dim. Pipl In" 15                         00        76
l0    dil. PipelInes                 11        44        a
Subtotal Mote, Supply                 40         S0O       201
Sanltation
Pub le Tol lets VIP (20plaes)        27        St         90



- 63 -                                  Annex 2-5
Page 4 of 8
TOTAL
cowa N                     LOCAL    rMI        TOTAL
*    ~~~~US  '000)
Electric Supply
N0 Kvy Trantorm  S/S                12         73        00
11 Kv & 415 v C.blnW OdH Liro        4         23        82
41S v * Pha  SS ly                   7         44        s0
ebabl  lttlon                       2         11        12
Subtotal Electricity Por Supply       24        11        1i6
Streel  ight ng
.S a Col & 2 Lminnire Ca1i.          1          I        10
.S a tol A12 w L&miire C.l.          I         10        11
.6   Col A 12   L.iniru Cowl.        2         12        18
4 xlOq.mCable                        1          7         3
4 x 6 sq.m Cbl                       7         46         2
Ktooko                               0          8         I
Subbotal Sbreatlighting               1          C         9
Teleo_4nncatlosw
Public Call BoK                      4         29        U
Aerial Cable IPole                   2         18        1s
R.i  I ltation                       0          a         1
Subtotal Talcoenunicatlons             7         46        52
Ceunity Folit lties
Diepeary                             2          6         I
Poe Office                           8          7        10
Coinaty Center                       i          4         6
Open Spce                                                is 11  U
Subbotal Comunity Fociltte            12         26        41
Off-site Infrastructure
Electriecty                          18        14        24
New Serviced Plote (100)            sO         82        62
SubtotAl Off-ait. Infrestructuro      48         47        90
La  and Compensation
Land                                12          0        14
Building Cc.pestion                 as          0        6O
SubtteI Lend and BulIdinp             s0          0        s0
Delgn and Supervislon                 140        1        15
Yastu Total Bow Cost                 621      1,167     1,796
Physical ContingsCies                a        174       2
Pric Contingencis                  146       164       800
Y_tu Total Coot                      61       1,496     2,82
Accesee
Distributor RoW   7.8                25        59        64
Acmom    d Type I W 4                U        119        170
Acces ROad Type 2 W                  12        29        41
Footpath Type  2 C6                            14        20
Footpath Typl   SD                  1n         40        5
Footpth Type W 2 SD                  2          4         5
Sbtotal Access                        118       28        *87



- 64 -                                   Annex 2-5
Page 5 of 8
TOTAL
cuwmE                       LOCAL   FCMEfN      TOTAL
Drainge
Stor Swer                             u         a         11l
Open Channel Typ Line                94        219        312
Open Channol Typ Line                 6         is         19
Open Channel Earth                     1         2          8
Culverts Pipe                         2          5          s
Culverts Box                          1         34         40
Subtotal Orainms                      in2        au5        so
bOtr Supply
20  _ dim. PipolimI                  27        100        136
160 _ dim. PIpollr                   22         s         1Oo
loo m  dim. Pipellnm                1i          61         70
Boostr Pusp Station                   18         U         66
Subtotal ater Supply                   77                   866
Sanitation
Public Tolots VIP (20 place)          27        a          90
Electric Supply
500 Kva Transformer S/S               10        65         76
i1 Kv A 41 v Cebled O/H Line         1         1          21
415 v l    Phae Supply                9         a9         67
Rhab I litation                        1         7          9
Subtotal Electwicity Poer Supply       22        149        171
Streetl ightino
8 a Col & 25   Lminelre Cool.         2         1C         17
*m Col a 12s  Lainal.o Cowpl.         1         C          6
a * Col &  125s Lainnre Cowl.         2         16         19
4 x o q.m Cabl                        1          9         10
4 x 6 q.m Coble                       s         58         61
Klesk                                 0          *          t
Subtotal Streeblightiql                 15       100        115
Teleconications
Public Coll oxes                                28         26
Aerial CsblA&Pole                     4         24         27
Ancillary Works                       0          8          8
Subtotal Telecmunications               7         50         57
C.umity Fcl I ltie
Nleeth Clinic                          I        19         25
Pos Office                             3         7         10
Fir. Statlon                          6         14         20
Ope Spec                              2          4          6
SubtotAl Comunity Fcil Iltl             19        48         62
Off-.lit   fratructre
Electriclty                           4         24         29
New Serviced Plots (25)               21        48         as
Subtoal Off-aits Infreetructur.        24,        72         96
Lnd nd  Coepeastion
Lend                                  11         0         11
Sol dino Cospeatlan                 101         0        101
Subtotal Land and Buldidln             11U         0        11*



- 65 -                                   Annex 2-5
Page 6 of 8
TOTAL
~PC OWT                     LOCAL   FEIOM       TOTAL
Ooign aN  Supervison                              19        1N
Aa   Total _s. Cost                   m        1,424      2,162
Physical Continogmloie                07       213        we5
Prlc Contlng.ncie                   18       16i        3
Agug Total Cot                      1,006      1,2        2,6
Community Iq.vemut Pregme  ase        1,900      3,m        5,702
P"ial Contingmn--es                   2s         Su         Si
Price contingnlel                     446        490        947
Commnity Inrovmn Pegre Total    2,64             4,U4       7,46
D4FRASICTWE MM. (Me"N USE COST    6,491    22,144    26,
PHYSICAL CITIOSICIE                                 2,996      3',m2
PRICE CWTDMEDCNS                         1,54       2,6"       4,408
DIFR5IC1iu1E IMM. (NaD    TOTAL COST   6,94          27,9S9   #,941
B. PRVIRITY Tooas N W    IAAa
Future Subpjects                      ,1        1,         17,125
PRIMIY        BA SE COST                   3,1       1          17,15,
PHYSICAL C%NTINEBCIES                      3        1,675      2,0"
PRICE C ICNIES                              On      1,930      2,739
PRIORlIY TOlI TOTAL COST                   4,87      17,12    21,910
C. REVEIS S CEMT A DIST.3121114T.
PrJect Coor4latilon - PCU Support
Long an short-t.rm T.A.                84       1i6         109
Tralning                               15         so         74
Public Edtuclon an Iomation             1I                   a5
V,.l.z aN  supot                        3         06         s6
Subtotl Proj. Coord. - PC. Support       70        26         UT
Mir. of Finn   i Ea. Planning
Civil I Servi  Training Sool
Ewlpmt                                0          * 
Vehicle                                1        28         25
internal 1 venu_
Tech. Asiste                         27        109         S
Trainlng                              U         14         46
quwipme"t                              2        8          3
Vehieles                               8       249        262
Subte. Vin.of FlnacA&gc.Plang            77        4U         510
epobrtm   of Ls1 Gormot 0W)
Loc..O.. Cooed. ad Moaltoring
Rating Coordination an Training       so      1i7         197
LA Developmen Assetda                 20        so        128
EuIpwIt an Vehiles                    8        so         19
Subtotal Deort,t of Locl Goent           67        s12        S7s



- 66 -                                    Annex 2-5
Page 7 of 8
TOTAL
0w WN                       LOCl.   P03206       TOTAL
QJS6 '000)
Iada4 Mnicipel Gevsrnmnt (IU)
Operet. A Admn. Jmprv. (twinnnlg)
Len-te T.A.                            80       196        226
Short-term T.A.                        11         41        96
Training                               U         146       182
Equipwat                               l0        as         76
Rating aN Valuation
Velutian (hdm)                        a17       212        no
T.A.                                   22         6         106
Tralning (Lol)                         80         1s        48
Equip"                                  2         47        40
Vieles                                 6        11s         11t
Ci llotian
T.A.                                   0          40        46
Training                                I         8          1i
Equipsant                               I         so        a5
Vehicles                                5         *4        91
Subtotal lhadm  Munleipeal 0v.QUM)        416      1,18       1,60
Min-.o  LandA,Hoemng A Surv.(MUH)
Multi-urpows L.I.S.
Fasibililty Pilot Study                1s        11       1m7
Data V%wtilealton/Aupantatlon          46        162        226
Mpwing (badn)                         n       1,5m        1,422
T.A.                                   27       176        205
TrainInog                             1i          9        114
Equipmnt NW Settwar.                   14       28         277
Vehliles                                1        20         80
Twn Planing Division
Plnng. oglilat.4& Pect. Study          1         a1          62
T.A. (Flaning Ceerdintion)             22         67       106
Stnoatur A Invatmw t Plans             a        286        29
Subtotal Min.Ld.W. ,NIngkburv. (IlS)      26       2,610      2,696
Environnntsl Preotation Commiasion (EPC)
Storm Drainae an  Flood Control
Minetanne Assiatarns                    4        17S       219
Solid Wast Mament
Op0 1ation  Awl sisoo                  72       480        In
Traliin                                21         a         106
P lob SudiRey/Cempt/Tst               84        1a6        10
E&Wwirmndtal Management
T.A.                                   16        119        IU
twipme   (Educ.)                        2        42         44
Vabielas                                1         24         s0
Sebtel Env.Pratactn.Cminisn.(EPC)         1#       1,064      1,256
ministr of Works sow Trop.(Wr)
Trat lc en Transport UIkit
T.A.                                   80        120        IS0
Trn ort Plaming Study                  11        54          a
Highways (Maintanano)
Maintnaos T.A.                                   146        162
MainbRAnat Study                       16         77         U
Subtotal Min. Wor* and Trnep.(ON)          Is          7        490
WONB  WIC.& DMT.SllSlti. MLE  COST    1,278             6,217      7,490
PIM .>L CtonD 127  '                                    22         746
RiCE  wWIEc'                                 24         501        747
E1G  nWC.& DT.SIh.TOTAL CT    1647                      7,34       6,97



.-- |~             0                    
I |Ig        'hi'8ss  II
Cx
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
c o



- 6d-                Annex 3-1
Page 1 o-f--I
;§  g!gt|  iglX|g^       ''4"' '4^^#^-^^  '4   3S1
a *- a   a  -  I at
]~~~~~~~~~~*** .41 -tl    .4     4'
§~~       E I   IfifX*#l    1Z
4. |g^c-o-.X
i101it }1SSi2SS{22 js22:sfi |~~
b    sI.    I           iit"   I.              Jj^i
lN    j   l'II       j        a}j 
I  dle    ij'49}        113RI I}     z



Annex 3-2
-69-                                   Page l oft 
NI'IA
OTO STATE USM4 POJECT (IDF 11)
Disburpinnt Schedule v/
OMXe_ Elh II on
Csalstlv. Olebummte
(16 mllieo)
quartr      Apraisl           App.. Estimat
Ending      Etimat 
FY90
HEad,         0.0                0.01
June          0.0                0.05
FY91
Setemb        0.4                0.81
Deember       1.0                2.05
Moreb         2.8                4.63
June          6.0               10.05
FY92
September     6.5               17.05
0ecoer       12.2               24.4X
Hbach        16.4               80.8
June         13.0               87.21
FY98
Septeer    21.3                 48.6
Deco.r       24.8               49.X
Meadr        27.8               55.61
Jwu          80.6               61.21
FY94
September    88.2               66.41
December     85.                71.6X
March        U.1                76.11
June         40.1               60.1U
FY66
September    42.1               64.131
December     48.6               a?. U3
March        44.8               99.51
June         48.0               91.1K
FY66
September    47.2               94.11
December     4.2                66.81
March        49.2               $0.0
June         60.0              100.05
Leo  dtecwtIvnm  Is tareaind In Hoe ouer 160



NIGEIWA
OYO STATE URBAN PROJECT
mpI.m*nta&Uon Arrang.ments
f--&ED-F  ----- GoWEIIT
I  Pfl    o-j-         I             C
~-[ 
caiveN1FcaS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _{  I AW
Lxa l~~~~ R-X"tua                                        rH
I.
rf k*E0  R- fe  hbl V_ lt                                                                                          V inS&E.MO   *dPM   1L(I-ophw   tLclGww
LTE                                                                                                              -   L   
*CN  CoimddSnky bqof amuenle                               - apig&       n  of andsg. ftfouod CniU way
*  AovmiF  E. Wtia of e     *  Phyumv  pSIAU-S *  So|bsS W..SO boAul
--   ClloalIS            *  11S          b*   C                I          *  Enavv    _Iinui   anoemn
.*  h1ui48Mbnu.o                £ RtegeWmm
*  bhIaaukuclSwOHab
{FfI- Fed h^b~y i Intance £ Es.unc   0      1doimn  (JLG  - D.at tn ci Loca Gommu
ICUNI - CeaIr Bnk0 olhia                             (RLI  -   oLadst. hual * &g, 
(FUWIS) - fed.ka  y  OS wwk £ liui                      EJoaC  -    |agg.fI   Pioloclio Couag
5S a -Po         I -amdncwd bIaln                   4UA) - SUG0 &AFWM             nl
Ova-     State kbu.VtI oiIf sat § -& Ec iaa uLm       - Lal -
W



- 71 -
z'-qt 34*
OYO STATE U"DUMJICT
aItlewtation Schdule
90  *i  92  93  04  95  W
A.  Rnfreetitu tehab. (thada:)                        :
*    sWs Osiaesa^ ri1  Canree             *   :    :   :   :.        
O nir, Chor  l;oetio                .:OWT:ACCC:CCCC:CCCC:CCCC:CC
0eels lRe ZeIli tati                      : CCC:CCCC:CCCC:CCCC;CCCC:
b ;"tenanq. £qu; _.t                 :     OOTAM:1E:
Solid Wa"*  Ia      &                  :   :        :     : :   : :
Civil worts                         :oot:ACCC:CCCC:CCCC:
Iqusma~t                               :OOTA:E11:    :
IOvif$nM_tol  ehabillitation                : DOOTAC:CCCC:CCCC:
Comunity Ipoevment Proga               :   :   :      :
Mekele                              :OOTA:CCCC:CCCC:CC  :
YTitU                                : D00:CTACC:CCCC:CCCC    :
Aguge                                : 00:OTAC:CCCC:CCCC:
:         :        :     :      :  
O. Priority Tons Subsejeeta                      :0000:TTAA:CCCC:CCCC:CCCC:CC
Utile   Vauaton: D: TA: KU: M:    : 
-  t x rf. Ab o AdorCi*ft. Supporth|   :   :   :'   : :         : :
=__   _  ____________ Mapping______      .                                C ::   :   :   :
.evenue  a ahacat.e A                       .ista  S: I.ggm: %   :   :    :
3*b;^           . e t.…"..e            * studies:    :          :
TI enwt. P   Anln. Sudey                 UEEE:KA:IIU:1111:B1  : :
tIba  S tructure Plan                  :    .151E:5£:      :    :    : :
Ibda  happin  (US)                     :  0:00? :41:11:         :    :    :
P?C Op. * Moint. Ao;ieanceo            :Eoo£:t£EE:EEoE:tEE£:    :    :    :
Envhonamn"tal Pilot Studio             :         :1511:EE:      : 
Tigngp.,t Plgn"ing Study                    :     1: 11E:1            
Maintenance Study                           :EEE:E:        : 
0. FMU Suoport
Training T *:    :   : 11: gm: a
Project Prparotion Studie             :    : E:E1EE:EEUE: E* 
A-AA  Awerj
CCCC  Construct ie
000 0  Oin
g£1  Execution
TM YToder Call



- 72 -                           Annex 3-5
Page 1 of 3
FEDnRAL IU3LIC Of mIGnlIA
OO STATE URA  PROJT (IDF II)
OYO STATE UVltOIWKNTAL PMOTRCTION COMM4SSION
Sch dulo of Functians and Obiectives
(1)  Responsibility for forulating and enforcing policios, sta'utory
rules and regulations on waste collection and disposal general
nvironme ntal protection, control and rogulation of the ecological
system and all activities islatod thereto.
(2) Oo-ordinating the activities of all agencies in Oyo State connected
with environmental and ecological matters.
(3) Conducts public enlightenment campaigns and disseminates vital
information on environmentL%l and ecological matters.
(4) Randers advisory services and support to all Local Governments in the
State in areas of flood control, solid waste management, ecological
and sanitation matters.
(5)  Responsibility for measures to guarantee consistent effectiveness of
environmntal structures throughout the state for flood control,
solid waste collection and disposal, and general sanitation.
(6) Preparation of master plan for drainage, solid and liquid wastes, and
general aesthetics.
(7) Monitoring of sources of toxic pollution in air, land and water and
offering of necessary advice to industrial establishments.
(8) To mobilize the inhabitants of all areas in the State for effective
observance of environmental rules and guidelines for purpose of
healthy and safe environment.
(9) To initiate measures to ensure pollution-free air. land and water
throughout the State including any other steps to obviate, mitigate
or elaimnate environmental discomfort to individuals or groups, or
danger to lives and properties.
(10) To carry out ad$inistrative. supervision and establishment duties
with a view to ensuring good financial msnagement and administration
of the Commission in line with Government policies.



OOSTATE L  A    RJC
OYO STATE ENVIRONM ENA PTECION COMISSION
ORGANIZATION STRUCTUR
SUL
I~~~~CN
MAN
- ALFaSe m6 SMm   nS
: - P-C l
Cm_d wamm  £ ftm. Bdmm.
L .                ___  s^
G~     "r                                     I _uhh I .1    .
- 0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Elcg*; P_f                                    IEO_*_ a  . a" _ur
sk~~ lboamft         gwaiounidm               fMmcw4amm               *'pmml, A e V               AWMkSU
-I.a C e~1                  EOVUC - -  0_W UlUda4  *s           1wd           -e.  f&                            Cc*
-  P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a C~ickgM'z21 s     
4   _11  & _              - 0b_ de1_ Cb0_*C           &mm. meR       _             _ ms  wd
-iWB    Ic                  EvmUiS  PIuu.-                 * c._        r      m       ,,.-,,,,m_ * _ua,. 
_~m                        Op_ _ olUW.US.       d SSl         _     me                    "_ £_k4lsfL
II*LY ~   ~     ~    o~mMS.i ai MwdO.          Tiiu 9   Wa_m        _        _* *           
N_.poO  C lh_ 1 01 01 Ud  kU                                             X
GovoW           ~~~~mww       o b &aim       S.uCi  d %aId.
Acv.o   a m a.sae                                     T.ewd.c01 bamo              SAM 0106Omose
a   w            _U *#Siva                         Sm
_Imle at                 Fm__ ieclj Pnwaa                              0
Viajs mwwinmmm      pbor ss&W.aa nata
AmAbabiv.M 01 gOIMA



NIGRIA
OYO STATE URBIAN PROJECT
OYO STATE ENVRONMENTAL PROTECTIO COMSSION
Key Staff Postons
RAm.c 8"olAm4s AM                              4A
meCM1 FaU                                   -LIFEm AIPO"  m
GMCT   osUTom                           niT rai    1cCWA
Ft 000 me  &Me V"IIIE~~EC 01C                                        ciecvo
MANA(hEUEv4T  MAJIEPA                          & ~~~~~~ASq'IANI-
___ --    DCTOH                                                                              Vin~~acc"  weonDMTO  lftCI4ML
I                          SILAN  a "iS.A_  AI  NL                                   I ANAMULNI4A
cuoAWAG9             ION i3SALe4
I A                                                                 -- BTATAMA6TAblN
__     _ _ _                _ _~ ~~~ ~~_ _ _ _
AbIbIANI            ASSSaAMI             SW2IANT                                     CYON
oftclowamcgI                          DIICTON              amu                  EHNA                 OA5C Afl
[ 7 ~        _   _  _   _       1                                            _    ___L
don      0i&C ION          EN~~~~aw30@ENIFAL      1001.00CM
rc-.   r-. ] r   s   | rs  l



ANNEX 4-1
~ 75          ~           Page'l of 20
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
OYO STATE URBAN PROJECT (IDF II)
ORGANIZATION, FINANCE AND PERFORMANCE OF
PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES (PFIs)
A.   THE FtNANCIAL SECTOR SETTING
1.        Nigeria has a relatively well-developed and diversified
financial sector, comprising the Central Bank and about 89 commercial and
merchant banks (with over 1,833 branches throughout'the country), several
insurance companies, ieveral pension funds and a provident fund, leasing
companies and saving banks, two stock exchanges, three major public
development finance institutions and a public mortgage bank and some twenty
regional development finance companies. Since 1977, foll9wing the
promulgation of the Nigerian Enterprises Promotion Decree, all banking
institutions in tne country are required to be at least 60Z owned by
Nigerians. Host of the leading commercial and merchant banks have
significant foreign minority ownership, ranging from 20 to 40Z.
2.        The Central Bank embodiea the monetary authority in the country
and as such, is the lender of last resort to the banking system. It also
manages foreign exchange reserves and pay*ents.  Commercial Banks
predominate in the financial system in terms of total asset holdings,
accounting ior about 74 perceat of assets held between commercial and
merchant banks. Merchant banks, however, have been gaining very rapidly
both in terms of numbers of banks and of total assets. Merchant banks
concentrate exclusively on corporate and institutional clients and serve a
role as wholesale banks while providing a wide range of investment and
commercial banking services.
3.        Despite this relatively sophisticated institutional framework, a
high degree of Governmeit regulation and control has in the past retarded
the full development of the financial sector and limited its allocative
efficiency.  The result has been the evolution of a relatively rigid and
compartmentalized credit system with limited market determination of the
terms and conditions of financial intermediation. The financial sector has
been subjected to a complex system of controls by the Central Bank of
Nigeri* (CBN) regarding the sectoral allocation of loans and their
maturities, and to low legal limits on nominal interest rates for both
borrowers and savers. In general, as inflation increased, traditional
deposit and lending instruments of the banking sector have been limited by
low nominal interest. rate ceiling which, until recently, did not permit the
adjustments necessary to ensure positive yields in real terms.



-  76  -                      ANNEX 4-1
Page 2 of 20
4.        In October 1986, the CBN began to liberalize the interest rate
policy; time deposits were allowed to be negotiated between banks and
borrowers, the maximum lending rate was increased by two points to 15? and
the differential between preferred and nonpreferred sectors was eliminated.
In August 1987 the Government eliminated all ceiling on lending and deposit
rates, and the discount and treasury bill rates were increased by 4
percentage points from 11Z to 15? and from 10? to 14?, respectively. The
discount rates, however, were reduced in December 1987 by 2.25 percentage
points, to stimulate growth in the economy. While the rate of inflation
was less than 10? in 1987, it was 38.3Z in 1988. This situation continued-
-and even worsened--until mid-1989 when the CBN sharply tightened credit
(see below). The result was a jump in interest rates and a reduction in
inflationary pressures. Indeed, after rising by 35? in the first 6 months
of 3989, prices fell by 9? in the following 4 months. With lending rates
in the 30 percent range and deposit rates in the 20 percent range, real
interest rates are now positive. Late last year the CBN introduced a
treasury bill auction. Interest rates on that market have averaged 17
percent and the discount rate has been set at 18 percent.
5.        The main restriction to the activities of commercial and
merchant banks is now through annual ceilings on the expansion of loans and
advances, and sectoral credit allocations criteria which specify minimum
percentages of the portfolio for certain sectors. The credit ceilings on
the growth of the bank's credit to the private sector was raised from 7.4?
to 12.5Z in January 1988 to assist in stimulating the economy, and was
lowered to 10? in 1989 as a result of an increase in the inflation rate.
For 1990, the aggregate credit ceiling was again increased to 12.5Z but the. -
ceiling now applied to all types of credits, not just loans and advances.
6.        During 1989 the CBN applied a series of stringent measures to
restrict the credit expansion beyond the regulated ceilings. The first
measure taken in May 1989, involved the abolition of offshore guarantees of
Naira-denominated loans. Unless borrowers were able to provide alternative
local guarantees the loans were recalled. The second measure taken in June
1989, invclved the transfer of Government (Federal, State and parastatal)
deposits from the commerciaL and merchant banks to the CBN. The result of
this w."eaare was to pull out over 10? of the total assets of the banking
system (roughly NO billion out of P80 billion) and obviously a higher
percentage of the deposit base. The result was that several banks becamt-
illiquid and have overdrawn by large margins in their CBN accounts. How
many of these banks will become insolvent is still open to question. The
end result was to boost both deposit and lending rates; however, interest
rates are still negative 1/.
7.        Nevertheless, the most impovtant structural problem facing the
banking system is its lack of stability, resulting from the readjustments
taking  'ace in the economy urder the Government's Structural Adjustment
I/   Interest rates on savings account and certificates of deposits now
range from 132 to 20Z and lending rates range from 221 to 28?. Also
Banks are now required to pay interest on current accounts.
J.



- 77 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 3 of 20
Program. As a result, banks are foced with potentially high arrears, and
CBN is not strictly enforcing their power to request additional
provisioning for doubtful loans. In this context, the capital adequacy of
banks is critical. Commercial banks and to a lesser extent merchant banks,
have in the past, been highly leveraged, and there is a need to subject the
banks to stronger regulatory pressure to classify their portfolios
properly, work out their non-performing assets, make up the provision
shortfall, and strengthen their capital base.
B.   BANKS' ORGANIZATION, STAFFING AND PROCEDURES
8.        The five Nigerian merchant banks 21 already selected to
participate in the IDF project would be eligible to participate under the
proposed project. Four of the banks have continued to demonstrate their
financial strength, technical capacity and interest in participation. ICON
has in the past also demonstrated these attributes, but the recent CBN
measures to restrict credit expansion has revealed some weaknesses in
ICON's liquidity management and portfolio. ICON's continued participation
will depend on the outcome of a more detailed assessment of ICON's recent
fiuancial status which is currently underway. Together, these five banks
account for about 702 of the assets held by Merchant Banks in Nigeria, and
three of the above selected banks are associated with prominent
international banks. The ownership, organization and staffing, operations
and procedures of the tanks and their financial structure and performance
are analyzed and described below. In addition, several commercial and
merchant banks have expressed their interest in participating in the
project and will very likely participate once their eligibility is
confirmed 3/. Some preliminary financial information is also included and
a detailed mnalysis of their management, organization and finance is still
underway.
9.        Ownership.  Nigerian banking institutions are required by law to
be at least 602 Nigerian,owned, and the five participating banks conform to
this ruling. In the case of three of the banks (CMB, IMB and NMB) this 602
shareholding has been retained directly by the Federal Government through
the Ministry of Finance Incorporated (MOFI), a wholly-owned subsidiary of
the Federal Ministry of Finance. MOFI, in addition, continues to retain a
202 share holding with NAL. Nigerian parastatals are also figuring
prominently in the ownership structure of the banks, with Nigeria
Industrial Development Bank (NIDB) owning 452 of the shares of ICON, an,d
the National Insurance Corporation of Nigeria (NICON) owning 15Z and 25Z of
ICON and NAL, respectively.
21 HAL, ICON, International (IDM), Continental (CMB), and Nigerian
(NMB) Merchant Banks.
3/ lgigeria International Sank (NIB, a Citicorp affiliate); Grindlays
Merchant Bank, Chartered Bank Ltd. and Merchant Bank of Africa (an
affiliate of Bank of America).



-  78  -                        ANNEX 4-1
Pago 4 of 20
10.       Three of the five banks (NAL, IMB and CMB) have had strong
foreign banking participation. American Express and Credit Lyonnais
together own 28.6? of NAL while First National Bank of Chicago and Chase
Manhattan Overseas Banking own 40Z, respectively, of IMB and CMB. Until
1985, Morgan Guarantee and Baring Brothers tngether held 40t of the shares
in ICON, however, they decided to relinquish these holdings several years
ago.   ICON is still seek5,ig a foreign banking partner, although Morgan and
Baring Brothers continue ,o provide them with correspondent banking
services. NMB is unique among the five banks since it does not have any
direct foreign banking participation, and is not planning to have any in
the near future; however, this does not appear to have limited their
operations.
11.       The active participation of the above mentioned foreign banks in
the ownership and operations of the Nigerian banks has added greatly to the
range and depth of experience, skills and services available, as well as
provided a sense of stability and confidence to the banking sector.
Contrary to what might have been expected because of their importance in
the banking sector and their specific financial business with the
parastatal eaterprises, the banks have been largely free of ¢overnment
intervention in their lending and syndicating operations, as well as in the
management of their portfolios. Merchant banks can now make equity
investment operations, which by regulation is limited to no more than 102
of its capital in a single company. The total of the equity shareholding
cannot exceed 1/3 of the merchant banks capital. In fact, banks compete
intensely among themselvas, for savings, letters of credit, syndications
and borrowers, and with the development banks for long-term projects.
Basically, the difference between merchant and commercial banks consist of
business size. The merchant banks are primarily in wholesale financial
activities (dealing w.th relatively large corporate, parastatal and
Government clients) while the commercial banks also handle retail banking
business, which means providing services to individuals. The merchant
banks operate strictly on the basis of commercial criteria and have
developed the reputation of being among the most profitable, effective and
efficiently run organizations in Nigeria. The following table summarizes
the ownership structure of the five eligible banks selected as PFIs; also
indicated is the size of their assets and staffing. Preliminary data is
also included for Merchant Bank of Africa (MBA) and Nigeria International
Bank (NIB) (a commercial bank); Grindlays Merchant Bank and Chartered Bank
(a merchant bank); their eligibility as PFIs is pending detailed appraisal
of their management, organization, operations and finances.



-  7Q  -                      ANNEX 4-1
Page 5 of 20
TABLE 1
OWNERSHTP STRUCTURE OF THE PFIs
Total
PFI    Year 41  Assets  Staff 5/             Shareholding
(N mil)             Local                 Foreian
NAL     1960   1,504 bi   407         202-MOFI        26Z-American Expr.
252-NICON      102-John Holt Group
10-New        2.61-Credit Lyonnais
Nigeria
Dev. Co.
6.42-NAL Staff
ICON    1974   2,389 a/   604        452-NIDB         352-(Reserved for
15-NICON            Foreign Partner)
5Z-Staff
(Reserved)
iMB     1974   1,868 a/   586        60X-MOFI         402-First National
City Bank/Chicago
CIIB    1975   1,678 a/   661        602-HO0I         402-Chase Manhattan
Overseas Banking
MeD     '.979   1,540 b/   331       60X-MOYI         None (UBA is in turn
40Z-United        owned 402 by Banque
Bank for          Nationale de Paris)
Africa (UBA)
MBA c/  1982      850 a/   N/A       552-private      402 Bank Of America
5X-MOFI
NIB c/  1984   1,604 a/   N/A        602-private      402 Citicorp
Nigerian
Grindlay c/ 1984 339 a/   bb         602-private      402 ANZ Banking
(none more      group
than 52 of
shares)
Chartered c/ 1988 207 a/  N/A        1002-private
(Nov. 1989)               (none more than
5 of shares)
a/   31/12/88
b/   31/03/89
c/   For MBA and NIB, Grindlay and Chartered appraisal is pending and are
not yet PFIs.
4/  Formation Year.
5/  July, 1989  ;



-  80  -                      ANWNX 4-1
Page 6 of 20
12.       Orianization and Staffing.  The five eligible PFIs are all
fairly simIlAr in their organizational structure and staffing, reflecting
the similarities in their operations. They are generally organized into
three main sectors (corporate banking, corporate finance and management
services), within which there are specialized divisions (credit and
marketing, trade and correspondent banking, operations, securities,
corporate affairs, finance and administration, etc). While the reporting
relationships differ somewhat among the banks, the basic organizational
elements are quite similar. The main sectors are usually headed by a
general manager, and the divisions by an assistant general manager. During
the appraisal mission it was confirmed that most of the five PFIs for the
Project start up phase have already organized and are operating Special
Units within their respective Corporate Finance Divisions, and through them
most financial intermediation operations are being handled. The creation
of these Special Units represents an important achievement for both the IDF
Project and for the proposed Project. The selected PFIs' new Units are in
fact development finance windows of the PFIs. At present their main
operation is channelling the World Bank's various lines of credit. Each
Special Unit is headed by a well qualified officer who is directly assisted
by at least three professionals and two support personnel. For these
Units, specialist staff and occasional short-term consultants have been
assigned to manage all the development projects as well as to improve their
capacity to deal with the intricacies of state finances and become familiar
with urban infrastructure sectoral issues. Nevertheless, it is necessary
to strengthen the installed capa;*ty of these Units by biring additional
professionals (as required) witha arckground in areas related to the sector
objectives, since there is a :kck of personnel with training in this area.
It is expected that under the Project's technical assistance component the
PFIs would be assisted in strengthening their technical skill in
subprojects preparation, evaluation and supervision. For specific
t.;echnical aspects of the project, consultants would be hired, as needed.
The Special Units' functions cover a wide range of activities starting from
promotion and advisory services to subproject preparation, evaluation, and
supervision. The Special Units will be assisted by other PFIs' divisions
particularly by the Marketing And Credit Divisions.
13.       Currently, ICON is in the process of making some adjustments to
its institutional framework, and the new scheme will be presented to its
Board of Directors in the near future for approval. The following table
presents the geographic distribution of the PFI's branchest
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-  81  -                      ANNEX 4-1
Page 7 of 20
TABLE 2
SELECTED PFIs BRANCHES 6/
NAL      ICON     IMB         CONTINENTAL    NMB
Branchess  Kaduna     Kaduna       Kano           Kaduna
Kano     Kano     Kano         Joe           P-Harcourt
Owerri   Calabar  P-Harcourt  Kaduna
Ibadan   Benin    Aba          Port Harcourt
Abuja                Onitsha
Veadquart: Lagos    Lagos      Lagos      Lagos          Lagos
Total:       5         6         6          6              3
14.       The decisions for subproject financing approvals are centralized
in Lagos Headquarters, but for subproject preparation and supervision
activities the Special Units would be supported by the above 20 branch
offices, which would also carry out initial promotional activities. The
three largest banks average just over 600 staff. The professional staff in
all the banks are strong in financial and accounting skills but lack many
of the technical skills that would be directly relevant to urban
infrastructure subproject lend'ng. In spite of this significant gap, the
general caliber of the staff is impressive, particularly at the middle and
senior management levels (project officer, assistant manager and upwards).
Typical of the banks as a group, more than half of staff is at the level of
deputy manager and above possessing masters degrees or equivalent in
finance, accounting or marketing, and the rest possessing bachelor's of
equivalent degrees in disciplines relevant to banking.
15.       Some banks are clearly stronger than others in specific subject
areas, however, none is considered significantly better organized or more
strongly staffed than the others. In general, they are all well run and
capably staffed. The typical middle and senior level managers have had 10
years experience in the banking sector.   As a result of the rapid
proliferation of banks in the past two years, all PFIs have lost some high
quality staff to newly established banks, but have managed to fill the
vacancies left from within without too much difficulty, as many competent
staff remains. Nevertheless, the staffing status will need to be closely
monitored. In the future some of the newly established institutions may be
considered as future PFle given the tested management some have recruited.
16.       Operations and Procedures.  While the banks offer a wide range
of services to their clients, the Bank appraisal mission focussed most
specifically on syndications and project lending, these areas being most
relevant to the project. The operations and procedures of the banks are,
again, quite similar. In general, they attempt to spread their risks by
6/ At June, 1989



-  82  -                      ANNEX 4-1
Page 8 of 20
syndicating their larger loans.  But given both the size of the PFIs  and
the average cost of the proposed priority towns subprojects ($1-2.5
million), the syndicating of loans may not be necessary. The procedures
for loan syndication are well established, regulated and supervised by CBN.
Though not regulated by CBN, the procedures for project lending and
supervision are fairly standardized, vell developod and documented in the
operations manuals of each of the banks.
17.       The banks have the capacity to evaluate as well as to advise on
the technical and financial viability of the projects, and in most cases
project lending involves both operations. Existing project lending is
concentrated in the manufacturing (46.3Z average for the five PFIs) the
real estate and construction (1OS average) and more recently the
agriculture, forestry and fishing (14Z average) sectors. Two types of
projects ar, ypical. In the usual industrial project the banks rely on
the participation of a strong technical partner, and the operational
procedures focus on the financial viability of the project. This is
especially the case where proprietary technology is being provided by the
technical partner. In most such cases, however, the bank spot-checks
equipment specifications and prices, and seeks comparisons with similar
projects. The experience of foreign banking partners has proven
particularly helpful in this regard as international price comparisons can
be quickly and easily checked by telex with foreign branch offices and
corporate headquarters. In cases where the technical partner is found to
be weak, the banks assist the client to identify a suitable technical
partner or to retain appropriate consultants.
I8.       In both of the above cases, banks are willing to supply
consulting advice in the areas of marketing and finance--the areas in which
they are well \ndowed with staff resources. Most clients require advice
and assistance with project preparation, and the banks have offered this
consulting service, seeing it as a growing and lucrative source of revenue.
Over the years, particular bank officers have developed a familiarity with
certain sectors and types of projects and this has, to some extent,
compensated for the lack of engineering expertise.
19.       Because of the variability of the quality of project preparation
done by the banks' clients and the consequent variability in the extent of
consulting assistance required, it is difficult to generalize about the
loan appraisal period. However, where adequate preparatory work has been
uadertaken by the client, the technical partner is strong and legal and
collateral requirements are not overly complex, loan appraisal and
processing can be completed within a six month period. The typical
appraisal consists of thorough (and standardized) analyses of recent and
projected performance based on assessments of balance sheets, income
statements and cash flow projections. Audited financial statements for the
past three years of operation are normally required. Based on the above, a
standardized set of ratios is derived, assessing project profitability,
liquidity, asset utilization, capital structure and degree of risk. These
quantitative indicators are supplemented by qualitative evalaations of
company history, management capability, stability and the probabilities of
successful project implementation. in addition, clients are required to



-  83  -                     ANNEX 4-1
Page 9 of 20
demonstrate the capacity to adequately (and quite conservatively)
capitalize projects from their own resources, often in the form of cash
equity to be deposited with the banks on the approval of a loan.
20.       Project assessment would usually be the responsibility of a
particular project officer who is responsible for undertaking the necessary
financial and managerial analyses, ensuring that sound and appropriate
technical advice has been obtained by the client, and that the project is
feasible. On completion of this assessment, a report is submitted, through
a senior manager, to a loan committee comprising the senior officers of the
bank. This loan committee recommends to the managing director that a
particular loan be approved or otherwise disposed of. Managing Directors
are allowed discretionary approval limits which vary from bank to bank.
Above these limits, approval has to be sought from a loan committee of the
board and, in special cases, by the board itself. Once approval is given
to a particular project, the client is informed in writing, and all the
legal and financial conditions attendant on approval are stated. Loan
disbursement is then contingent on the fulfillment of these conditions,
including, inter alia, the payment of commitment fees, the pledging of
equity and collateral, and gu*rantees of performance. Payments would
normally be made only against engineer's or architect's certification.
21.       In general, all the banks adhere to prudent and well documented
procedures; in most cases, project supervision goes well beyond the simple
monitoring of payments. The banks consider it not only normal but
essential that their project officers should attend site meetin s during
the construction stages of projects, and develop a firm grasp of the
critical project activities and the progress of the project as a whole.
22.       The five PFIs have the basic capability to appraise and
supervise state urban infrastructure subprojects, provided that special
unit staff are supported by consultancy services as required to cover the
technical aspects of the subprojects to be financed. The banks have
considerable experience in disbursing against appropriate documentation and
in field supervision of industrial projects. However, there are two
important project objectives which go beyond the narrow requirements of a
typical bank project, namely:
(a)  reviewing the creditworthiness of the State Governments to
ensure repayment of the subloans, and helping the Statqs, to the
eztent possible, improve their creditworthiness; and aisessing
and monitoring the creditworthiness of State Governments; and
(b) helping the States and Local Governments prepare infrastructure
projects, develop a capacity for project execution and improve
their revenue bases--in particular, substantially improving cost
recovery to make infrastructure services self-financing---and
generally putting State's infrastructure on a sounder financial,
technical and institutional footing.
23.       These are important project objectivas on -which the Federal
Government of Nigeria and the World Bank are in agreement, but which go
.A



-  84  -                     ANNEX 4-1
Page 10 of 20
beyond the normal business practices of the local banks. There are no
existing institutions in Nigeria dealing effectively with these complex
questions. The technical assistance and training to be provided under the
project will address these larger objectives. The combination of technical
assistance directly to the States, training of PFI staff to enhance their
capabilities, competition among PFIs for State subprojects and the States'
self-interest in improving their creditworthiness should help to achieve
these objectives.
C.   FINANCIAL STRUCTURE OF THE PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES
(PFIs)
24.       The tables accompanying this Annex present the past audited
financial statements, sammary financial ratios and structure and quality of
the portfolio of the five PFIs which have so far been classified as
eligible to participate in the on-going IDF and proposed Oyo Urban Project.
Total assets of the five banks have grown at an average annual rate of 45Z
over the past eight years. The fastest growth took place in the 1981-1982
period, during which the banks grew at an unprecedented annual rate of 782.
During the 1986-1988 period, the PFIs grew at an annual rate of 45Z;
however, in 1988, when restraints on credit growth were applied by the
Government (para 4), growth dropped to 21Z.
25.       The f  ancial structure of the merchant banks is characterized
by relatively ,..rt-term deposits (less than one year), with little medium
and long-term debt (over five years). In general, cash, receivables,
short-term loans and advances, and other short-term assets accounted for
well over 601 of total assets during 1984-1988. While limiting earnings,
these liquid assets have assisted the banks in reducing their exposure
during economic downturns. Given that an average of 40Z of their portfolio
is in loans with maturities of over three years, and given that over three-
fourths of their total resources are represented by short term liabilities,
this leads to a significant amount of term-transformation,7/ and liquidity
problems can materialize to the extent that a sudden withdrawal of deposits
do not flow back quickly into the banking s8stem. Precisely such a
situation took place during June and July 1989 with the sudden withdrawal
of all government deposits. Banks with significant percentage of
gbvernment deposits hove had to rely on overdrafts from the,NDIC and CBN as
a safety net. The survival of some of the Banks is still questionable and
is being monitored closely.
7/   Term transformation, which involves using short-term deposits for
medium to long term lending, is a normal banking practice, but poses
two main .Atsks; (a) the possibility that interest rates paid by the
banks for t.. ir short-term deposits could increase over the interest
rate charged % long-term loans outstanding, thereby causing a loss
to the baniks; a. i (b) the possibility of illiquidirt  from deposit
withdrawals.



-  85  -                          ANNEX 4-1
Page 11 of 20
26.        Caoitalization. As shown below, historically, the PFIn have
maintained debt/equity ratios of roughly 22:1, which is on the high side
for a medium to long-term lending institution.   As also shown below, with
the exception of ICON, banks have already taken some steps to reduce their
debt/equity ratios; however, the needed adjustments would be addressed
under a proposed financial sector operation. In addition, the quality of
the portfolio off the PMBs would be monitored during the implementation of
the project, with the support of CBN (para. 31).
TABLE 8
DQBy    T RATIOS
Chrr-   Grlnd-
Fiscal Year   NAL g/  ICON   IMS     CMB    NO B/  NIL      MBA k torod      loye kI
1981          -       21.4   21.2    22.8   -       -
1962          15.6    21.2   28.7    27.9  14.7    -         -
1983          18.5    29.9   25.8    82.4  25.5    -         N/A
1984          19.4    19.5   23.9    81.8   25.9    -        N/A
1985          17.2    2090   21.1    2090   22.4    19.6    27.0              15.7
1986          18.4    26.0   20.1    22.1   20.2    33.2    42.9              86.
1987          29.2    28.2   26.2    25.6  26.6    28.6    50.0               8.81
1988          12.6    29.6   20.8    17.8   19.3    16.4    84.0              26.9
1989           6.0    -      -       -      1.      -        -        6.8     16.0
Average       16.5    25.8   23.4    24.9   21.5    28.2    45.9      0.9
*/ For NAL and7NWB the fiscal year (FY) ends in March. For Grlndlaio FY ends In Septmber. For all
other banks the FY is tho smem as the calendar year.
b/ NIB, MBA, Chartered and Orindiays are not yot eligible to partielpate sine, detailed appraisal of
their organization/finances has not yet ben completed.
27.        Profitability.  The profitability of the PFI is adequate.  The
nominal after tax rates of return on average equity of the five PFI are
shown below:
TABLE 4
AFTER-TAX RETURNF ON EQUITY
PFIs
Char-  Grind-   Price
Fiscal Year WAL     ICON   ImB    CUs   NMB    NIB    MSA  tored  lags       Index
1981        -       86.1   85.1   35.5   -      -      -                     20.6
1982        40.9    24.6   41.9   89.8   26.9   -      -                      7.7
1963        22.4    19.4   81.8   88.1   18.1   -      n/a                   28.2
1984        81.9   24.8   89.7   28.3   29.9   -       n/a                   39.6
1986        46.0    25.0   81.2   89.5   81.7   10.0   16.9                   5.3
1986        86.6    44.8   41.6   89.5   86.6 127.0   40.8           51.6     5.4
1987        81.7    48.6   56.0   86.2   49.4 167.6   79.4          55.9    10.0
1966        96.0/  87.5   88.2   61.5   6.8  120.0   90.9           64.6    87.9
1989       64.6&/   -      -             45.4   -      -      44.4  48.7
Average     46.6    82.5   89.4  J8.1   88.2   111.9  68.6  44.4  49.0    21.9
s/ Includes extraordinary profit due to revaluation of foreign assets.
28.        In the past, the five PFIs earned very positive real rates oE
return on equity during periods of low inflation, but lost much ground



-  86  -                      ANNEX 4-1
Page 12 of 20
during years of nigher inflation due to the fixed loan margins (caused by
interest rate ceilings) which did not distinguish adequately between real
and nominal profits of financial intermediaries. They were able to
maintain their profitability in spite of these restrictions through
commissions and other charges on loans and through the substantial
interest-free advances placed with banks by importers pending release of
foreign exchange by CBN. Following the liberalization of interest rates in
1987, the PFIs have dramatically improved their real rate of return on
equity. As a percent of average total assets, the grosa spread (interest
income less interest expense) shows narrow margins (1.81 to 3.9Z during the
last year), but when other income is included the margins increase
significantly (4.9Z to 7.02). In gereral, administrative costs expressed
as a percent of average total asb te have been kept in the range of 1.0 to
2.52 which is very reasonable. However, during subsequent reviews of the
PPI's financial situation, a more detailed assessment would need to be made
to determine the degree to which profitability has been overstated due to
underprovision for problem loans and other potential losses.
29.       Portfolio Structure. Quality and Reserves.  In general, the
portfolios of the five PFIs are concentrated in loans of NO.5 million and
more with loans under N100,000 in size comprising less than 5Z of all
lending. Both CMB and NAL have a majority of their portfolios in loans in
excess of N4.0 million which reflects their emphasis on lending to large
corporate names in Nigeria.   As mentioned earlier, the term structure of
the lending is medium term, with loans over three years representing an
average of about 502 of all loans. The significant amount of term
transformation has been encouraged actively by CBN despite the lack of
medium-term sources of funds available to the banks. Unfortunately, this
officially encouraged a mismatched situation which has recently become a
source of vulnerability to the PFIs in particular as a result of the recent
FGN directives (para 6). Loans to Government (State and Federal)
represented a fairly insignificant proportion of the total portfolio,
except for NMB which has about 7? of its portfolio in State Government
loans. Loans to the public sector, including public utilities, in general
are also relatively insignificant.
30.       The real estate and construction portfolios have declined to
10.22 (down from 232 average three years ago), with relative increase in
the agriculture, forestry, and fishing sector to 14.01 (up from 92 average
three years ago) and the general commerce sector to 16.0? (up from 11.22).
31.       Based on available data 8/, it is generally concluded that some
deterioration of the PFIs' portfolio quality has occurred over the past few
years. The recent measures taken by the Government pertaining to
withdrawal of deposits has exacerbated the situation and brought to light
8/ Detail information on arrears over 90 days (principal and interest),
portfolio affected by these arrears, and portfolio affected by
provisions were supplied to ihe Bank on a confidential basis, and are
thus not presented here, but 'have been retained in the project file.



-  87  -                      ANNEX 4-1
Page 13 of 20
some intrinsic weaknesses in the portfolio quality. The provisioning
levels of the PFIs range from 72 to 272 of their gross portfolios. About
122 of the gross portfolio '(up from 92 in 1986) is over 90 days in arrears.
However, there are some differences between PFIs, with ICON clearly showing
a weaker portfolio quality. During negotiations, it was agreed that CBN
would review with the Bank annuallyt (i) the financial performance of the
PFI* with particular reference to their capital adequacy and their
liquidity position; and (ii) where necessary, measures to improve the
financial performance of PFIs, provided that such measures are consistent
with the overall credit and monetary policy objectives of the CBN.
D.     IMPACT OF PROJECT ON PFIS
32.       Projections of balance sheets, income and funds flow statements
for the five PFIs have been carried out. The projections assume the
continued interest rate deregulation through 1995, and a relative
conservative growth rate of 202. Continued interest rate premia on long-
term deposits and long-term lending are expected to slowly alter the
financial structure of the merchant banks; thus, merchant banks would
increasingly play their intended role as providers of medium and long-ternm
funds in the financial system.
33.       The projections incorporate the on-going IDF loan, and the
proposed Oyo Urban Project, and an even distribution of the proposed line
of credit to the priority towns, amongst the PFIs. The projections
indicate that at no time would borrowing from IBRD exceed about 16Z of
outstanding liabilities.
FAILLACE:mvm26



ANNI 4-1
88                                      Page  14 of 20
IPL0919 Ll Pc':s 0ORTOO!M
~0Is'1Eh'A1L         1"3                 IlCL                                  w
.........._ .__ ..._................... ....... ................. ..  ... ..... ........  .............. *  .... ...............   -------
Agatt      2      Amoun      tI      am t    z          Amunt       %      :mouat     '
. ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  _ .  .._.. ........................_........_.  ....... 
OKlWer  :. 19   DecOeMr 31.190   NIeel 31. 19"          OcMr"   191             !arn  1.14el
I.  LOv   R IW ont 1OOO)
. . .         .. . ...          ......
SO and below                         3.0       0.7      7.3       1.6      2.1       0.b     37.8      4.6       :
frgm 10-1100                         4.3       0.6     15.7       3.2      1.9      0.4      20.3      2.5       '.0      1.3
fro  1100-00                       . 35.4      4.3     50.3      10.4     17.0       3.9    101.9      12.4     5.9      ;,5
rome 15004-1.000                    10.5       5.5     69.6      14.4     2.0        6.2     34.4      10.3     t.:      :.7
from 1O.I,00-2.000                  91.1      13.4    16U.1      34.1     19.2      13.0    114.4      13.9    250.4     64. 
from 12,0004.000  21               149.2      20.4     60.0      124      12.?    1.U    194.4       23.        0.0      0.0
avor 14.000                        400.2      54.6    115.9      23.9    223       5L0    266.6        32.5      0.0      0.0
!otal  1/                      732.7    100.0    41.4    t00.0   4$3.9    100.0    320.5    100.0          i5.9    100.)
2., ByrTw
on Call                            154.1      21.0    10.4       26.6      0.0       0.0    162.4      19.1      0.0       0.)
Less thim In.                       40.8       5.6       1.5      0.       0.0       0.0  °    .t       1.5      0.0        .0
3U.-boo.                            20.0       2.7      4.9       1.0      0.0       0.0     43.4  5;            0.0       1.x
be.-12".                             9.2       1.3     34        17.      ".3       22.4    223.3      27.3      :.3 a      .)
lvr-3yr                            259.5      '5.4    7J.5       16.2    125.7      21.4    154.5      19.1    7I'.5       6.
3wr-Swr                             34.7       4.1    103.0      21.2    157.0     35.1    143.0       18.0    322.2     33.5
over -Sr.                          '14.4      :9.1    111.1      22.9     57.3      13.2     69.4       3.  4 2.4         Il.o
torsi  I/                      732.7    100.0    4U.4    100,0    431.    100.0    620.5    100.0    335.9    100.0
.  9  Economic Sector
Iqriculture For yt,, ad Fisbis       9.6      12.2     64        13.3     67.2      15.3     ".7       12.0     65.7      17.)
mining Vu  berrying                  11.4      1.6      1LI       2.1      17.4      4.0      6.1       017     16.1       *.4
lamactwuh                          39".2      S4.5    1.O        t5.2    224.1      51.2    354.1      43.2    171.6      44.5
R"l Estate I Custrtim                49.0      61      5.6       11.t     653       14.9  t 6.6         6*,     42.h      l1.0
Public Utilitie                      0.6       0.0      7.5       1.5    1I.0        2.3      0.0       0.0      1:.2      3.4
semI Comce
Eaerts                            10.i       1.4     3.1        7.6      3.4       0.8    14.0       13.2      7.        1.9
lmts                              77.6      10.6     43.2       B.9     16.2       3.7     4.5       5.,       6.1       1.6
oentstIc                          31.4       4.3     2.7        5.7      9.0       0.0     60.1       7.3      3.0       L:
Tremaeertation I  ouuicatiu         29.2       4.0      15.2      3.1      0.0       0.0     25.9       3.2      13.7      3.6
CreJit and Fimecial Inst.            14.7      2.0      5.7       1.2      0.4       0.1       7.6      0.9      13.1      '.4
enonwnat
Fderal                             0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.9       )l.      0.)
state                              0.0       OA       0.4       0.1      0.0       0.0      0.8       0.1     .5.7       O.?
6enral                               20.2      2.3      32.2       .6      34.4      7.8      12.5      1.5       '.1
totgl  1/                      732.7    100.0    4.4    106.0    43J.9    100,0   r4O.5    100.0    395.4   I'JO.
11  Ain   onCmntral 3UIk of  lzeria's
rNWt on LkOR and AdVuARnCSeCtiom 1612)18.
endier fwui oj wr37F.
.1 For 1   the amout is owr Ut100.000                                               £



5 Itliu,  4fdfl s1511 1X
I                    t~~j~
Ii         - - - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.38@"&         hpoll|  
4""o"          """""    
;so"" .M   o"*"*b e*                 3-J 8
o^Z4SPPe.r        mtoks~I --                  ,
.om.em&&o... ~ ~    wN 
ma..... -gFtO^QS   
0w-*-""NZw    *-b*v;0-0_&N      O .
a'



Cl_;ftsFt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                              _ w                                       11  1" if   t 
04 lS~~~~~~~~9
'ws we Am.0                                             IX.4       UsA       X.2        W.2        Ma        361-      611111
iQ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U.   X1a.4.2                          M-9       no.?      Ift .7                           W 
08_59*t-oAft_                                        3.       0.3   96.9    M.6   2M.    EJ    RM. 40    2.6
Cu"04  _mf                                 17.8       M9        4*.4       40.1      r.15       ms        LUM        S@2
*"e Xb A&NIN U0                                    to§   0.0            9,      as                      0.0      0         35.s
1E11E1L 18                          17b.~~~~~~~~~~~VO2  W.&  41?   J9.4       749.3     M1.9       mI0       1m.t
2. Lidii I ltke oW 1*|t                                   ---,|
Offnift ~  ~        ~        ~        11 sod Tim 3"; t   o6 
,= ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.4                                  2.2   *     .1   . 9            7        . 10.J     U.3
'It Wta  iU il ttz                              26.9       ?4.1     12t.4      13Y.9     30.4       101       1KX        36.4
G_weUSMIititt                               W.4       X2.4   l l?S   411.*           70.       LW*        14L       us
TN   oit       I VW)                               J.         J.        J.         Ji        0J         CS        4.0        0.8
PL. r b L4.  I Mtl                                0.9        J.        9.         0 .0       4.0        J.       43.3      11.3
IwA Lvt umit=Im                                                96  i_0   i            .S   ?             U9         04        MRJZ2 
*  Im LVmL I= fIKw                              179.2     anll       4J        lU.il      748.3    U1J.9       M.1        MA
.COW Lte Ulmltt-V I2ZL2                                        MA.       218        1.4         U9         4.        U4        M
Gorw  listi                                            1.4       1.0        1.0        1.0       1.9        1.6       0.9        0.9
Totl lO      ity.                                     ai.e      ILS        19.4      U72        19.3       29.2       12.8       e.e
ArA      tt Ui;n Tftl An"                             33.0      111          .8    X    .          4  4.1  81I.7   19.3         -7.3
A ,rA&wnLA%                                     42?       49.        4 °9      45.        M.   l     29 9       19.3      22i.i
au imty/2- _I                                      9.7       'J.9       0.7       ll.S       W.3       19.5       28.3       *7.4
_  1 C^I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UA)  25. :.2                          3       73S .5     03.9  t.-1    14M.4            Im.5
i  1   6  *_                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.}   1.  115.0  =.I     2.2        21116     29.2       352.5
^P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. Wi3r9                              12.7       24.0      32.7       41.0       M1.5      A7.a
^p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                            MeA.w I.  294.6     3211       379.8      375.1     383.9      S#i.
-  ad, Afnm                  1        3         u 2 2*   .3          W         30.3      4799       Alsi.0    1113.       W.
DIM SINA1
Di-                                                    ?.6      14.        U1.        IS 9      1?.        19.4       33.1      74.1
CoM Sprw                                               CS         r.S      12.0       24.4     2a.6        3 .0       60.2      43.5
(|u_ In_m                                              8.8       5.4        *.3        9.0       9.ii      12.8       84.9     10z.6
Adminigtat"wmw%   Ven                                  4.8       2.3        5.2        9.7      12.:3      14.2       22 7      32.0
.1_ "i  ~-_                                      *.0       *.0        #.§        0.0       -3 9      -4.2        1.3      t.3.5
isicn 04                                        0.7        0.8        5.3       9.1       10.3       13.3      217       -19.d
Tom                                                    2.6       0.7        4.0        4.9       0.7       V0.1        9.$      14.0
Di; Sit                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~~~~.32  1.32  21  3.2    14 02      13 0       7.1 9    l.
Cr-lSpmS    amS fAT 
ASp i ! q fttve ATA                                   3. 1    3J           3.4        5.2        4.5       3.2   5     .4        2.8
lJini*nCIw~f  m X of ATA                          2.9        0.9        1.4       1.9        1.9        1.3   1    .S        2.a
Pmi       of" AdkrANo 3xt                          40.        24         31.       4110       36 5       3417      9W1.0      3 s
D ;dad a X Yap_  9e Cptal                          24.5       13.2       21.0      30.5       411.6      "4,       46.0       0.e
O;t;dn hp.: iC;o a                               31.@        .  31.7     Y       281.3     33.3       30.2        11.9      9.9
( T*l   W _" % ^*1_.Cb,    W                    14.3       12.4       12.2      12.5       U.O        14.2      10.7       25S.
~~~~~~X A1 er C-0          =         C       bl 9.2 iDJ0            9.4       10.1        9.?       U.4  U 5.7   1 3.i
t     _   " %   A "~~xitL  Peyot               683       4 69       0:3       74°9        .7        S    9      .2  9 9   23 3
~~~~~(3) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.9                       2.1        3.2       5.2        6.8        6.4        6.8       :.3
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gowfer of Noir _  8.3oi ll ian in FM u  Noir  73.8 ai l !'



-*A= OF W*f MI 2'   11 S    A( .ME -X
CkdW               a   l o    _ 11,1)   Page  17 of ZO
- 91  -                             *"1 W
ame 1"on                                                                                                                       I=im  1K
1._
Cdt, bmaIm & s_                                   .1        MJ.    2G.b         M.9      36.1        64         .      1.2
withinIAyUIra)                               3        147:8      226.2     .11.    la.#        1111.9    277.6      £ .9
OUt Sartp-Tail                                                        28.1       111.6     isS       Ma        u.1 17.s
CWVW* Anote                               12.9      3M.1      3111.1    434.      411.4      766.5    23.4      lw.?
Ow wo Mr o40)                                 149.1      3.?       74.1      0.4       1111.1      .       m:t        M.1
*Itm.   *-                         6~~ ~~~~~           ~~~~~~~~.6  6.4  2.4  6415.   32.6        6.1      13.2
6.2       9.91      5.        6.j       3.1       U.S       W.S      =Z.
rd m   s'       fist)                           1.6       2.2       2.2        2.7       2.1       3.6       6.9       19.6
>LUN. 43313                                   27.4      46.6      43.4       111       WS.$      1..9     1.6    23.3
2. Ut; Mt;m VW Swit
V   "M   I2.4¶                                             M.1      MJ        340       371U       93.      16        14P:9
1.5       2.7       2:        3.3       4.1       2L6        4.2       4.9
Oaw Wrbtm Li;Iitit                              61.7     1.1 i     1.3        NS9       1.2       411.0     on.7       M.3
CCwm  LUi I Itim                         MSa        414.7     443.7     43.1         .2      MW7      1.4       53.5
rim                                  ~~~~      ~~~~3.9  3.4  2.2     2.4       6.        0          L          .7
6 .6  6.        .9       6          0.9      96.6
tAta u84s LibI it1a                                4.1       3.4       2.2        2.4       6.2       19.3      M."         J
= C,1ai         i1                                                     146       1.        18. 219              NJ 21.9
Cr&M             ad nmv                            1:1       L.?        7.5       9.6      13.4       3.6      31.611     ma
NA %rth                                   12.5       19.7      fl.5      26.6       3.4       3.L        U.$       40
UI3. LtSUM  ad  M=                           279.4     41.6       43.4    11IJ.9 1.             151.3     Ia        d.3
9.'1
Ounwt Rai*                                           6.O       1J        6.9       6.9        e.9       6.6       6.3       6.3
Totei O;*..ty                                       Z    21.     1 .    26.9       19.5  LS      2!    .0        21.2       2i.6
Ammal n    Tou1_t 0 1.2                                       E.         7?.4   0 .9   U 8.4   n4.9              01.1       41.8
9.6      3.1       17.9      17.7       17.2      19.6      22.4      23.
="rAp   lso /aR Z                                      48,        41.5      429       31.1      46.2       U.1      3M.4
ABp    ity/me  1                                      $1       9.2      U.9        U.        32.3      28.2       9.3        9.4
bp BP      ?_" (111) 2J                                       M.6      46.1       41.7      04.4      628.9     U3.7       M7.4
-vMp 18"                                            MI"31.1    174.6    13.4      2A.4      21 4.S     m1.1      S9.6      72.1
*_eritp w E q                                        X        lO.1       X.8      2DJ0        l.. 33.7            46.4      67.9
A ip Dovws                                          1.1       16.3     31.6       35.9    3I.         41.6       617.7    1.MJ
Amp    ,   acdl IWO        1                       i..       2.3        31.6      3.g       31.7      411.       617.7    1243.7
Aims  CmM,,L.u ad                                  21ut111.11  MY6    427.6       4611.6    10.3       775.7    124.1    M8.8
DM S1rAu34T
ntruiu  Znb                                         19.6      5.6       3J.1       34.6      37.2      C3.2      14.4       M.a
~Ei-um                                       9.4       19.6     23.5       25.3      27.6       40.6      i12.9    11.9
ow SfN_                                              1.2       6.*       12.6       9.3       9.6       13.2      46.4      38.1
OUt  b                                 lT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.1  19.8  10.1  19.8  2J.4     38.S       29.7      51s.1
=in1rgti'  E!q                                       6.9       6.6       U.?       13.3      14.9       18.4      22.8      34.9
OtUr Operting Ei. m                                  2.6       3.9       4.6        4.0       3.6       3.6        8.6      1S.1
Pr>aiat O)                                  421.6     3.6       6.6       1.1        4.3       7.4       6.7       6.8
Tatinin                                ~~~~      ~~~~      ~~~~      ~~~~~4.2  4.5  4.5  4.6  6.4  7.5  06.    19.7
Nt  Profit                                          &.        4.6        4.9       5.6       6.6       14.9      23.5     C4.5
Oiv;                                                1.3       1.6        2.3       2.6       2.6        4.1       4.6       6.3
-                                 __ 9.9
PATMS
fem  5r!daI of ATA                                  6.5        1.7       2.8       1.9        1.7       1.0       3.4       1.3
Wini4bgive CG   a S d ATA                           2.6       2.5        2.6       2.7       2.7        2.        1.7       1.1
o    nm a X d ATA                   *.1                       0.9        6.6       6.*       6.6        6.1       4.9       4.5
Nat Pmfit n X of Aver. t Wwth *3.1                            24.6      19.4      24.3       2.6       44.3      46.6      37.S
OifiW  l  11 Y _m.ad gem Capithl                   1C         12.9      16.4      17.3       18.7      27.3      23.1      :1.4
OiviWdtPaytRotlo M                                 32.5       4C.       R.5       48.4       42.4      27.S      19.7      :f.7
Ot*I lT1-  m a A-..C 1-,I_I     t                13.2      13         2.        U.S       12.2      U.S        13.3   :5.2
Int~~ !a~  ml Avse.QW.w    .t5.6                       7.7        7.6       7.5       7.1       6.9       1.1.      12.
!ai~~ Eim~m S AW.mJhit,Li        lo~I        5.5        7.6       6.6       7.6        7.5       0.3      12.5       15.6
7.7       5.7       6.2       4.-        4.6       3.3       0.3       6.2
_  <.4    6.1        1.9      4.3        4.4       .4 4      4.6       -2.9
V ~A~tin.0flISd adw dl_ dl ip                    a/ FtiN  Phar I t lli; 3T n iam *   .  lsa tit  ia.
fat aMda.'mu'.                                        d    d t^ieu 56 zllhnrir9 ;n 135.



-hd1 92dAm  a of iwd        a)            Page  18 of 20
ciiti;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a a9                                          Mli uZ
Cimif iogii.m                                      no         ur        im        usn       I=         w        Isa
1.          b
gw hiv        FOII                            73.1     13.1       .LI      39.7       43.6      45.6    U112.3    Mr.a
i.o   ,T mi SDVU  V4.                                                                  3.6                m.1 <,   El @ .1
*__n)                                       ¶1        ff1 "     90         1,s       31.2 2    2.8       3.       uz I
G0t  _128.3                                        26.2       =IS      43.1      in..      in.9       13.      1M.2
d  ii; C)                                                    i 9                177      17I*      2172        40       4
TOIML  1S                                     13.2     46.1       W.I      U.6        73.7      967.2    in.2   lM.1
2. ULio I Pila W  Sit;X
cre  ow ro Doits
GIru   VW                                        12M       2KA                 67 4.0    65.9      WS        219.1       3.8
hlvmi" - Sb1.2                                                       1.        2.3       4.        6.1
girt L,temuilitia                               6.9      U5.9      ".2       22.0      34.9       3.7      W.J       Me.,
Gmt LUisb I itim                           l.6     m.s       WA        0.3        I.        OIL$     17.s   U1J.7
TI.  ,, ;: ¢           = pwr1mr                             V.                             6.3 9,@ 13           be
rm  t*Irp.                                         .                   .
uIh   & L         liwa Laiqt 1I.1 SH                                  3.7      rag.4      13.1        A        11        7.6
OthW LiO I MIGNPA                               9.84.0 6.3  9*     2      .3           3.0        MI       6,7
Sa~itaI                                       459        6.5       Os9      28                  25         US       3xi
"a                                         6.O      14.0      23.1      210.6      a.        46.0      du        U.7
VWTL LIUEm  id saw                           is.2      46.1      31.6      d7.$      73.7      96.2    in.2        A.
Cmitn*ft LiattI iti3/                             22.2      2643      3.1  3-6.4           MS.5     34.4      4.4 4A
cre  bbio                                           6.9   o    .8       0.9       0.9        1.0       0.7       0.        8.r
Trug Od4EiWity                                     21.2     23.7       2.3        3.9       Z.1       23.1      2.2       21.3
AaI Crmth in Tobl _b I                            614       131.2      14.0      31        10.7      23.2      3.2        3.1
Gx"fr AumtkNa ft"                                  13.E   U 9.2         17.6      17.4      1I.J      14.2      1.        15.2
A       1 k   - / MTA0                             447.8     a.4       S.3        4J.3      33.4      39.2      3.        29.4
A                                                  156.3     M.3       471.9     W         7M.1      963A                M:1
LwS                                          7.       me .      241.6     23.3      V27.6      3.I          .1     S3.5
A^wv~Esity                                          6.3       U7        17A      23.9       35.2      3.2         .6      76.9
Avarup on'ts                                       13.3      2U.9      33.3      430.7     M.6         7.1    25.3    A1M.3
Amp Oma; mId lamm 1        e                      1611.2    312.      45.3       30.3    W6.3       71.60    124.3    Wn.3
Amp C ' ,LM  md ""14J.3  2 M.                                          44.9  E 49.2        03.2      774.4  126.9    103.S
3ME srAd
Atu  hw.                                            9.4      A.        42.9       U.2       69.6      67.9      13.3    126.
a_v E.ze_                                           6.3       1.7       21.6      31.5      39.6      34.4      4r.4      *2.4
Grm *ad                                             3.1       3.3       14.3      24.7      3* 3J.5             62.9      48.9
Ott_ b_                                             7.9       12.7      14.1     U2.7       13.1      17.9      4.3       93.9
AdinistiativE    _                                  4.1       6.6        3.1      11.3      14.6      17.6      D.        39.5
OthW O4t;q                                          0.3       2.7        3.3       3.4       3.7       5.2       17.6     37.2
Lcm.LM P,mgjisa QW)                                 0.6       1.2        4.4       6.3       7.6       6.7      14.0      21.
Tamm                                                2.2       5.7        7.3       6.8       3.6         3       6.6       11.2
Na PvuIt                                            2.4       4.9       5.3       9.1       9.4      21.4       32.2      27.6
Divu                                               6.e        1.2       1.4       1.9       3.4       4.7        9.7      8.1
RA1m
Gm. &-4a d X o  TA                                  2.1       2.8       3.9       4.2       4.3        4.J       3.9       2.3
Adainis C;*        a X f ATA                        2.6       2.1       1.7       1.9       2.1        2.1       2.0       2.2
GC  rb   -    d ATA                                6.1        6.C       6.0    . .4         6.1       6.1        7.0       7.4
?t Prdit - Io A# .. Nt Waft                        36.1      41.9      31.3      39.7       31.2      41.8      W.        31.2
Dvwild  - % Y wd  9A CetaI                         15J       14.1      16.5      14.1       3.2       A.4       43.9      =.5
O;v;*PmwCt io R     )                              2C.0      24.5      2.4       20.9       35.2      21.7      3.6       2
Tobl Iimsn                 l1 U.5                         Ll.4      12.8       12.5      12.7      11.1      11.4      13.4
btmt                       t %   A.C,Ll          3.1       9.1       9.60      2.2       W.?        6.8       6.0       7.'
3w Zntsv"      ml A^.Oqmit,Lm  P1I               3.9       6.4       6.6   C    .0        6.2       4.5       3.6       5.1
7.6       7.9       6.2       0.7       6.5       6.6        7.6       8.4
4.2       2.7       ii        4.4       4.5        4.3       4.1       2.8
I/d 'i            a .   as  a 



*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~xN A   '04                                                         ANEX4L£is"R
93 -          - AD    a    ofdw                   A 3g  TaINE   4-I.
>  in  llillbn)            a8e  19 of 20
urnt;cFin  im       in        u.        in am     19S3       im        IN
Swt-Twm  Fwxb                              1J.9       1.          LA.     421.3        .3     417.7     619.3        .I
within I yar#                                Si        U. w6                6.3       a.2      1.1       UR.        Me.6
Otw. USit--To* Jiss                               13.1      VA.       113.       71.6      6.7       79.3      93.3      N7.1
Curr" ANN"                                INA       2mJ       40.5       49.7 W    44.2      31.3      3.1       gS.S
ifh    8;^                                         #Al      70.        #         0.7       2.5        a.7       3.6      12.0
Wwiqm* cn l.                                       6.       13.        13.9                12.5      a71       10.4      243.8
F1umd NWa Iur  ftQb)                               3.19      5.7       135 6      .        314.8     U.S       41.3      48.3
lmi x 15   .                                  239.      37S.4     31.1       76.5      61.        MA       133J.7    M77.7
2. ULib I titz od 6aity
Cuv  md rim oits
C l_ thn I                                    USA       MS.?7    3MA        6J.3    3I.2         4U.1      31.3     S31I.1
(1* )                                        3.1       3.3       3.        3.3        3.3       3.        3.    e .o
Divid %,b                                          3.6       0.9        1.4       1.9       2.2       8.3       4.4       6.5
r SLantwiii U   itim                             13S.1      16.4 I.2             .6      15.2       33.7       A.1      263.3
Cunitl U4                 1 VJ INA                   MA       43:.2      641.5     P7.3      WA        MA.9    1676.9
rim Dwita    w rI1V)                9.J                      3.4       3.6        3.6       9.9   2 .3   J 3.3             1.4
L.u   "14p pio  Layt)                             79.3      13.3      119.6    i153         29.0     lei        19 0.9
OChr LiQ i itm                                      .e        O.o       1.5       0.7       *.9        1.6       7.2       *.a
AlduA Lay1 . L,'; I tis                            79.9     113.4     Us.7      13.3        11.3      3.9       Ui         9.4
gem Capitol                                        5.4        3.4       36        3.5       9.3        9 '      11J       U3
ikin md iirqp w      Rm                            4.J        7.A       .7       18.2       19.9        I       49.4      73.4
*b woth                                     9.4      133       17.2      2.7        3.4       $LS       3L5       63.4
MUm UiL173  NW law                           219J         A.      31.1      713.5     6.         MA       13S       1W?J.
Cati*  Libi I ltim 1/ 1V.7                                   33.3      212.3  i7.          1.5        2t1.2     24.2      543.9
6371W
Cu,.wt 63tio                                         1.1       1.1       1.3        1.0       3.3       3.3       *.7        0.6
T*41i 00 mit,                                       22*.3     27.9       32.4      31.3      2.0       22.1       25.6      17.8
Totl       i  T A_.4                                          71 T       2S.4  O.2  3s1.    -11.7      43.7 2.7             2258
AenI 1r*M in Tomtl                                  14.0      21.6       2.6       2.3       15.1       17.2      17.3      19.5
Aws  1        a                                     0 U.S    3U.S       32.3       2.7       2.1        3t.9      38.3      36.5
Avrs  Eoji           t      yA -M                        9.9       9.8       9.8       U.4   SS.4   t4.O              12J0   $13.0
Av        toa    (ATA)                             14.3      27.2       475.3     6A73         .7      763.9    1127.W     S2.2
Avsp                        i                         ".2     U14.      IS63. 179.0   1 5.4            23.6       Md0 5 41.0
Avwqp               Lu 32                                     112        15.       19.5      25.6       4.        45.       73.4
Av s D                                              37.1      17S:      284.      39.4      427.9      417.A     MA       U11.5
A                                                  ii its  :d  1  ?blo  H&I  a  3M.0  523.2  40.4      427.3     MA       SSlO.S
Awl        Uens ar t^                              14ti.6    MYt. 3ME.0            WA       . 5 .2     ftS.l   il4.4    1118.4
NU STAlW
bL*~  tim                                           10.2      23.4       2.4       41.5                63.4  .2  13.4      13.3
L*~   Evr                                            6.3      U.4 A       9.3      17.1      V.7       8.6        62.4     17.4
Can S5em                                             3.4       11.6      15.6      24.4      35         34.6      24.9      15.4
ou-t hor                                            1O.U       19.3      17.1      17.2      14.2      23.3      69.6       84.7
wain;eti w       _                                   5.3       3.6       13.1      13.7      13.5       17.6      24.1      37.9
OUs t qssteng                                        1.9       2.5        5.3       7.5       3.1        8.9      19.4      22.5
Lam'taiii Provision O)                               0.3       2.2        3.0       6.3      U.S         2.7       7.7      .4.8
T_au                                                 3J        4.2        6.0       6.6       6.6        6.J       9.1       8.3
No Profit                                           2.9        4.4       6.0       5.5       19.1      13.4      17.2      38.3
D;vidc                                              3.6       *.7        *.9       0.9        1.9       3.8       4.4       5.5
PAT
C'-wa  rm   Xao ATA                                 2.1        3.9       3.3       3          5 6.4     1.3       2.1       1.0
Adinistive Co       X od ATA                        3.         2.9       2.1       2.1        2.3       2.3       2.1       2.5
arm inew mi XI3  A%?                                3.2        7.4       7.0       6.5        7.6       6.4       6.9       6.6
ot Profit m X f kr. Ni r                              .15     33.    J .1         2.3        39.S      3i.5   S .2          51.6
Dividrd aS Yp'.rd SW* Ctml                          9.3       13.       13.6     1S.6        2J.       4.3       4.3        96.
DividrPpay" 61l  (1)                                17.2      15.9      1.3        16.4      S3        2.4       26.7       1i
Total $nca. in i %Aw.C_,,Lau    ._sm             13.9      12.7       U.7      U1.6       53         12.3      17.9      21.2
I.-~  tam - N A~s.CM,,t.oin~                      7.9       3.3       7.0        3.2      19.3       3.4       U.9       13.7
3        E.wm - I Aws.O~asmt,L.g. PayI             4.1        4.2       2.?       3.3        3.        6.09     12.4       12.4
2.9       4.6       4.3        4.9       6.4       2.4       4.6        1.3
for swam cff im.



-.,L       OF        SLFV    4 SIAIMM  - 
-94 -                     ft_*       7WA            Past 20 of 20
clin;f1~~;ai            _m                                im         1.6 _W                                      ._1  
p.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Cl.   ha~
bet-Tm Fw '"J41.2                                      W.4       12.1      1A.9         7.9     X1.3      416       U4.1
14.ins  X  8        24.2       3.4        4.3       3.3       *.1        6A
W mu   S.rt-Toi  Am                           9_______       2_______4___________________________
Cum t                                      6 .S      W.?       19.6      238.2     14.        21.9       3.6       W.4
hffl  _                             fJ        r§04        .$~~~ q.0.        11.7        a          §1       X
t5  :_0w .o e.s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                          1.7       6.s l.2
lI.Al                                          111.7     284       211.9      5.4       .25.9      76        8.1    156.6
2. U*   lita                                        - - Ade
am     , yw                               4.4         1          U         6.        1         15         36        3 .i4
an  LLeim tl                                     4 ..2      5        3          19.4 VJ    *        171.2     1i3.      25.5
Ch.red   U~   l1tX n                         .4      15         8         216.6       .J 8     7*           *        .2
Ib_TltXti6.6                                             6I4         6.6       1.4         . 91.    13.5       14.3      3.9
IM1im&mumLbilitIm                                 19.2       4.        4.7        9|.9      nJ.        13.       3.K9      IIII
2. u4m 1 ltka a.d                                                        6.5     11*        itl         *       6
9Cowt          __                               4.3        tJ        tJ     -.$                               19J8      15.6
;wkn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                             iZ    dari      t _ | _ 2       A    * $A          0. @4     7 t4 a
riviln  q~bY'~7.1                                3.5       1.85      1          1.9*       15        3.74*     3
iWNL L9 .11   ab I                            IAt? m    22 .4      2m.9      3* 44.3                ".      004        VI.
Curit    M Ul    t6.3                                      6.9.      Z6.9       6.9        6.3      .74         6.7       6.7
rnl       i  (n)6.2                                            1*9        2.1       156         .3       6.         1.7       4.6
Am.   a   ;n r|g                                      9. 1      0.6       164       10         1.3       19.4       13.       12.
Lam ,Li"           rLo ^5b                                   14 9      224 69224 2 367         .         .49      36.       5.22
Ow""Wou'Vi"'W"o    W*"                        old 42.   12                   U.        1 8.9 1Z.3          1J.         14.
Amp E~~~~~~~~~ity                       5~~~~~~.43  .        9.5       12*        L8a        .7       4.         65.7
AvWOia  a   m   u1e                                  77.       1.3       34.6        7.1        *.         .7      03.9       13.2
A°ni        w    ad N i                               2.9     *14         2LS        39.2     34.4       439.                1175.5
M2.6                                                  1.1        19.7      3.7       5.2  °       .3       as44 1?2.6
WT      m                                             3 O.      18.7      18.2.      19.2J23.4 41 3J.8 6.S                  I".1
CU aftrf UbIMm/                                      2.1        5.4       7.3      92.7      97.2        18.7      41.5       73.3
PnStt ~~~~~~~1.7                                 . 2.S      3.2    O .Z          4,5       6r.79.
Oiwr     ti         .                                 0.7       3.0        2.3       4.6        *.J       6.7        *J        0.
TOUI                                   14.7       25.8 3     gj        22.4      22.1       2.1110 2 S  1.9
LWM   mmtt Pmtvegaab  ANAM4.                                   UKA          .1      35.3       3:1.3.                09.2       .
tAWM* P                                              1.49.     19.6       2.3        3.3       6.2       19.4      13.6       2.6
Oivi~~~~d                                         6 .4     65.6        6.6      36.3       19.9       1.5       i4.8       4.2
To   S% -i -tA       --M                           2.3      12.3        1.96      2.? 9      2.4       2.        1.6       14.1
i~i~he  ~. 95 oF                                  2.6        7.5       1.3       12.3       1.2        1. 471.             10
O,rIu. mtot A1~                                      6.         5.3     2.6          6.1       4.,.                 6.2       6.7
3d h.s~~~~. ~Me ~~~.d,        3*.        13.1      3.9-      314.7      3.4       4.49       66.3      4.S
L-ftrat n~~~~~~                        C9.        14.5      19.6       16.6      31.2       153      Ul.6       W.7
O,Wuti      e~dSu  Cib                               3.6      14.7        3.2       2.12       16.2      312.       11.1      13.4
DivI,s Pd _ Il;ocr
Gmow hoimd  2EA.C'Lu              i1.4                        13.        13.3       .5.       15.4      14.       36.5       19.9
Od    r  him    m    ',CdiLww                        .3        9.4       .9.        9 .1      11.       18.7       14.5      12.3
Adint ni           3  i.r    La       al             .9        0.        0.8        3-i        7.1       6.7       134 .8
inj                             0~~~~~~1.   .7       6.6         .32.3    7.6                   7.297  l  64.5
Tom                                     0.         1.5      ~~~~~2.3  3 9 26  .    4.7       .4.        1.2      01.8
M*e Put             qd                                                       23                     2       UV r
Dividmb                 0.4       0.4        9.8       9.2        1.0       I.S        3J        4.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 95 -
Annex 4-2
Page 1 of 6
,aL SZFUDL!C OF NIGERIA
OTO STURBVI     PROJEC
CUlDIT GUIMIESM AND PIUCTIONS 0? P11S
Obt ctives
1.        The main objectives of the Oy  State Urban Project are to:
(a)  strengthen the financial, operational and managem nt capacity of
the institutions responsible for urban mana8-mnt and services at
the state and local government levels;
(b) improve urban physical and investment planning, coordination and
evalu#tion;
(c)  mobilize financial  isources at the state and local government
levels; and
(d)  remove major city-wide constraints to promote the efficLent
functionLag of Ibadan and of Oyo state's other major towns as
regional development and service centers, wLth emphasis on
rehabillitatLon and maintenance of existfrg infrastructure.
Functions of the PFls
2.        Selected  igeig$an Banks will partLcLpato in financLng, appraising
and supervlsing the project. The lbadan rehabilitation components,
however, have been appraised by the Bank. In connection with the lbaan
components of the project, the Merchant Banks' functions are:
(a)  to serve as financial intermediaries of the FGN. World Bank
funds would be on-lent by FGO to OYSG, and PFIs would channel
Sank proceeds plus lend their own funds (101) to Oyo State. The
PuTs would negotiate the approprlate fees, charge., terms and
conditions with Oyo State;
(b)  to operate one or more Special Accounts denominated in US dollars
for disbursemnt ,of Bank funds;
(c) together with the World Bank to supervise and monitor procurement
of civil works, equlpment, and technical assistance in accordance
with the sub-loan agreements, ensuring that they adhere to the
applicable World bank procurement guidelines;
(d) to maintaLn and operate one or more Project Accounts on bohalf of
Oyo State and to assist Oyo State to set asLde the necessary
local counterpart funds;



- 96 *
Annex 4-2
2&ae 2 of S
(e) to disburse funds on behalf of Oy State to foreign or domestic
suppliers, contractors, consultants (or as appropriate,
reimbursing Oyo States' Project Accounts) for items eligible for
financing under thk Subsidiary Loan Agreements and to ensure that
disbursements are not made for items that have not been procured
in accordance with stipulated procurement and disbursement
conditions;
(f) to lend to Oyo State the required local currency funds (102);
(g) to assist Oyo State in securing any additional local funds
tsquired to finance the project (bond issues, etc.);
(h) to provide other banking servico (e.g. opening letters of
ctedit, securing foreign esxhange etc.) as required by Oyo State;
(i) to submit reports to I UB, FM ED, CBN and the Bank on the
physical and financial,status of the project;
Cj) to submit on an annual basis, audited accounts to the Bank,
together with any other documntation regarding the status of the
PVIs portfolio that the Bank may reasonably request;
(k) to liaise with the CBN to enable CBN to open and operate a
Project Control Account;
(1)  to liaise with TAM to conduct an annua., z-post performance
audit of the Projects
(m)  to collect Xthe mounts of principal, interest and other charges
due from Oyo State under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and make
thro necessary repayments to the PGN.
3.        For the LO Towns CoMDent, their functions would be identical to
paragraph 2, except that sub-paragrophs I) and (c) would be modified as
followi,
(a) to serve as financial intermdLaries of FGN end on-lend Bank loan
proceeds plus their own funds (102) to OYSG for re-lending to
LGs. PFls vould negotiate interest rates and the loans would for
a period of seven to fifteen years vith two to three years grace
,period;
(c) to supervise and monitor (with ptimary responsibility and in
consultation with PM11) the implemntation and the procurement of
civil works, equipent, and technical assistance in accordance
with the sub-loan agreemonts ensuring that they adhere to the
applicable World lank procurement guidelines and procedures. 



-97-
Ann.X 4-2
Page 3 of 6
Throe further sub-paragraph are added to the P?Is functions,
(n)  to continue and complete preparation of the selected LG towns
component which would include providing assistance vLth the (i)
preparation of plnning and inestment priorititation studies for
the selected LO townm; (Ui) preparation of detailed design for
the solected project componentst and (iii) elaboration of
institutional financial and cost recovery arrangements for the
imple entation of the LG towns component;
(o) to appraise the LO towns subprojects in compliance with the
Infrastructure Developmnt Fund (1DF) Project Guidelines
Criteria for Sub-project Selection and Appraisal"; and
(p) following review by the World Bank, and approval by Oyo State
Government, to present the LO towns sub-projects to the PITs
Boards.
Project Comeoteut
4.        The followLng are the main project components:
(i) lbadan Co2ponents
-  Storm Drainage and Flood control
-  Solid Waste Managemunt
- Comunity improvement Program (covering Mokola, Yemetu and
Agugu commnities)
(b) Rehabilitation of Selected LG Tons
A line of credit is established under the project for
rehabilitation and lproveewnt of infrastructure and services
in Ile-Ife, Ilesa, Ogbomoso, Osogbo. Oyo and Saki;
(c) InttitutLon Strengthening and Revenue Enhancement
- Investment Planning and Prioritization
- Project Coordination
- Local Government Strengthening
- Land Management, Physil Planning and Development.
iliaible oExe                                                             ,-
S.        The following are eligible expenditures under the project:
(a) roads and qrainage, in partLcular the rehabilitation of existing
road and drainage networks and the construction of new linkages
to aid traffic flow and relieve congestion, public transport
facilities parking areas;



- 98 -
Anme 4-2
Page 4 of 6
(b) solid wast&' anageusnt, inclu4ift the ptovision and/or
rehabilitation of vehicles, equipment and containers for
collectioka sd disposal, devlopment of snitary landfills,
offlces, workshops, construction of traneker stations;
Cc) sanitation, Including the provision or improvement of low coat
public soaitary conveniences;
(d) street lighting;
Ce) markets, in particular the rehabilitation of ezisting facilities
and the improvemnt of services; and
(f)  other high priority infrastructure investunts related to
industrial, coeamrcial and residential projects that are in
accordance with project objectives.
6.        In addLtion to physical works, the aroject viii finance
(C) studies aimed at sub-project ideutification and preparation,
institutional developmont, resource mobilisation, and improved fi*an cal
and technical mangemnet; and (Li) technical assistance for sub-project
implementation and aonitoring.
Sub-Loan Arnamts
7.        The Bank loan of US$50.0 emllion equivalent and cofinancing of
US$3.7 million equivalent will finance the foreign exchang component or
78Z of total project cost. Of this mount, US$35.4 sillion equivalent will-
be used to finance the Bank-appraised Ibadan coaoonents and US$17.5 million
equivalent will be for a line of credit to finance PPI-appraised sub-
projects in selected LG towns.
S.        Maximum mount of Bank loan procteds for any LO town will not
exceed 75Z of total sub-project cost, excluding land.
9.        Sub-loan in amounts of less than US$1.0 aillion equivalent will
not require the prlor approval of the World Bank ('free-limlit sub-loans').
10.       Maximms  sub-project cost for any one LG town will not exceed
US$2.5 mllion equLvalent.
j  1.     In order to ensure timely project implemwntation, the Pi1e are
required to comit the Dank line of credit for the selected LG towns sub-
projects by the end of year 3 aftor project effectiveness failing which
those Bank loan funds would be cancolld.
?



A~~~~~~~~
-99-
Annex 4-2
Page 5 of 6
On-Lendins Term. for PPI-alpraised Subirolecte
12.       The vari.ble interest rate applicable to on-lent Word Sank funds
would reflect prevailing international rates and is to be agreed between
Oyo state and the PFI* and reflocted in the Sub-Loan Agreoe_nts. Such
agreed interest rate will incorporate the cost of Bank funds to the PFPs,
and a spread to cover administrative cost and credit risk which is to be
borne by the PFIs. Oyo State would bear the foreign exchange risk, as the
beneficiary of the project.
13.       The commitment charge of 314 of 12 on the Bank funds not
withdrawn from time to time will be borne by Oyo State.
14.       The terms and conditions applicable for the Pfle own on-lent
funds will be those prevailing in the market and will be established
between Oyo State and the PFIs.
15.       The Bank loan will be on-lent to Oyo State by the PFis for a
period of seven to fifteen years with a two to three year  arace period.  In
case of prepayments by Oyo State, CBN  must similarly be notif*td and this
amount must also be prepaid to CIN.
Withdrawals
16.       Special Accounts in foreign currency will be established in each
PFI. A maximum of US$1.5 million (equivalent approximately to 3 months
disbursement) will be deposited by the Sank in respect of the Oyo Stateo
Special Account and US$500,000 in respect of the PPI special account. The
PFIs will be entitled to process periodic withdrawals from their respective
Special Accounts to finance the foreign exchange component of the project.
These accounts will be operated on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank.
17.       The initial depo$its into these accounts will be made at the time
of project effectil ness. Replenishment of such accounts will require
submission to the Bank of full documentation or, in the case of smaller
contracts, certified statements of expenditures (SOEs) for all eligible
project expenditures by the relevant PPI, as well as evidence that the PFI
had submitted duplicate copies of its disbursement requests and
documentation.
l.       PFIs disbursece:ts from their respectlve Special Accounts will be
on the basis of architect's or engineer's certificates against approved
contracts or, *here appropriate, under Bank Procurement Guidelines, against
certified SOEs of approved project ministries or agencies. Full contract
documentation is required for all eligible expenditures except for civil
works contract \of less than US$50,000 equivalent and other contracts of
less than US$20,000 equivalent.



-100-
Annex 4-2
Page 6 of 6
19.       The detailed contract and disburseoent documentation iholl be
retained by the PF'. and made available for review ,y the Bank.
20.       lank loan disburseoeat shall be made on the basis of 1001 of
foreign and 751  of localproject expenditure. for civil works and
equlpmet, and 1001 of total costs for technlcal assistance and services.
October 19S9



-101 -
101                   ~~~~~~Annex 4-3
Pap  1 of 16
VEUA EEULC 0' NOUZ
00 STU I UMUM  PSOJEC! (OP WS.
STAIR AND LAL GOUVREEN?  MNANCES
I.  Oro STATE GOERNTR
A.  Revenue
Recurrent - External
1.        The basic instrwment of revenue sharing is the Federation Account
which is embodied in the Nigerian Constitution. The major constituents of
the Federation Account ares (a) petroloua profit taxes, royalties and
licenses (786); (b) customs and *zcise duties (15.5t); and (c) corporate
profit taxes.  The Federal Government retains 552 of the Federation Account
and distributes 35S to the state governments and 102 to the local
governments. The statutory allocation constitutes betveen 752 and 851 of
Oyo State's total recurrent revenue.
Interal
2.        The maj,r sources of internal revenue from taxes arees       Incoom
Taz, Pay As You Earn (PAYE) and Direct Asseesment (relating to income of
self employed persons); (LI) sales tax; (Cii) other taxes; and (iv) motor
vehicle licenses. In addition, internal revenue is generated from
licenses, fees, fines, rents and interest, etc.
3.        The Internal Revenue collections from taxes increased from
037.8 million in 1981 to 552.3 maIlion in 1984 and then declined to
3148.3 million in 1987. The budgeted lnternal revenue from taxes in 1988 is
N49 million, and N55.7 millLon for 1989. The main reasons attributable to
the temporary decline in internal revenue aret (i) downturn in the economy
in the recent past, and (ii) narrow tax base and poor tax administration
and compliance in 0yo State. The poor tax administration is a result of
inadequate institutional structure, lack of manpower equipmnt and
transport in the Internal Revenue Department. There are 31 senior staff
and 260 junior staff vacancies out of 267 and 666 established posts,
respectively. Furthermore, thore are only 9 functional vehicles out of
which only one is under seven years old.



NIGERIA
OVO STATE URBAN PROJECT
OVO STATE MSTRY OF FIANCE
PROPOSED ORGANISAllNAL CHART
| INTEmL   |.VL
I DEPARTMENT 
r-1  }|1 '8 21 8.81  1.  8, 
WI~~~ Ii            Ii                      ''1g-     111 I1 .ii ..i
I~~~~~~~ ....
0XWk I & WiWi                       a                     iick
to  tA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
81-  I        S~~~~~T - Plad Tax"sW
-    IPIT - Pwimanal Incowe Tim (Itd.. & PAYE)                                   A
SLa- SalsiemT 
I.



- 103 -
Annex 4-3
Page 3 of 16
4.        A revised organization structure of the internal revenue section,
in lino with the guidelines from the Federal Government, has beon submitted
to the office of the Governor for consideration anl approval.  The basic
difference at the management level is that the existing two divisions, one
dealing with personal incom tax *nd the other with remaining taxes have
been replaced by four divliions with the following functions (see page 2)s
Mi) Administration, and Board aatters and investigations; (ii) personal
incom taz and a legal department, (iii) other taxes, (iv) bettLng business
(pool, slot machines, lotteries, etc.). The chages to rationalize the
structure at the branch and tax district level have also been incorporated
in the proposed revised structure.
5.        Although in practice individual states have little flexibility in
determining tax rates, the tax base will enlarge as the population
increases.  Moreover, when the new managent structure is implemented and
the manpower, transport and equipment constraints are adequately addressed,
it is estimted that the existing level of total internal revenue (taxes
and Kinisteries) of 8121 million would increase to 1208 million by 1992 and
then continue to increase to 3414 million by 1998. This will ensure that
the heavy dependence of the state governaent on the Federation account will
not increase any further in the foreseeable future.
3. kaomadtare
Recurrznt
6.        The personnel cost in 1986 and 1987 smounted to 73.9? and 66.5S
of the total recurrent expenditure, respectively. The expenditure on
maintenance and overheads was 9.3Z and 9.71 respectively. The inadequate
allocation for maintenance is apparent from the state of disrepair of
economic and social infrastructure.
7.        Debt service was not a major problem before 1984, as on internal
loans it was largely limited to long-termn  ederai ibeveoplopnt loan stock at
relatively low interest rates and on external loans which were mainly
raised between 1980 and 1983 and carried a moratorium of 3-5 years. The
decline in the exchange rate of the Nairs against other currencies has
considerably increased the cost of external debt servicing. The severe
budgetary constraints have resulted in the state not being able to meet all
its debt service obligations. The rescheduling of the debt service burden,
agreed by FON in principle, will enable the state to muwt its obligations
over the next ten years.



a"5 STAtS 4*Ui flJK3
-.5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
3,. Slt fImaiel Puehm.l,m
_ ____.............. __. __..  __.....
gOalm-o"lLe)
obito $146is-)
LOS?      low       aIwo      aim.      tw1       so":      to"        1104     am.1       am14     191       a11
UR"11O                               ----        ----     ----        ---     ---         ---     ---         ..----_ ..   ----     _----_    __ ....   ..... ___.
a Pedermi Ireeeferoez                      48  a     512 0     82 a      311 a      1.        ".       .01  0   1.11.60 O. 0t.0S 0,31.0  .£-.0   1.4514
3.  tebreaS i.e.... bi                  am0. u     20 tas   la$I      U4.        a0        aIn a     tooga 3_4 _            .1    345.a    $69.        Sm.0
4. Irooe Cr&eIGAs                            0S.70   *I       74           IS        13.       a*         MS    *3.          82        34.5      86.a      33. l8U . ,
4. *totr to &CA  61                          DA* i  n_ a4   0 *               ao s    * X      .2  It *  sx *     .W         Wae       so.A      M-1       014w
I. Bibs.  rvi.e. .j1                        *4        134 1    S" 4       a" a    3"4.?    in..    S3  41   4*58            4330      au..    341.4        54.6
1. 3t4&r Correel lssediure -It            03.S    33.3    AV6.4          4*8        4*3       mS0.        o O0     n -* 0..            W.   5.064   3t.1 1.11S
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....                    - -- --   - ----- - ... ..- --.- ---  --- .- -.-.-  ---.- - --  .....   ..
*.Tea.i Cme..l Gopemolis.ors              835.1     33413      M s       M iW     644.:    91.0  a1.91A   &AMuA   a.M.1   2.m1.0   I.M.i   Luca1
9. OJ_a.   St-                              am.      all.$      344          0  * I            M m a        ° .1)    (3-.)   Mi        Wa       tue       aM4
as. WeFAS SAu 1n. a                                s . n so Fe    a a       4ar1       s. M      3.63     -G.tS    .*.45       B."        .5m               St-S
am?       am        am        aom       1a        am        as        In$       a1.1      am        low       am
a. Foersm  Tueeosthe..                     452 0       a O0    o" a        n o     ns.e o      m    .e  a*a    I.aJ. - *.am.e   a.=  a.           m.   t.4*.0
2 . dteteral Slaves. SI                      eIB.     In2 a     a45 4     t3" a     t3310-    SW&.       M-5.     882.      311.8      M-*    31          453.0                       S
.50.5  05.55  ss    v.5.5    .5~~Sass   ea5    0.0-s0               maSie                              m
2. To"# Curres. maves.                     31.1      I"4a *4t.           3410.      635.9  t.t *.t.e   a.m.o      *st.  1a.4m.    a&.M.    I.u.e    m. *. 
4. t,a.-  La t" el                            0O      * s 32     4a        to a      t.4       13.6      13a  s o-.*          .1       a3.?      W3.       414
S. Irsef  be s.eba.e.aiom Agesma. dJ         a o      15.4       14.a     34.       6.,    All. a       IN.-      t-.:    t.a          M        am.n.e    Ul a
*.  b  USrvice *1                           *W 3        4" I    2" *4    of.0       W.e        S.*      33.3    335.1       .65.1    43.1    Ma              .,a
I Ctereo4A OK- ap. .a-i   sb es.gg                                         3         3..       3.8        4 4       5.1       58        3.4       5.0       a3
3  sabot Carvoes.,Ssoe0ALs.t.               M  a    331        3  15.4    43.5    431.3        3.3    la.S         6.3       5.        Wt   t.131.4   1.8" a
_ _ . _ _ _ . . _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ .     . . . .     . . _ _ . . .. _...  -- - -  ------- . .     ..     ._. _.....  .. .. . ..  ------- . 
0. Pte-   Corries. S.-e-dls.u.          _ 12?        61.e       710.4     M-3    348.3        1.a   tl.e    a1. S *   2.4&3   a.Su.i  I.M.8  t.44t 2
to  c1l.l   m us                            amo       s at-9.    s0 o      41.       Me.a    tIr.t    (34 5)        10.0      45.5    164        133.8     40.t
1,. MOnAlk RAS                               8t.43     aG."       4 =       *.*       0.35      W.13      -4.3   * .n 3         .33      S."       I.n   m.M
" am; " lso *for_o. o               .
el cos.trt_ed frim  In 633 fldoo #W Uaeta. 4A..sgo too)
bj Pr.jes.ime boed  aOm    mialieoumee   is Se* _.o.s .4 ISo rows.
a/Iseed at 135of imera. *t   re"veso by Mhe CeeOs..s.s . ue e
di teed.s atm to 1o4Sm  rovemm, a. ver J'deres 4overeeei directive a. Sto"  Bivie 9s _.1
a/ Aeoauod raocbodl ine.1s hof*dresa oaverne.e  deabl over 31 posts as too eamee 4lget
gvoagee o,e  US.r  :s.3 21-     e:sone.   eads fam  :eer ::coo.e _ -*o.f..  gilb   0
local bomb, ever too* ra?er* as. !4 33. cematrctser ever fivegoaNro St an 1i~oue5 omi
osloroal $Oeem  over to gun  froe am  a  s 1 s bt f*vwo tgoo*  r. -erd orse_
tosppmwo. *Per 20 years at 6.20isLcoa -Xf        l# ive year Se". ~Go
Mae" "S oetar so.ee sasod La area bg 135g., oase.. *ta&t CM  hsoge by M6 VW _mesS
oeiaesoe D" ovehea  *V_os  by go0 pe  *A_%  vmpt s*lo so   whe  mm iaow  ii os
La esteblieka k* beb.l^s.at.oa  04 lbsotosee&  Peed.
Ae._od a. be A of trojoct, c.s_  *of  _ee..



-Wt05 -                           Annex 4-3
Page 5 of 16
Capltal Xxnemodture
8.        The capital expenditure incurred during 1982 and 1983 was
financed largely with syndicated external loans contracted at inappropriate
terms, i.e. high interest rates and slow repayment periods. The Federal
Government loans were the biggest source of local borrowing. The state
governmaet also undertook capital projects financed by contractors, local
banks and surplus on the current account.
9.        A comparison of the state's budgeted and actual performance of
capital ezpenditure from 1981 and 1986 shomi that between 1981-83. the
actual performance was between 1.62 and 21.22 of the planned levels, while
between 1984-86 it was between 30.42 and 65.5. In 1987 the actual
expenditure xceeded the budgeted figure, and in 1988 budgeted and actual
capital expenditures were equal, primarily, due to realistic budgeting.
Canital lintadlture - Comarilso of Budgst and Actual Performance
1981    1982    1983    1984    1965    1986    1987        1988
Budget          379.1   420.3   396.2    99.9   133.7   207.6   191.5   359.3
Actual           80.3    61.9    65.8    65.4    80.6   104.7   234.3   361.3
Achievement       1.22   14.7Z   16.61   65.51   60.31   50.4i  122.3Z  100.61
C.    FinancLal Prolectiaris
10.       Summary projections of revenue and expenditure for Oyo State
'without and with the Project' are shown on Page 4.
Board of Internal Rvenue
(i)  Pay As You Zarn (PAYS) which constitutes over 55  of
internal revenue is aspumed to grow at a nominal rate of
51 over the 1988-98 perlod because the deductions are made at
source by the employers and remitted to the state. It is.
however, possible to improve collections through improved
inspection of employers' records to ensure that correct amounts
are collected, all eliglble employees are covered and the tax
deductions are promptly remitted to the State. WLth improved
management, and enlarged tax base due to population growth, it is
assumed that the revenue from this source will grow at the\rate
of 102 per annum.
(ii)  The Direct Assqesment, which presently constitutes 151 of
internal revenue, ls poorly collected and is not likely to grow
by more than 101 per annum. At present only about 251 of the
potential is exploited. With improved management, through



- 106 -                          Ann*x 4-3
Pae p6 of 16
revised revenue mnagment structure, it is assumed that this
will Increase by 15S in 1986 and 1969; 20? in 1990, 1991 and 1992
and then by 15? from 1993 to 1996.
(III) The sales tax incom in 1986 was X6.3 million compared to 12.7
illion In 1966 this is an Impresslve 133t increase. Its
contrLbutLon to internal revenue Increased from 5? to 13?. There
is a lot of scope to further exploLt this source of revenue. Wlth
the existing systm it Ls assumd to grow by 10? per annum but
the administration of sales tax can be iproved in scope and
effectlveness, More itme and Institutions would have to be
covered. It is aisumd that salos taz will grow by 20? in 1988
and 1989, 30? in 1990, 1991 and 1992 and 202 from 1993 to 1998.
(iv) The other tazes have been assomd to grow by 102 but with the
project it is assumed that In 1969 and 90 the growth rate will be
2O0 and there after 10? from 1991 to 1998.
(v) SLLlarly the license revenue is assumed to grow by 5? wLthout
the project ant 10? with the project. Licenso revenue
constLtutes about 5? of internal roevnue.
11. Contributions from Mnistries
IL)  The general growth In income fro M inistrLes is assud at 7.5?
per annum. lowever, for education the growth rate is taken as
5? of the exlsting lovel. Incom is already over 336 million per
&nnus, and lt is assumed that the government is not likely to
impose heavy additional charges in the forn of school fees.
(IL) The revenue from the Health Ministry is assumed to grov by 15?
per annum from 1987 to 1996, because it is the government's
declared intentLon to improve revenue generation to cover at
least the cost of drug supplies.
StMtutory Allocation
12.       Oyo State's share of the Federation account has been
calculated at 7.21 of the total projected Federation account allocations
for all statee.
Stabilixation icmOit
13.       All state govern ments have been directed by the Yederal
Governmnt to set aside 10? of thelr total revenue ln stabillzation
accounts with effect from 1966 In order to offset the impact of
fluctuations in statutory allocatLons due to changes in oil prLces on
the world market.  OYSG has set up a stablizatLon acc'unt.



- 107 -                          Annez 4-3
Page 7 of 16
CaDital laceaDt
14.       The major sources of capital receipts of the state government
include recurrent budget surpluses domestic borrowing (Federal
Govrnment. Banks and Bond Issues). The domestic borrowing from Federal
Governsnt for financing capital projects, until 1986, had been from
development loan stock (DLS) which was shared among the states using the
same forala as the statutory allocation. Howver. Federal Government
stopped Lssulng development loan stocks in 19$6. The state governcets
are now expected to raise their own capital finance in the domestic
capital market. The Oyo State GCovrnn t successfully floated its first
bond issue in 1988 and raised 330 million repayable in 1999 at 15.Z
coupon rate"
Outstandlna Debt and Debt Service
15.       The external outstanding debt at the end of 19$7 (at exchang
rate of US$l a 34.3) was N1,457.7 million while the internal debt was
3507.9 million, giving a total of 31,965.6 million. This amount
includes accumulated arrears of interest amounting to 365 million, which
have been capitalized. The Federal Covernmeat has agreed in princlple
to reschedule the debt. The debt service cost rcmains between 3164.7 to
3233.9 million during 1986 and 1992 and then rises up to 3532.4 million
as a result of the epiry of the moratorium period.   As the foreign
debts are asomed to be rcocheduled oero the ton-year period from 1988.
the debt service cost in 1998 drops to N34.5 million.
16.       The State should be able to service the roschoduled debt over
the next ten years although in 1993 there will be a budget deficit.
This will be offset by the amount transferred fram the stabilization
account. The projections show that the surplqs ratio is 4.2Z in 1996
and gradually grows to 15.72 by 1992. It will decline to (-4.2t) in
1993 as the full impact of the capital element of the debt service cost
will be felt st the end of the five-year moratorium period and then
steadily grow t, 23.02 in 1998.  The state governmet will continue to
be heavily dependent on its share of the Federation account in order to
met its projected level of expenditure until 1996 and beyond.
D.    Infrastructure Wante.ance and  hobabiltation gluad
17.       The existing infrastructure such as roads, houses. cowmercial
buildings and drains *etc. have been allowed to run down due to
inadequate provision of funds for maintenance purposes. In order to
reverse this trend, a separate ^lnfrastructure Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Fund' has been established and a separate bank account
opened, 152 of the annual Recurrent Budget of OYSG will be transferred
to the above Fund on a monthly basis. The Fund vill be maintained,
controlled and monitored by the Budget Department of OYSG.
i6.       The Fund wlll be exclusively used for expenditure in respect
of rehabilitation and maintennco work relating to materials and
equipmeIt. etc. but excluding cost of salaries and wages of staff as



- 108 -
Annex 4-3
Page 8 of 16
such costs vill remain under the Personnel Enrollments votes as at
present.
19.       The allocation to the Fund and the items qualifying for
expenditure from the Fund vill 5e annually reviewed by the Bank/OYSG.
I.   Develo2pent Plan 1990-1992
20.       OYSG submitted a revised Development Plan (1990-92) which was
adopted in September 1989.  The plan has allocated 11.18 billion to
various sectors as follows:
Sector                      Treasury           Foreign           Total
Component         Component
- ------------   (Million)---------------
Agriculture and Rural
Development               164.4               60.00              224.4
Industry                      64.0                 -                 64.0
Rural Electrification          9.8                                    9.8
Commerce and Co-operative    12.8                  -                 12.8
Transport                    128.0                39.2              167.2
Education                    128.0                 -                128.0
Health                       138.0                15.0              153.0
Information and Culture       70.9                 -                 70 9
Social Development            19.7                                   19 7
Town and Country Planning      7.9                 -                  7.9
Water                         98.5                50.0              148.5
Sewerage and Drainage         29.5                32.7               62.2
Housing                       44.3                                   44.3
General Administration       6V9                   -                 68.9
Total                        984.7               196.9             1,181.6
The Plan is based on the assumption that the statutory
allocation over the three year period, at current prices, will
contribute N3 billion and internal revenue 31.1 billion. This is
expected to yield a budget surplus of 1984 million. The balance of the
funding will come fram external loans.
II.    IBADAN MUNICIPAL GMVOaIENs FINANCES
A.  Revenue
Internal
21.       The municipal government derives its internal revenue from
Community Tax (Head tax), tenement rates (property tax), markets, car
parks, licenses, fees and rents.  The internal revenue oi the Council in



- 109 -
Annex 4-3
Page 9 of 16
1982 was M1.6 million which rose to 13.9 million in 1985, then declined
to 33.8 million in 1986 and rose again to N5.4 million in 1987. The
estimated internal revenue in 1988 is N9.7 million.
External
22.       The Council is entitled to receive a share of 10  of the
Federation account which is distributed among the 3011/ Local
Governments (LGs) throughout the Country. In practice, the Council has
received amounts varying from N2.9 million to 33.2 million between 1981
and 1986. The share of the Federation account is channelled by the FGN
to the LGs through the state governments.
23.       The OYSG maintained a state and local government joint
account. The LGs were required to meet 651 2/ of the cost of primary
school teachers salaries.  The state government deducted this cost at
source from the LGs' share of the Federation account.
24.       The flow of funds from the FGN to the State Governments
relating to the LGs' share of the Federation account for the past four
years, is shown below. The table also shows the amount held at source
by OYSG in respect of the local government authorities' share of the
cost of Primary Education and the balance allocated to the joint
account.
1984      1985      1986     1987
-----------(m million)--------
LGAs' Statutory Allocation              76.6      91.6       85.0    146.4
Contribution to Primary Education       47.9      49.8       48.0     70.1
Amount Allocated to Joint Account       28.7       41.8      37.0     76.3
25.         The state government was also required to pay lOS of its
total revenue (now internal revenue) to the LGs. In practice it was not
paid. However, in line with the FGN's declared intention to channel the
LGAs' share of the Federation account directly to the LGs, the system
has been changed with effect from 1989.
1/   In Hay 1989 the number of LGs was increased to 449.
21   The FGN has established a National Primary Education Fund and from
1989 the FGN will contribute 65? of the cost of Primary School
Teachers Salaries whereas the SGs and LGs share will be 20S Atnd 15?
respectively.



- 110 -
Annex 4-3
Page 10 of 16
3. 3Oite
26.         About 751 of the total recurroet expeaditure was used to
f inanc the cost of salaries and wages of staff. During the period
1962-66 the ezpenditure on health and social services r- ;Se between 34?
to 501 of the total recurrent expenditure. The sxpandiu4te on General
works and services has rangd between 162 and 21.31 fir the same period.
In 1967 the health and social servici wore responsiblo for 39.52 of the
total rocurrcent expenditure while general administration, treasury and
general works and services were responsible for 30.7S, 16.81 and 10.82
respectively. The expenditure for geoeral works and services department
which is responsible for maintenanco of infrastructure Ls totally
inadequate. The lbadan Municipal govern «t has allowed its existing
infrastructure to deteriorate to such a poiAt that i ediate action is
required to halt further deterioration and to reverse the trend. The
allocation of maintenance and rchabilitation of infrastructure nueds to
be substantially increased and in this regard a separate ahainteance
and Rehabilitation Fund would be setup. The cont-ibutions to this fund
would be on a progressively increasing basis which would be agreed with
lbadan Mnicipal Covernment during implementation.
Camital
27.         The Council has a five-year development plan 1986-90 with a
proposed investmnt program of 379.5 million. The Council is not likely
to achieve this level of investment as the Council has defaulted on
meeting its coamitments to contractors for three market construction
projects. The Council's ability to financo capital projects from its
own resources (apart from minor projects),is virtually non-existent at
presont. but is likely to improve when the enhanced property rating
system is fully operational and statutory allocations are directly
channelled to the Council by the Federal Goverment. A summary of the
Revenue and Expenditure Projections for Ibadan Municipal Government
(MG) is shown on page 11.



Cy of Lapeadi6ore P-seic*_a.
..   c.. .           .      1..1          i.aa.0         .... .           ...      4 5.5         8 1...  s..al.a           1i....  ..... ....u@ -a--s.. ................
*s  c...ss, r. AlE .   "                       asi            son a          ass          sue.         sue           AM.           so"e        sosd aso".                  1a           am.           saon
a.  a...... P...  .......                     -.-..           ...            ....         --            ..-..---                   ----         ...       .                ...           ----
.  .mamI 6......a.
A.  c..a8.a ad.l.i.I,.t&m                            104.0           ao.s       i0.s a        m.a          0.*           024.0        018 5        .Oas 1        .m.1         a.M.a   e a.   a     s. as a
A... . .i.. .....ead C&..,..o                        o.?          22. 2          M           a    a       a"           sa eo?         a           a.m.I         a1'*-a         m.a         a.m             am  I
D.   .asestpi, "4.o"C *                tO.7                       1.0        t&.w          S.M.8    a4.Oa. t    *84.sa.            1     .4         .in.*    *9.0 M.I    t4,s5.1     17. 1. a          *l.?"  2
.....................
.....................
cesta  Admi^sbW_*6, t ,ntiam,                     72.           tO, §          MS 2        GO-        "     ,6 8        24 t.0i  a              &.*s  I  U .0*".1 I        &. .          $.I    a     ,Zla  a
.....................
acia. tailF ut sad                           amm e. e s2  s.b     a    asm.as2        sa1  a o      e.ss1.e       2.wa I    8.100a    a.W&. a              O.i000       .41..0        8.501 1     01.002 *    U-
~~~~~~~~~~_..............._.._.._.._.._ 
...............8..811
a.  o...,.a    hd.,.h.tr.t.i..        5.-------    --------     ... ...        3...    ..0..-------         -- -- -     .......      ..  .  4. .  ........      4.......     .. .. ..      .. .. .
8   V...wg                        1.0020        J~~~~~~~     ~~~is. F"  a  56.2045  18.2?    5166,1.1  O G 1,4 S.     . M. S1     8.19.00     i2.111.0      31.861 4      ".10  a       ".01"  a
&0601   V .fa    ca _"ii                            0t I           24          20  .          ".4           Ut 4        as          e.aaaa        cmi          0445.0             1       gm7 a            411 n
2. Ge.s  .^-AX.Aaea. ...2d2 a.                                      am       2, 4          2,tU  4        A .&         8.51O  a     4 84tl.5       8".4           4.4  .         41              5 *1 ,.
a   ca..,, C.._                                              a,ee  II. Ss  o                  s Ur I     $.M. a,." aea.* a               s..        m.as         u F  e.8   s  2.5           m   1        sLeS a.
.      .060as,,             i U                                   6.6         7    .1           1..        ..S         a         a      Is a         Ita..     . a.a.           Saa        so a 8          a  a
S.  c"|*A   £" .p. .JhIau. r      ,               0.8            .S.54       &40.a         1 548.40.    S.u.4         e.me          44s0.,       ',o"I.         a.m.o       a,.0v.4o    sags0           1.s.     7
4aser.1 Wbsa    &"ige                             as 6          say11         as ".4     S."t 7       *.Ms-*  * .861  *,    4.8ts.6            6.11  I  * .0.8  * .4s a                 6,.8-         9.0    4
Cntr. ibuion   t                              s.400@      55.6.  0 o4 060 O           * 90          t    0    t       a *as       ms. a           S a.    *.  4.0            4 I          a a           S I
e.......                  .................................              .....     ... --------    ........    ........  .......                   --------
-sl    X,,t Carst  opaiur  61                X,G  st       4.0    *                   0t .  .4l0.4    60.1011    62.11    1    14.2".8    S6.6"4          U8.4a.8    29611,          28001 a,    *  8 e   4
,  oso  fSOWS"& t,j8 *,                                      4AWS0,        &,4wt§,       #JSDA          ,1."I       0.,.          6,6110.2    90.40.0    19.07.@    82.641.    98.09  *              **M  G
__._....... ...... ........__. . __..._......    ........._,___, ,,,,_._______ .......  __.__ ..........    -------- ........    ........  ...........    -------  ..... _ 
tSIl  N"TAS&                                          eOs 8.1-6  E40s                so.16" at, 11601-           W.m.*    0.9.                           96.11 &".F  U.wS n .#       M9.Oft      41.8  IS*&a*l  
of   ladj._ . d..evome   See  off N 2A00.4MW
bit                of. a:    re                                          :                        '. - _         _
yel  .a. Ie.,.a"   s&.i   mr.  S- ,w gas. at .at ey* 6l ..      . s                byll -..,... ,ohs0e.g  sea w msas F   015 ap am.     Ito-
are    _      to ar4Z.w b % _AS   04*6     *-u   so 1,4 f    he*of 94891 ..Its  &t  aews   to **    bjpAG  60 IO- 1. so"  is W-9
"   in .-4. S"  too la  Wu  to rtelt She, Somm *$&i^sfo   nwdOs of obo*e-



-1-12 -
Annex 4-3
Page 12 of -5
C.   Institutional Arrpeaeets
28.         After the local government electlons held in December 1987,
a new Council was constituted. The IMC had a full-time chairman and
four councillors which constituted the Management Commattee. The
chairman was the chief ezecutlve of the Council and each of the
councillors was responsible for a specific function or functions such as
finance, health and works, etc. The policies of the Council were
implemented by the administration, headed by the secretary to the
Council. The secretary is assisted by departmental heads of Legal,
Estate, Health, Treasury and Engineering departments. Although Primary
Education, Agriculture and Natural Resources are Council functions, they
were performed by the state government due to the weak resource positlon
of the Council. The Council in line wlth the FGN decision was dissolved
and a sole administrator appointed in July 1989 to facilitate the
holding of elections towards the end of the year 1989 in all Councils
throughout the Federation.
D.    Staff and Trainin
29..        The overall, present managerial and technical capacLty of
lbadan local goverrment is extremely limited. The Treasury Department
which is responsible for all financial matters including revenue
collection has one qualified accowtant. The post of Deputy Treasurer
has been vacant for over eighteen months. The Treasury Department is
short of trained staff, equipment and transport required for effective
management of revenue mobllization and collection.
30.         The training facilities, though limited in terms of space
and resources, are available at the Clvil Service Training School in
Ibadan for courses ranging from six weeks to six months for staff at the
lowest level to the executive officer level. The higher executive
offlcers can attend a two-year Diploma course at Obafemi Awolowo
University, Ile Ife. Treasurers can attend one-year higher Diploma
course at the same university.
31.         The 1MG's ability to train its staff is limited by its lack
of financial resources available for trainLng and the non-existence of
training grade p"sta on iLt astablishment so that day-to-day operations
of the CouncLi are not disrupted when staff are sent on training.
32.         The efforts ln training of existing staff, in improving
their operational skills, should be enhanced by joint effort of IMG the
Civil Service Training School. The Civil Service Training School staff
are very enthusiastLc and keen to assist by developing tailor made
courses for IMG staff and with marginal assistance in the form of
transport and audio visual aids the training school can improve its
effectiveness. In the long run the state government has agreed, in
principle' to turn the Civil Service Training School Lnto a Staff
Development College to cater for civil servants at wll levels. It is
advisable to create a number of trainee grade posts, particularly, in



-  13 -                           Annez 4-3
Page 13 of 16
the Treasury DepartLmnt to Improve staff's technical and professional
skills.
B.    Future Prospects of Reue u
33.         The improved management through training, equipment and
transport support will have a general positive effect on revenue
collection. The biggest potential to enhance the Councils' internal
revenue is from property rates based on Capital values. It is projected
that at 1987 constant prices the revenue from property rates will
increase from its ezisting level of under Ni million in 1987 to about
118.8 million in the next ton years.
34.         The recent policy changes announced by the PGN indicate that
the FGN is placing greater ephasis on rural develop nt and vish to
give greater responsibilities to the LGs together with additional
resources. The Council can now request the state or PGN for secondment
of professional or technical staff. A new schem of service has been
introduced for LG staff which is comparable to the civil service. This
should make Council service more competitive and attract technically and
profossionally qualified persons to the service. The Ministries of LG
at the State level have boon abolished and the functions brought under
direct control of the State Government. The LOs' share of the
Federation Account is now being channelled directly from 101 to LOs.
35.         The combination of significantly improved revenue from
property tax and direct channelling and increased share of PFderatLon
account should greatly improve the financial position of the Council.
The PGN with effect from 1988 will meet 65Z of the cost of primAry
school teachers salaries.
36.         The state government operated a joint account for LGs and
put the Local Governme t Authorities' (LGAs) share of the Federation
account into that account. It mt the expenditure on teachers' salaries
and other expenditure on provision of services which are the LGAs'
responsibility and paid a part of the balance to the municipal
governments in the state. -Under the arrangement it is difficult to
disaggregate the expenadture lcurred by the state government on behalf
of IM. It is possible to estimate the Council's share of the
Federation account but since the net position cannot be reasonably
ascertained, the projections of the Council's share of the Federation
account are based on the actual net amounts received by the Council from
the state government. However, now that the Federal Government is
channelling tcn Council's share of the Federation account directly and
as the Council starts meting its obligation of providing statutory
functions, such as rural and semi-rural water supply, seveiage, roads,
public housing, public parks, gardens and open spaces, nursery, primary
and adult education, health, mternity centers and clinics and various
licencing and devlopmental central functions, the position will become
clearer in the future.



- 114 -                          Annex 4-3
Page 14 of 16
II.  Otm  LOCAL CO,iMiNTs D= 010 STAS
37.         The other LGAs in Oyo State also face problem  highlighted
in the case of IMG. They have a narrow tax bass, weak management
structure, lack of skilled manpower and are heavily dependent on their
share of the Federation account.
38.         The project will provide assistance with training, address
the management and structural constraints and establish system to
address rehabilitatLon and minte ance problem.
IV.  nPOFUTY EATI
A.   Prosemt Systm
39.         The present tenesent rating system in lbadan does not
produce a significant contribution to LO revenue due to inadequate
assessment methods and poor collection performance. The present system
is siple as the assessmnts are based on a limLted number of variables.
I.e. location and use of building.  The system has many deficiencies,
i.e. inequity between rate payers, inflexibility In alteration of scale.
arbitrary nature of the scale and collection difficulties in determining
targets and masuring performance. The, average yield under the present
system in IM  is about  l million, although the potential on the
existing basis is estimated at about US million. The poor collection is
due to inadequate manpower resources, equipment. transport and
ineffective control and supervision.
S.  Valuation-ased System
40.         A valuation-based rating system will be more equitable,
provide a wider taz base and considerably higher yield thus making LGs
more self-reliant and relatively los7 dependent on state and Federal
governments.
41.         The valuation-based system tequires assessmnt of each
rateable property and in view of the lack of skilled manpower available
both at La and state levels, private sector valuation specialists would
have to be used to prepare the valuation rolls which will form the basis
of the rating system. The private sector valuers work will be
supervised by the State's Rating Valuation Coordinator, and LG valwrtion
staff will work side by side with the private valuers so that they gait
the necessary expertise and experience in order to enabtle them to keep
the valuation rolls up to date and tc prepare interim valuation rolls on
an annual basis bringing new properties into the rating system.
42.         The work already done on the *go-coding ezercise' to
establish urban property informtion system by consultants for OYSG
would provide useful inputs to the property valuation exercise in terms



- 115 -                          Annex 4-3
Page 15 of 16
of street names and property numbers for indentification of rateable
properties.
43.         The valuation-based rating systm though involving initial
high costs in setting up the system will provide potentially high
revenue yields with main urban areas of Oyo state to *nhance the
existing tenment rating system operated by LOs.  It is estimated that
the new system has the potential of yielding over 330 milllon as
compared to the MI million per annum presently collected by IC.
C.   Action Plan for ftlmm_tatioa
Actions alreaod taken
44.         OYSG confirmed their coamitmnt to the introduction of an
enhanced tenemnt rating system as agreed during project appraisal, and
as outlined in the July 1988 aide memoir, and described in greater
detail in the Deport prepared by IP. Sanderson (Consultant) of August
1988. Introduction of the enhanced system would concentrate on the
urban areas of Oyo State, starting with the MG.
45.         IMG prevented outline proposals for achieving Improved rate
collection performance comencing In 1990. The proposals addressed
three key areass (i) lproved management structure for
direction, organJlation, control and supervision of the staffs (ii)
additional resource requlrement such as staff, equipment and vehicles,
and (i1i) staff training needs and corresponding training program.
46.         OYSG Ministry of Local Government presented draft terms of
reference for a Rating Valuation Coordinator to supervise
implementation of Property Rating Component, initially in Ibadan and
subsequently in select@d towns.
47.         DMG presented draft terms of reference for a Chief Rating
Valuation OfZicer and other senior professional staff required to
implement property rating in Ibadan.
48.         OYS¢ advertised for international recruitment, the post of
Rating Valuation Coordinator and rMG the post of Chief Rating Valuation
officer.
49.         OYSG reviwed the existing legislation, identified
modifications necessary to Implement the enhanced tenement rating system
and submitted these to the Bank for comment.
During Project Implementation
50.         OYS¢ to appoint Rating Valuation Coordinator of appropriate
ability and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
51.         IMG to appoint Chief RUting Valuation Officer and other
staff necessary for the rating valuation unit and provide it with



- 116 -                           AnneX 4-3
Page 16 of 16
adequate acco odation, furniture and equipust to undertake the
proposed functions.
52.         OYSG to engage private sector valuation specialLsts to
undertake the valuation program under toru of refer'nce prepared by the
Rating Valuation Coordinator and reviewed by the Ban.
53.         OYSG to establish a monitoring system to be rviewed by the
Bank to ensure that adequate proguess is made with the introduction of
the enhanced ratlng system and improved collection performance. The
monitoring system would review on a quarterly basis agreed
targets vs. actual performance of the following key indicatorst
(i) staff resources deployed; (ii) number of propertios identified
registered and valueds (iii) total value of assessmnts: (iv) total
revenue collected: and (v) number of staff trained. Remedial action for
shortfalls in performance would be proposed.
54.         IrI  to demonstrate continued improvement in their rate
collection performance in accordance with the targets, outlined belows
Year         Tarmets to be collected
(* million)
1990                        3
1991                        7
1992                       11
1993                       16
1994                       S
1995                       30
Notes   The above targets are based on current inflation rates  ,n the
10-12Z range. Should future inflation rates be substantially higher,
the targets would be rcviewed correspondingly.
AF41M
October 1969



- 117 -
Annex 4-4
Page 1 of 8
FLDUa U3PmLIC oF NiGnu
OYO STATE SBWN PROJECT
ECONOMIC AN&LYSIS AND POVUTY IMPACT
A.  iCOumaC W VAL.flO
1.        Table I contains a sumary of the economic analysis including the
two components for which benefits could be quantifieds  (a) storm drainage
and flood control; and (b) community improvemnt program. The total cost
of the two subcomponents comprises 56S of the Ibadan rehabilitation
component. The weighted average ERR is estimated at 22S.
Stoim Drainame and Flod Control
2.        To determine economic costs, total local costs wara converted
into border costs by the standard conversion factor of 0.85. Foreign
inputs were valued at c.i.f. import prices plus local transport costs
Annual maintenance cost was assumed to be 3Z of physical capital costs plus
physical contingencies and converted into border cost by its own conversion
factor. The equipmnt for maintenance work was assumed to be replaced
every 5 years and their costs were also converted into border costs.
Project life was assumed to be 25 years.
3.        The benefits of this 'omponent were measured by the reduction of
physical flood damages. Based on data of past flood events and resulting
damages as well as rainfall records, three levels of flood damages vere
identifted and estimted at appraisal and subsequently updated to January
1989 pricess (a) annual damages of about Ml million (on average about 200
properties affected annually); (b) damages due to floods every 5 years of
about N2.6 million (the average of past recorded damages): and (c) damages
due to floodl every 25 years of about N540 million (value of damages due to
the 1980 flood which war the largest and estimated to occur once in every
25 years based on precipitation patterns). The benefits were converted
into US dollars at the current exchange rate, and the conversion factor was
applied.  The conversion factor was compated assuming that flood damages
consist of 40? local cost and 60 foreign cost. Benefit streams wer*
quantified by taking the probability of occurrence of these dmapges without
the project. For example, a 5-year flood has a probability of one-fifth t4



- 118 -
Page 2 of 8
9s >  j  a                                      a                         U -*-*1---zv§oo-  6
i . t                                           a        ^^*^^*--"----,   l
j .      a                                      aje  
*i.   .                                          .   i S                   i S
> ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    * , ;                     i  i"ovv****Z^**
i4   IPI              .              .           3 llsl l|ssXXXXXgEl:,
s ,    .'l  j  ;";;;;;;;w*****.9  *6                            0I66
1             :6..Zi  i frsisailitisssisamiUnUiaai
k  ...  li4 1.---  -----*                         a
ii "r'*j , 
*  aw 8-        *m6eeUe       OSeew****Z*@6@e!eeOa -        
?, ? uBflBIUUEflIlhElhIhIflhEElUEhEi|§js                               s
'. J5 ?i i                                                            a
sd   ?,   aOg? e...U.e.@e.eeS66@66ee@@e@al        *
w3   .~ ___       unnnmn...1                                         - 



- 119 -
Annex t4
PagC  A  Of 8
7.64|.  s.aM  or tCaiawC IRA1  or nu
3MM D0A8TWJCTUS U4SILITAIhCN
(Unit: .d'00@ a  Jery lS  Pts)
lb"" C      _eet                          Plimel                    p_i.  P.erentage
lee  Co"                It.% of   Shere i
u2'000           X          I    Rehab.
Seae Cost
Store orlneg  eA Flood CooSrl              10,110.0       40.,       21.2
Cne-*it  Improvemet Pu'  em                 6,4P.@        $8.4       241
MOA  DW       fIMW         COST A I        1,44100.0                 22.2   W 1.2
MODM fASThUC1W  N           SOS    COST    23,254.0                             100.0
WMO
(1) Stere de* i no" and f Ilod  .etnl e_%pemt oeuulude. rvehebui l.te oand
malnateeg m. oigmet subcomponents.
(2) Cunity TIp.'w_.m   compose"  ael_ne       som oorvlea  PIe
-_.



- 120 -
Annex 4-4
PAge 4 of 8
occur each year. However, because the 25-year flood did not occur for 8
years after 1980 until pr*sent, its chance for occurrence will be higher in
the next 17 yoars. The salvag value of the system after 25 years was
assumd to be 501 of physical capital costs plus physical contingencLes.
4.        The base case econosic analysis is presentod in Table 2.  The net
present value discounted at 101 is estimated at about US$11.6 million.
The I   is estimated at about 211.
Community Imrovament Prograu mCI?)
5.        The three comunities to bo Improved (Mokol*, Yoemtu and Agugu)
were combined and evaluated as one. The standard conversion factor of 0.85
was also 4pplied. The total economic cost of capital was estimted at
US$5.8 million at January 1989 prices. An amount equivalent to 2S of
physical capital cost was assumed for the maitenance of the CIP.
6.        Benefits of the CIP were measured in terms of an increase in
property values of the three communities muntioned above.  Two coimmities
(Oke Ado and Old Ife) whlch show housing characteristics similar to Mokola,
Yewtu and Agugu), and which do have adequate Infrastructure and servico,
were selected as comparable comiunities. The average property value of a
comparable structure in the CIP was about *44,000 compared with 377,000 in
the comparable communities*-76.4Z higher. Bence it is assumed that
property values in the CIP comiunities will increase by an average of 76.4%
with the project.
7.        Due to data constraints the total current property values of .the
CIIP were measured by the average property value per room multiplied by the
total number of room. in the CIP. The average property value per room was
estimated tased on sample surveys conducted during the appraisal mission.
Total economic benefits of the CIP was estimated at US$12.5 million in
January 1989 prices. Since this amount represents addLtional benefits
arising from improvements made by the CIP, this benefit will be realized
immediately after completion of the CIP even though the actual market
values of properties will rise gradually for several years. The ERB for
the CIP was estimated at 24Z as shown in Table 3.
Ote1N
October 1989



a-  - se    U,@000D9999000000**e*.e4.*.
'5  -50    .                                  S::      ; :
**  ~O   p .               ,.   , p.
p        _.                          ___ ,    ._., .
Z         ' I'    f.£ .5
** *r
*                            .  .  .a   .   .
j                                    5°  a - 
I    :    *
I~~~~ ~ ~ ~      .~a                       a.
i                               '. Si  ,  ia.
__ _ * .                               :         .a.~  '0i
rI *_
!f ffIiIIIIisu,ais*.5
:..es **              ..a           . _,, 
iij-fuiiIiIiiUiiIUii
_______'_______               45
**O~~~ jt.*S*SSS@*~: . .':
9~~ _.O; £ b
7a ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ >                : Mi$ssiUUy8 *t  ^^.



- 122 -
Anne% 4-4
Page 6 of 8
S.   !Mx IWACT
Povert Thrhold
1.        CUP per capita-in 1968 Ls estimated at IS$221 based on the
revised   11 model for Nigeria In the lank.  The Sank's definition of rural
powerty levl is 4O0 of per capita GUl: the urban poverty level is 252
higher. lsnce the urban poverty threshold iL 1gerA.a for 1966 was
estimated at 3497.3 or S$1103.5 per capita per anum. The following
adjutanuts were naG  by the appraisal mission to reflect a sore realistic
threshold for ThUdan.
2.        The avvrasg  household size for the urban area in CyO  State in
1984 was estimated gt 3.86 persons. Assuming the saw size for 1986, the
urban poverty tbreshold L estijipated to be U140(8 per household per vonth.
In Tbadan, however, famlies with incam  belof 1200 to W20 per wntli are
considered to be low ncome.  ?king the average oa  tho two figures (3225)
and assuming the average size of a household to be 3.88, th. poverty
threshold of Ibadan was estimated at 5696 per capita per annus. These
revised fiures wvre used for this analysis.
Incime DistriUntiom and Poverty Shar
3.        Table 4 gives the income diatribution in urban areas of Nigeria.
Assuming that this distribution also applies to the city of Ibadan, its
poverty share was estimted at 56.62. Based on available data. Table 5
gives the best estimates of incom distribution in the three CIP
com mities.  The poverty share was estimated at 65.92. -Its share is
higher than that of Ibadan city implying that the average household in the
comumnity improvement progru (CIP) areas is poorer than the average
households in the city.
Povert Ionact
4.        The storm drainage and flood control component will banefit
households with income levels almost equivalent to that of the CIP areas.
The solid waste management component will mainly serve the poor and densely
populated areas of the city where incom levels are equal to the CIP areas
at the most. Tatble 6 su mirises the results of the poverty impact analysis
which show  that about 662 of the Ibadan infrastructuke rehabiltation
ezpenditures would directly benefit the poor. Since poverty shares are
estimated conservatively, as discussed above, 66S is considered to
represent the mitnimm share of expendltures to benefit the poor.



- 123 -                           ANNEX 4-4
Page 7 of 8
TABLWS 4t INCOME DISTRIBUTION IN URBAN NIGERIA
(N at 84/85 Prices and 88 Prices)
Income per HE per Morith            Income per Capita per        Distribution
in 83/84                          Annum in 1988                  (2)
(N)                            (MN)
-99                           -392 .                   31.11
100-199                       393-789                      33.28
200-299                       790-1.185                    19.60
300-499                     1.186-1,978                    10.58
500"                        1,979-                          5.43
TOTAL        -                                                     100.00
SOURCEt I id, Table 6.12.
NOTE- The household in&ome in 19a3/84 were converted into the per
capita incoae in 1988 br using (1) the average size of urban
households in 1.98314 bc-ing 6.68 persons (Social Statistics 1985)
and (2) the inflation rnte of GNP between 83/84 and 88 being 54.592
(revised RMSH for NigeriW).
TABLE S:  INCOI  DISTRIBUTION IN THE CIP COIUTIES
(N at 1988 Prices and Z)
Income per             Income per
Surveyed In.           Capita per
dividual per           Annum in 1988    Agugu   Yemetu  Mokola Weighted
Month in 1988                              (1)       (Z)     (Z)   Averne
-100                   -309          25.1      28.7     23.6    26.0
o00-200                310-619          33.9      36.8      30.3    33.8
211-300                620-928          27.4      23.0      24.9    24.9
301-500                9Z9-1.546         9.0       8.1      14.3    10.4
'01-1,000            1,547-              4.6       3.4       6.9      4.9
TOTAL                                   100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0
Estimated                      18,500       25,000      22,000    65,500
SOURCE: Table 3.6, NISER, Socioeconomic Survey of Ibadan City,
1988



- 124 -                          A.FENEA  4-4
Page\8 of 8
TABLE 6: POVERTY IMPACT OF IBADAN
INFRASTRUCTUt REHABILITATION COIeONENT
Poverty
Cost              Share
Basic Cost      Share
(Killion $)      (2)       (2)
Storm Drainage and Flood Control                  :1.95          46.24         5.9
Solid Waste Management                              7.25         30.6        65,9
Courwunity Improvement                              5.50          2314        65.9
Weighted Average                                   23.70        loO.o         5S.9
AF4IN
October 1989



-125-
ANNEX 5-1
Page 1 of 3
NIGt*$A
OYO ST  UUAN PROJECT
DOCUM S IN THE PROJECT FILS
Ref. No.                                                              i   No.
A.       Approved Oyo State of Nigeria Estimates 1988                 D18991
including Sudget Speech
B.       Approved Oyo State or Nigeria Estdiates 1987                 D18992
inclu4ding Vudget Spoech
C.       lbadan Municipal Government.  u¶=4U1 ?tnanci1         -      D18993
Statements 1982-88, prepared by: The Kunicipal
Treasurer
D.       Oyo State - Analysis of Financial Structure                  D18994
and Performance, 1981-86 and Prospects, 1987-95,
prepared by: Emmanuel C. Anusionnu
February 1987
E.       Report of the Inter-Ministerial Committee on                 D18995
the World Bank Assistance on the Improvement
of Ibadan Metropolis, (incl. Upgrading of
Three Core Areas) April 1985
F.       Ibadan Transportation and Traffic Management Study           D18995
Traffic Management Report, Part One and                     A,B,C
Two; Transportation Study, Report of Surveys,
prepared by: Associated Engineers and Consultants
(Nigeria) Limited, Colin Buchanan & Partners,
and Norman & Dawbarn Associates, January 1983
G.       Master Plans for Wastes Disposal and Drainage,               422-07
Ibadan, Vol. I-IV prepared by:  MacLaren                     (79-2-4)
International Limited, May 1971
H.       Master Plan for Ibadan Metropolitan Area - Phase             D18997
I, Vol. I-IV. 1983
I.       ADB Loan foT Emergency Rehabilitation Project for            D15412
Ibadan Watet Supply, prepared by: African
Development Bank, November 11, 1986
J.       Ibadan Region, prepared by:  Department of Geography         D15406
University of Ibadan, April 1982



- 126 -
ANNEX 5-1
Pago 2 of 3
Ref. No.                                                           PFl. No.
K.      Ibadan Infrastructure Development Project                   D18998
Identification Mission - Solid Waste Component,
prepared bys L, Moore, May 1984 (Office Report)
L.      Ibadan Urban Drainage and Flood Control Component.          D15411
prepared bys Hnk-oning July 1987
M.      Ibadan Drainage Component, Photographic Impre.sions,        D18999
prepared by: Haskoning June 1987
N.      lbadeoz - Itnstitutiorva.  Strengthening & Administrative,    D1S406
Financial & Technical Services Improvement, prepared
by: The Swedish Team, July 1987
0.      lbadan Solid Waste Manatement Project preparation            D19003
Mission. B-T-O Memorandum Prepared bys Sandra
Cointreau (Consultant), March 1987
P.      Ibadan Urban Project, Institutional Considerations           D19000
Report, prepared by: A.R.A. Consultants, Murray Glow,
July 1987
Q.      Ibadan Water Supply, prepared by* B. Heine and               D19001
A. Sweetnam, July 1987
R.      Ibadan Storm Drainage Component Part 1, including            D19002
Annex A (Strip Plans) prepared by:  Haskoning, DUV,         A,B & C
Konsadem and Badafash, June 1988
S.      Solid Wastes Component Preliminary Design, prepared          D3.9004
by: Haskoning, DVH and Konsadem, June 1988
T.      Socio-econamic Survey of Ibadan City prepared by:            D19005
NISER, June 1988
U.      Ibadan Urban Renewal Project Preliminary Design              D19006
Report, prepared by: Osot Assoc., June 1988
V.      Community Improvamernt Program. Proposals for                D19007
Community Participation, Implementation,
Maintenance, Finance and Cost Recovery, prepared
by: University of Ibadan, June 1988
W.      Preliminary Physical Planning Proposa3s  for Agugu.          D19008
Mokola & Yemetu Study Areas, prepared by: I.MHP.A.,
June 1988



- 127 -
ANNEX 5- 1
Page 3 of 3
R4f. No tile No
X.      Civil Service Training School Ibadan - 1988 Course          D19009
Calendar
Y.      Upgrading of Core Areas (Report on Three Selected           D19010
Areas in Oyo), prepared by: Oyo Local Planning
Authority. June 1988
Z.      Preliminary Report on Upgrading of Thre* Selected           D19011
Areas in OSOGRO, p"apared 'rte  05$0G0 Local
Planning Authority, June 1988
AA.     PrelLminary Report on I1*sa prepared by: Tlesa              019012
Local Planing Authority. June 1988
BB.     Three Selected Areas in 1le-If*, prepared by:               D19013
Oranmiyan Local Planning Authority, June 1988
CC.     Upgrading of Core Area (A Report oan Two Areas in           DI9014
Saki), prepared by: IPtDAPO Local Planning Authority,
June 1988
DD.     Upgrading of Core Area (Preliminary Report on the           D19015
Three Selected Areas in OGBOMOSO), prepared by:
OGBOMOSO Local Planning Authority, June 24, 1988
Et.     Preliminary Plans for Upgrading in Priority Towns,          D19016
June 1988
iFF.    Oyo State Urban Project Rating Valuation Component          D19008
Report, prepared by: 1. P. Sanderson, July 1988
GG.     ID? Projoct Guidelines                                       D00154
JIk.    IDF Policy Statement                                         D00964
II.     Oyo State Urban Project State & Local Government             D19273
Finances, prepared by: J. Bahal, September 1988
JJ.     Oyo State Urban Project Economic Analysis                    D19272
prepared by: B. Ueno, September 1988
KK.     Ibadan Traffic & Transport Component Tech. Note              D19274
on Preliminary Economic Evaluation, prepared by:
J. Cracknell, July 1988



NIGERIA
OYO STATE URBAN PROJECT
COMMUNITY IMPROVEMENT AREAS IN IBADAN
MOKOLA, YEMETU, AND AGUGU
LAND USE:             -  -    Ri-  od Shr0            Woler Sopply
td tiol                     Pio..y DiWi.i
EWZi Coo|eoPk olk            -                              Mj  T-
-                              -o,OOOR,Co.              --- S--  Boies
Ploces of W-,'ohip                                     ot-rootionol Bo.. daria.
-1 000 - 1,0,OX0
200.001 - 500.000
I0  "- 20(
/ >  t~~~~ ,                     ; ~MOKOLA
KWARA 5TATE                .NIERIA
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~                       NIGERIAIER  I .       
YEMETU~~ ~                                                           ~         ~~~~ [/ /~ /GG
KWAIRA
~~~~~ k ~~~~~~~~~~~~STATE
-Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y (/k.                   t
a  ONDO
OGIJN STATE                               STATE
0                S0p010
[ 6               00D 0010100
*YEMETU                                                                                   AGUGU
F1.1~~~~~~~~~
I                              , 
-I-       /               N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
-'9Of
f ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~4 



NIGERIA
OYO STATE URBAN PROJECT
hlETROPOLITAN IBADAN AND
LOCATIONS OF MAJOR PROJECT COMPONENTS                                                    z
r                                                   \                                NIGERIA
0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
L. G_                               ____ '.  PO \g teOdktOtlon)
\                X               i-fe  °;ct    >                                            ,e,e
A K f N Y E t E   X   <    |                 \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R. -gep P1., 2i lp.o~at (lied
z~~~~~~~~~~~~
X 0- f~~~~~~~~~~ai                                                              AGUGUX
GOVE2N)/.                                                  c\  
A _t dsin Siftn,,\/  nd 
.   ObRjte   \\11l  0                                       /t////PRO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRJECT 
{~~~~                             ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~ - - -     Rber Ogu.,w Ph-s I Imp-msb (pesybp6d
,-r  >                  <                     @ * * e s ~~~~~~~~~~~~Ri.er Og-po Ph-e 2 Imp--fmets (rnd)
/    /  \                 /                          o o o o o~~~~~~~~~~...   Ri-r Ogmpa Phie 2 Impoxnt (-Ibli-
jBX  |   \              J                                    Da~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XSTING,
r4s D*    _                                S z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Roilrood
5 fi ~~~ \'~~) 5> raina ~~~Rws-   d St-s
Ol ( / ro*_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Etbnt  f Ur-i-miti   (I1°of)
6  p<   r*r  Zxeprreolodig 0
B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z P- re.w                                              F - btI. oudies                 1
2
a                                                                                                                                      I{D~~~~~~T



