Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                          JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
                                   RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 3238 UNI
                     Japanese Grant Agreement
                     (Oyo State Urban Project)
                              between
                    FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                  as Administrator of Grant Funds
                          provided by the
                        GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN
                        Dated July 27, 1990
                     JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT,  dated July 27,  1990,  between FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF
NIGERIA  (the Recipient)  and the  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as Administrator
(the Administrator) of grant funds provided by the GOVERNMENT OF
JAPAN (Japan).
      WHEREAS:  (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated June 3,
1987, between Japan ant the Bank, Japan has requested the Bank, and
the Bank has agreed, to administer grant funds to be made available
by Japan for the financing of certain programs ant projects
supported by the Bank in accordance with the provisions of such
letter agreement;
      WHEREAS: (B) the Recipient has requested ant Japan has agreed
to make available to the Recipient a grant (the Grant) out of said
grant funds to finance the cost of carrying out the technical
assistance  described in Schedule  2  to  this Agreement  (the
Technical Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter set
forth;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.0l. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank,  dated January 1,  1985  (the
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement,
subject, however, to the following modifications thereto:
      (a)   the term "Bank" wherever used in the General Conditions,
other than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof, means the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting as
Administrator of the Grant pursuant to  the  letter agreement
between Japan and the Bank referred to in Recital (A) of this
Agreement, except that in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also
include the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
acting in its own capacity;
      (b)   the term "Borrower" wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the Recipient;
      (c)   the term "loan Agreement" wherever used in the General
Conditions, means this Agreement;
      (d)   the term "Loan" wherever used in the General Conditions
means the Grant;
      (e)    the term "loan Account" wherever used in the General
Conditions, shall be amended to read the Grant Account;
      (f)   the term "Project" wherever used in the General Condi-
tions, means the technical assistance described in Schedule 2  to
this Agreement;
      (g)   Section 4.01. shall be modified to read:
            "Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in
      yen; provided, however, that if the expenditures to be
      financed out of the proceeds of the Grant have been paid or
      are payable in another currency,  the Administrator shall, at
      the request of the Recipient, purchase such currency with the
      proceeds of such withdrawal.";
      (h)   Sections 2.01 (5),  (7),  (12),  (13),  (14),  (15),
(16), (17) and (19),  3.02,  3.03,  3.04,  3.05, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04,
4.05, 4.06, 4.07, 4.08, 4.10,  6.02 (a)(i),  6.02 (g),  6.02 (h),
6.05, 6.07, 7.01, 8.01 (a), 9.01 (b), 9.02, 9.03, 10.02, 12.01,
12.02, 12.03, 12.04 and 12.05 are deleted;
      (i)   The  second and third sentences  of Section 4.09  are
deleted; and
      (j)   All references to "the Guarantor" wherever such term is
used in the General Conditions, shall not apply to this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement,  unless  the
context otherwise requires,  the several  terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth; and the terms "yen" and "Y"
mean the currency of Japan.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Grant
      Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees  to extend to  the
Recipient,  on  eke  terms  and conditions herein set forth or
referred in,  the Grant in an amount of four hundred nine million
five hundred thousand Yen (Y494.500.000).
      Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdraw I from
the Grant Account by Oyo State on behalf of the Recipient in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
Page  3
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Recipient and the Administrator.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1992, or
such later date  as  the Administrator  shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later
date.
                            ARTICLE lII
               Execution of the Technical Assistance
      Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient shall carry out the Technical
Assistance through the Project Coordination Unit of the Oyo State
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Technical Assistance.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and, except as the Recipient and the Administrator
shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry out the Technical
Assistance in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02.  In order to assist the Recipient in carrying
out the Technical Assistance,  the Recipient shall through Oyo State
employ consultants whose qualifications,  experience  and terms and
conditions  of employment are  satisfactory  to  the Administrator.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Administrator, on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the
Administrator in August 1981.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices  eke operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of the Technical Assistance of the
departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying
out the technical Assistance or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Recipient shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a)  of this Section for each fiscal
                  year audited,  in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied,  by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Administrator;
            (ii)  furnish to the Administrator as soon as
                  available, but in any case not later than four
                  months after the end of each such year, the
                  report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as  the  Administrator
                  shall  have  reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Administrator such other
                  information concerning said records and accounts
                  and the audit thereof as the Administrator shall
                  from time to time reasonably request.
                            ARTICLE IV
                      Effective; Termination
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon it's
execution by the parties hereto.
      Section 4.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until
Page  4
the Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement
have fulfilled their obligations hereunder.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Representation; Transfer of
                      Rights ant Obligations
      Section  5.01.  The  Minister  of  Finance  and  Economic
Development of the Recipient shall be the representative of the
Recipient  for  the purposes  of Section 11.03  of the General
Conditions.
      Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Recipient:
            The Honourable Minister
            Federal Ministry of Finance
              and Economic Development
            P.M.B. 12591
            Federal Secretariat, Ikoyi
            Lagos, Nigeria
            Cable address:                      Telex:
                  FEDMINFIN                       21248 (ITT)
                  Lagos
      For the Administrator:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                      Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                   64145 (WUI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in eke District of Columbia, United
States of America,  as of the day and year first above written.
                  FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                  By /s/ Chief Olu Falae
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  as Administrator of the Grant
                  By /s/ Edwin Lim
                                                          Director
                                         Western Africa Department
                            SCHEDULE 1
Page  5
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the
amount of the Grant to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Grant Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category                    Yen)           to be Financed
(1) Consultants'             400,000,000        100%
    services
(2) Training                  20,000,000        100%
(3) Office equip-             24,500,000        100% of foreign
    ment, materials                             expenditures and
    and vehicles                                75% of local
                                                expenditures
(4) Unallocated               50,000,000
                             ___________
         TOTAL               494,500,000
                             ===========
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement or for goods not eligible under
this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                   Description of Technical Assistance
      The Technical Assistance is intended to assist in the preparation of
the proposed Oyo State Urban Project and shall include:
A.    Detailed Engineering Design
      (1)   detailed engineering design including field surveys and
            investigation, and preparation of tender documents for the
            storm drainage and flood control works of the Ogunpa Stream and
            its tributaries ln the city of Ibadan; and
      (2)   detailed engineering design including field surveys and
            investigations, and preparation of tender documents for solid
            waste management facilities  (central offices, workshops,
            transfer stations, landfill sites), vehicles and equipment for
            solid waste operations,  and the rehabilitation of existing
            landfill sites in the city of Ibadan.
B.    Operation Support
      (1)   Technical Assistance for the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in
            the areas of training (including procurement), engineering and
            accounting and accounting (including financial management and
            planning);
      (2)   Specialist technical assistance, advice, and operational
            support  (including staff training)  for Oyo  State
            Environmental Protection Commission (EPC)  for improved
            environmental  sanitation,  environmental planning, monitoring,
            coordination and management activities by EPC in Oyo State;
      (3)   Support to the Town Planning Department of Oyo State Ministry
            of Lands,  Housing and Surveys  to provide improved planning
            coordination,  carry out review of planning practices and
            legislation,  and assist local governments with  eke
            preparation of area structure plans; and
Page  6
      (4)   Specialist  support and training for the Oyo  State Department
            of Local Government in the area of tenement rating and
            valuation, and enhanced resource mobilization so as to assist
            local governments in Oyo State.
C.    Studies
      (1)   Preparation of a State transport planning and a State highway
            maintenance study for, and under the direction of, the Oyo
            State Ministry of Works and Transport.
      (2)   Project  identification,  preparation and feasibility studies
            in local government areas of Oyo State.
                               SCHEDULE 3
                         Implementation Program
1.    The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of the Oyo State Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning (MFEP) shall be responsible for the
implementation of the Technical Assistance.
2.    In order to assist PCU in the implementation of the Technical
Assistance and the Project, MFEP shall ensure that engineering and
accounting support for PCU are provided no later than January 15, 1990.
3.    Unless otherwise agreed to by the Administrator, Oyo State shall
ensure the consultants for the detailed engineering design (Part A of
Schedule 2) are appointed no later than January 15, 1990.
