Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6715-HA
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TO THE
MEMORANDllM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEV'ELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUJTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.3 MILLION
(EQUIIVALENT TO IIS$ 12 MILLION)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR A
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
AUGlUST 14, 1996



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of June 30. 1996)
Currency Unit    Haitian Gourde (G)
US$1.00         G15.6
SDR1.00         US$1.38
FISCAL YEAR
October I to September 30
ABBREVIATIONS
AGD                   Customs Administration
ASYCUDA               Customiis Information System
CIDA                  Canadian International Development Agency
DGI                   Tax Administration
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
EC                    European Commission
EERP                  Emergency Economic Recovery Program
ERC                   Economic Recovery Credit
FY                    Fiscal Year
GDP                   Gross Domestic Product
GNP                   Gross National Product
HRIS                  Human Resources Information Systems
HRMS                  Human Resources Management Systems
IBRD                  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                   International Competitive Bidding
IDA                   International Development Association
IDB                   Inter-American Development Bank-
IFC                   International Finance Corporation
IMF                   Internationlal Monetarv Fund
LIB                   Limited International Bidding
LTU                   Large Taxpayers Unit
PSMAP                 Public Sector Modernization Action Plan
SEDU                  State-ownned Enterprises Democratization Unit
SOE                   Statemenlt of Expenditures
TA                    Technical Assistance
TAP                   Teclmical Assistance Project
UNCTAD                United Nations Conference for Trade and Development
UNDP                  United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF                United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
USAID                 U.S. Agenicy for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HAITI
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    Republic of Haiti
Implementing Agency:         Office of the Prime Minister, Technical Secretariat for Private Sector
Participation in Public Enterprises, Ministry of Finance , Ministry of
Planning, and Cour des Comptes
IDA Amount:                  SDR8.3 million (US$12 million equivalent)
Terms:                       Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:              0.50 percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
Fiinancing Plan:             See Schedule A
Poverty Category:            Not applicable
Net Present Value:           Not applicable
Appraisal Report:            Not applicable. Technical Annex No. T-6715-HA
Project ID) No.:             HT-PA-41971
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherAise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



...............................................................................  N v l d     N O ISIA dd S   : ' L D S
... .....nq aNN NV'd oDNIV{l1  :z H1nFIHDS
6Z.                                                           SLID OW     NOll,VlNMN2H-NdWj (j) I ncuuns
LZ                 .SNOLVDJcNI IDV&I INMNdO13HAH[ :(9) I     IDns
.                  .                            -SIIIAILDV lDaOMd kHN 40 XNIVl :(V) t  (I1(1311 IDS
l i ................................   ............   ...   -.,Vo..o ,y1,l (J
U.LzIJ*I  ' '  E'''  S'I  y(
61..... V..........         .O.I.....                           .Id..)
61 .NOIIVIN3I"dIdT\I CIN  NOIIV?IISINhC[V .I.DHfO1Nd :q NOI.Lr)31S
Wt ................................                                    ..... 9"WaV14jI a,vyslso>9 l 1,s.rOHd
I ..uauodwoj uolzlWjuadadudil i9oalij 9
. .luauodwo) juatudoladnsaaioj  31 d.4idlld 't
0ulaiS ..uawas..                    .    .        ..    5'.1.101SO  uvw7H i
.I  -'uawt?uvJ4Tn 21tiIipuadYX¶ J
.                                                                                     zuleojaj xLJ fjiiado~j, t
.......... .                      ........ ..   .                  '        lllluoDyxOd  V NOdIj 3S
SINGINOD Jo 31HVI
XINNIV 1VDINH331
13rOHd 3JNVISISSV rIV3INH391 UNIODJS
LLIVH



I



HAITI
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Project Description, Administration and Implementation
SECTION A: PROJECT DESCRIPTION
BACKGROUND
1.    The Government of Haiti is facing severe challenges: debilitated institutions, large macro-
economic imbalances, depleted productive assets, a dilapidated infrastructure, pervasive poverty
and a dilapidated environment. Between 1992-94, the country's economic performance and
social indicators worsened dramatically, accentuating the downward trend of the 1980s.
Following the return to constitutional rule, the Government of Prime Minister Smarck Michel
under President Aristide prepared an Emergency Economic Recovery Program (EERP) which
received the strong support of the international donor community and entered into an IMF Stand-
by Arrangement for the Haitian fiscal year 1994/95. Economic performance remained broadly
within its parameters. Real GDP growth amounted to about 4.5 percent, consumer price inflation
declined from 52 percent to 17 percent, and the gourde recovered from over G20 per dollar
during the embargo to G14.5 per dollar by end-September 1995.
2.    Following a deterioration in economic performance in the first half of 1995/96, a new
Government under President Preval has resumed the economic reform effort. The Government, in
cooperation with IMF and IDA, has prepared its 1995/96-98/99 Policy Framework Paper
outlining a comprehensive economic reform program, and negotiated an Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF) with the IMF. The program will focus on: public finances, civil
service reform, private sector participation in public enterprises, trade liberalization and financial
sector reform. To assist in designing and carrying out some of these reforms, the Government has
requested IDA support through a Second Economic Recovery Credit (ERC II) and the proposed
TAP II.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.    The proposed TAP II will (i) strengthen the Haitian Government's capacity to design and
implement priority policy reforms, to be supported by the ERC II, in the areas of public finances
and privatization; and (ii) provide the analytical base for further structural adjustment measures
with focus on public sector modernization, which would be implemented over the next several
years. To this end, and in coordination with other donors, the TAP II will provide complementary



- 2 -                        Technical Annex
finance for consultants, goods and services, including training and dissemination of information to
the public, and incremental operating costs.
4.    The proposed project will provide the Government with the means and information to
advance its economic reform program and sustain the actions envisioned under the ERC II. It
complements technical assistance by other donors, in particular by IDB, which is preparing
parallel technical assistance components addressing tax and customs administrations, privatization
and financial sector reform.
5.    Specifically, the TAP II amounts to US$12.0 million, including US$0.6 million of
contingencies, and will cover the areas of public finances, private sector development and public
sector modernization through the following components, which are described in more detail
below: (i) Property Tax Reform Component (US$1.4 Million); (ii) Expenditure Management
Component (US$3.3 Million); (iii) Human Resources Management System Component (US$1.0
Million); (iv) Private Sector Development Component (US$3.0 Million); (v) Public Sector
Modernization Component (US$1. I Million); and (vi) Project Implementation Component
(US$1.6 Million).



- 3 -                         Technical Annex
1. PROPERTY TAX REFORM
Issues
6.    Haiti has one of the lowest revenue to GDP ratio in the world. From 8% in 1991, this
ratio declined to about 3% in 1994. This poor performance can be essentially attributed to a
deterioration of tax and customs administrations and a narrow tax base on account of generous
exemptions granted under the investment code and related legislation. In addition, there is a need
to simplify the tax system and reduce its distortionary effects. A further issue, which will gain
importance in the context of the Government's decentralization effort, is the negligible
contribution by property taxes, which amount to less than 0.1 percent of GDP.
7.    Tax and Customs Administration. The tax (DGI) and customs (AGD) administrations
are extremely weak. They lack qualified staff, are badly equipped, and have low salaries which
affect motivation and invite corruption.  Most work is carried out manually, facilities are
outdated, material supplies and vehicles limited, and working conditions poor. Coordination
within and between the two agencies is weak. DGI's approach toward revenue collection is
essentially passive: staff are concentrated in downtown Port-au-Prince, and rarely undertake
verification in the field. There is little attempt to cross-validate available information about the
tax base. In part, resources are diverted to administer nuisance taxes, whereas follow-up on key
taxes is neglected. AGD activities are also heavily concentrated in Port-au-Prince. Processing of
imports is cumbersome, and hampered by physical constraints and manual accounting. Customs
documents show gross inconsistencies in classification and evaluation of imports. Treatment of
assumed franchises and exemptions appears highly arbitrary. Customs control at the important
ports outside Port-au-Prince is ineffective, with even basic equipment like telephone lines lacking,
and controls abandoned_after office hours. Customs controls at the Port-au-Prince and Cap
Haitien airports suffer from similar problems.
8.    Fiscal Incentives and the Investment Code.  Haiti's investment code stipulates an
extremely generous and difficult to administer set of fiscal incentives. It includes three regimes
applicable to different types of enterprises, which grant decreasing exemptions from income taxes
and import duties over a period of up to 15 years. The investment code also includes regulations
which unduly restrict and distort investment decisions by domestic and foreign investors. In
addition to fiscal incentives, franchises and exemptions are granted on a discretionary basis to
enterprises and virtually all non-governmental organizations.  The benefits of granting these
incentives and exemptions are likely to be marginal to individual recipients, whereas the foregoing
revenue is probably considerable.
9.    Tax Structure and Rates.  Some features of  Haiti's tax structure exacerbate the
difficulties of a weak administration and introduce disincentives to private sector development.
These include a large number of tax brackets and lack of integration for taxes on income and
profits; a complex system of specific excise duties; a dual rate structure and a broad range of
exemptions for the value-added tax; and a proliferation of nuisance taxes.



- 4 -                        Technical Annex
10.   Property Tax Administration. Currently, revenue from taxation of property -- the main
source of income for municipalities -- is negligible. Although there is strong potential to enhance
revenue collection, little has been done to take advantage of this revenue source. Even Port-au-
Prince, which covers the major part of the taxable base, has no proper land registry; and whatever
records are available, are poorly maintained. There has been no reevaluation of property values in
the last ten years, and there are no established criteria for evaluating property. Many of the new
constructions are not registered with the DGI. The situation is even worse in other towns and
rural areas.
The Government's Reform Program
11.   The Government has recognized the need for strengthening fiscal performance and is
committed to initiate reforms to increase tax yields in a sustainable manner and achieve a more
buoyant tax system while facilitating private sector development. To this end, the Government is
determined to improving revenue collection, broaden the tax base, and reduce the distortionary
effect of the tax system. In particular, its reform program includes: (i) strengthening tax and
customs administrations through establishing a large tax payers unit (LTU), upgrading facilities
and equipment, streamlining processes and providing staff training; (ii) reducing or eliminating
exemptions and deductions; and (iii) simplifying the tax system. By implementing these measures,
the Government expects to increase revenues to the level of 8 percent of GDP attained in 1991.
12.   To assist the Government in achieving its objectives, IDB, IMiF, and UNDP have agreed
to provide significant technical assistance to DGI. A joint US$1.4 million IMF and UNDP project
component focuses on providing fiscal advice and establishing the LTU. The terms of reference
for the LTU are to: (i) identify and register large tax payers, (ii) design and implement procedures
for assessing and collecting taxes from large tax payers; and (iii) provide training for DGI staff.
This project component includes the review of key taxes and the formulation of a reform
proposal. A US$1.9 million IDB project attempts to generalize the experience of the LTU and
also to implement an information system for the whole DGI. There is further the possibility that
some funding for equipment under a Japanese grant of US$5 million could be allocated to finance
computer equipment in DGI.
13.   In customs administration, CIDA, EC, UNCTAD, UNDP, and USAID intend to finance a
project focusing on the implementation of UNCTAD's computerized customs information
management system (ASYCUDA) in major ports. An initial budget proposal of US$2. I million
has been submitted to the relevant agencies to provide training in the use of a new customs
declaration form and to computerize data collection. The project will also create four regional customs
offices at Port-au-Prince, Cap-Haitien, Gonaives, and Petit-Goave. In addition, IDB is assisting with a
US$1 .1 million project component, co-financed by Switzerland, to provide training and equipment.



- 5 -                         Technical Annex
Proposed Assistance under the TAP In
14.   To support the Government's reform program, the property tax reform component of the
TAP II will finance the following activities: (i) reviewing the system of property taxation; (ii)
strengthening the property tax administration, including training; and (iii) creating a land registry
in Port-au-Prince and other major urban centers.
15.   System of Property Taxation (US$0.10 Million). The TAP II will finance consultancy
services to review the system of property taxation to improve buoyancy, equity and cost-
effectiveness. There are various fees related to owning properties. The study will examine the
need to rationalize and consolidate these fees.
16.   Property Tax Administration (US$0.70 Million). The TAP II will finance consultancy
services, equipment and training to strengthen the property tax administration within DGI. This
sub-component will include: (i) reviewing current institutional arrangements of property tax
administration and recommending appropriate changes; (ii) implementing information
management systems (iii) providing other relevant equipment and vehicles; (iv) designing and
implementing an appraisal system that will facilitate rapid assessment and valuation of properties
and their equitable treatment; and (vi) providing training in areas such as field assessment and
valuation, mass appraisal techniques, use of computer systems, enforcement procedures, and audit
and control.
17.   Land Registry (US$0.60 Million). The TAP II will finance the preparatory work and
cartography required to establish a land registry of properties in Port-au-Prince and other major
urban centers.
2. EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT
Issues
18.   Public expenditure management in Haiti suffers from  a range of structural and
administrative problems which limits the impact of the scarce domestic resources and generous
but disparate foreign assistance. Missions by IMF and IDA, among others, have pointed to the
following problems:
* the absence of a consistent long-term macro and fiscal planning framework may result
in a serious imbalance between recurrent and capital expenditures threatening the
sustainability of investment;
* the independent budgeting and accounting of recurrent and capital expenditures,
together with the exclusion of most of the externally funded capital expenditures from



- 6 -                        Technical Annex
the budget further impedes design and implementation of a sustainable government
expenditure program;
*  the lack of clearly defined responsibilities and procedures regarding external assistance
constitutes a bottleneck in the utilization of assistance offered;
*  the budgeting procedures do not facilitate a rational identification of priorities;
*  the rudimentary budget classifications make it difficult to analyze the effectiveness of
public spending in relation to any government development objectives.
*  the existing accounting framework is not conducive to effective management of
government resources;
*  there is no proper bank reconciliation and the amount of cash available to the
Government cannot be determined;
*  the system of pre-audits constitutes a serious bottleneck in the execution of the budget
without necessarily preventing improprieties;
*  there is no internal audit, and external audit is weak;
*  the present payment system is exceedingly slow and cumbersome, contributing to the
emergence of comples courants and other special accounts, which -- while facilitating
close to 50 percent of government expenditures -- effectively escape the established,
already weak control mechanisms;
a  the current accounting system does not provide a basis for proper management of
assets and liabilities, causing problems with payment discipline, in particular since the
free-standing computerized debt management system has ceased to function; and
*  the existing system  does not deliver any quantitative or qualitative information
required for effective macroeconomic management.
Government's Reform Program and Recommendations
19.   The Government is acutely aware of the shortcoming of existing systems and routines,
and there are several donors that have expressed an interest in assisting in the strengthening of
these very core functions of Government. A joint IMF and UNDP project allocates US$0.6
million to expenditure management in the Ministry of Finance. U.NDP is also providing US$1.0
million to strengthen the Ministry of Planning, and preparing a follow-up project for the Cellule
d'Apui du Pilotage in the Ministry of Planning, which would deepen support in four areas: (i)
identification of strategic projects; (ii) establishment of an information system on the external
assistance to Haiti; (iii) strengthening of the programming and coordinating capacity; and (iv)
strengthening program and project monitoring. This follow-up project is still at the preparation
stage and the exact financing sources and the detailed budget remains to be defined. There is
further the possibility that some funding for equipment under a Japanese grant of US$5 million
could be allocated to finance computer equipment in the Ministry of Finance. Another donor



-7-                          Technical Annex
which has expressed strong interest in the general area of government financial management is
USAID. However, it has not yet prepared any concrete project proposal.
20.   It is imperative that these assistance efforts be very closely coordinated in order to avoid
duplication of efforts and establish a truly integrated financial management system. To this end,
efforts have been made to ensure complementarity and a rational division of labor between, in the
first instance, the INIF/UNDP project and the IDA support outlined below.
21.   The key to achieving integration will be a common framework for information
management. It has therefore been agreed that the selection and development of the required
software be executed under one unified direction. The information management component will
thus cover data processing pertaining to macro-planning, project preparation and monitoring,
donor coordination, human resources management, budgeting, tax administration, budget
execution, payroll and pension management, accounting, payments, and cash, debt and asset
management.
22.   The very core of the integrated system will be the accounting system. Other systems
would either be direct subsystems to the general ledger -- for example, payroll preparation and
debt management -- or linked to the accounts through shared data -- for example, human
resources information and project preparation.
23.   To facilitate coordination of donor assistance, the information management component
will serve as the foundation and the vehicle by which area specific reforms could be implemented.
Given the longer-term nature of support aiming at a radical improvement of information
management, the comparative strengths of the respective organizations and the degree of freedom
of each one to choose its implementation approach, it has been agreed that the primary funding
partner for the Government for the information management software will be IDA.
24.   Equipment and policy advice regarding taxation will be covered to a large extent by IDB
and IMF/UNDP. Acquisition of hardware in this area, however, will be closely coordinated with
the information technology firm contracted under the TAP II. A similar approach will be taken
for government finance statistics, which is also covered by the IMF/UNDP project. In this area,
the information technology firm will also be responsible for the purchase and development of
suitable software funded under the TAP II. The procurement of personal computers for other
functions of the Ministry of Finance will be the covered by the TAP II, possibly supported by
Japanese grant funds. UNDP will provide the necessary personal computers for the Ministry of
Planning. Servers and networking serving the overall Ministries of Finance and Planning will be
the responsibility of the TAP II.
25.   Two crucial areas not covered by other donors, auditing and debt management, will also
be covered by the TAP II. The TAP II will further provide technical assistance in the area of
expenditure management with a focus on accounting. This assistance will be closely coordinated
with that of the IMF/iUNDP project which would focus more on budgeting issues. The picture
above seeks to describe the approach taken to donor coordination and funding for expenditure
management.



- 8 -                         Technical Annex
Expenditure Management: Structure and Financing
.~~~~~ E~~C  Non-IA
.. . . .  ... .. .  '.' ..'S  ''    .'.0   m                .'f..S'f.. 'ff' .....
.....a..m. ......   ..*.'*               ~U
Proposed Assistance under TAP II
26. To support the Government's reform program, the expenditure management component
of the TAP II will finance the following activities: (i) implementing a core integrated financial
management system; (ii) reforming the accounting framework; (iii) reforming auditing practices
and legislation; (iv) strengthening debt and asset management; and (v) providing training
pertaining to all areas of expenditure management.
27.   Integrated Financial Management System  (US$1.16 Million).   The TAP II will
finance an integrated financial management system, the core of which will be a modern system of
government accounting. The system will build on Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and
will be able to also mimic the present budgetary accounting as long as duplicate records of public
expenditure are kept in the current format by the spending agencies. At a later stage, accounting
routines at the spending agencies will be computerized and in the process upgraded to modern
accounting standards. Such a gradual approach will allow to maintain financial control and ensure
continuity in the financial statistics.
28.   The central accounting system will be capable of recording payments executed by third
parties, most notably donors, on behalf of the Government. An integral part of the central
accounting system would be sub-systems for budgeting and budget execution control, debt
management and for payroll management. The payroll system, in turn, will be linked to the
human resources information system to ensure the correctness of the payroll. A further module
linked to the core accounting system will cover project information on the different steps in the
project cycle. The project will finance a public investment expert to assist the Government in
managing the public sector investment program. Finally, the integrated financial management
system will also cover tax administration which will be developed as a sub-ledger to the
accounting system.



- 9 -                        Technical Annex
29.   For the purchase and development of the information system,  IDA will finance a
competitively awarded, two-year renewable contract with a software consultancy firm with
relevant international experience. The firm will be expected to seek cooperation with a local
Haitian partner in order to guarantee future support of the system. The firm will be responsible for
the installation of the central servers and the necessary networking for the building of the
Ministries of Finance and Planning, including network cards etc.. If necessary, the firm will also
coordinate the rehabilitation of the electrical wiring of the building and if necessary the installation
of generators and other electrical backup systems. It is expected that the same firm would be
contracted for the purchase and development of the human resources information system. The
latter component is, however, budgeted separately and is not included in the expenditure
management component. To the extent possible, the policy will be to use software commercially
available. Where this is not feasible, possible economies of scale in development would be
exploited by coordinating with similar IDA financed projects in Nicaragua and Guatemala.
30.   Expenditure Management and Accounting (US$1.1 Million). This sub-component
will, in close coordination with the work of the IMF/UNDP project in budgeting, provide a long-
term accounting advisor and other technical assistance to the Ministries of Finance and Planning
with the objective to thoroughly modernize the central government expenditure management and
accounting framework, including for public sector investment management.  One of the
responsibilities of the proposed technical assistance will be to coordinate the preparation of the
specifications for the integrated financial management system. The accounting advisor will also
coordinate the training in accounting. This training will be a combination of in-country and
overseas training as well as study tours to relevant public administrations in the Americas and
Europe.
31.   Auditing (US$0.70 Million). This sub-component will benefit the Ministry of Finance
and the Cour des comptes ( the national auditing office). It will provide long-term advisors in
internal (18 months) and external (18 months) auditing, including performance auditing. Short-
term expertise will be provided to review the legislative framework for auditing, with a view to
replace pre-auditing requirements with ex post auditing. Funds will also be made available for
in-country and overseas training as well as for study tours by officials to national auditing offices
in selected countries. In addition, training funds will be allocated to finance fellowships with well-
established national audit offices.
32.   Debt and Asset Management (US$0.34 Million).  This sub-component will assist the
Government in debt and asset management through financing of: (i) international expertise for a
total of twelve months over the next three years; (ii) purchase of personal computers to be used
specifically for debt and asset management; (iii) training through established IDB, IME or IDA
programs, for four persons for three weeks each for the next three years; and (iv) training by way
of local seminars, at the pace of two in the first year and one in each of the following two years.
The cost for procuring and developing software for debt management is included in the integrated
financial management system sub-component.
33.   Implementation Format for Accounting and Debt Management Sub-Components.
For the execution of the support to accounting and debt management, IDA will finance a



- 10 -                          Technical Annex
competitively awarded, two-year contract with a well reputed management consulting firm with
relevant international experience. The contracted firm will be encouraged to collaborate with a
Haitian firm to build up professional capacity outside as well as inside the public administration.
34.   Training pertaining to Expenditure Management. Included in the sub-components
described above is funding for formal training amounting to US$0.38 million in all areas
pertaining to expenditure management. The training in all sub-components will comprise in-
country and overseas training as well as study tours.
3. HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Issues
35.   One of the fundamental issues in governance is the Government's capacity to establish,
manage, legalize and monitor an efficient civil service. Currently, the civil service in Haiti is afflicted by
weak financial management, inadequate infornation management, and non-enforced rules and
regulations. There is a complete vacuum in the monitoring and control of personnel. The high
concentration of civil servants in low level positions affects the quality of service delivery, and the
predisposition to work in the capital is detrimental to the functioning of the public sector in the rural
regions and other major agglomerations.
36.   The budgetary allocation for recurrent expenditures is considerably unbalanced. For the fiscal
year 1994/95, the budgetary allocation for personnel expenditures for the approximately 45,000 civil
service positions amounts to more than 70 percent of the total budget allocations for recurrent
expenditures, leaving few resources to carry out operations and maintenance works. Yet, the
remuneration of the average civil servant in December 1994 amounted to only five times the GDP per
capita for 1994, and total personnel expenditures amounted to a moderate 6 percent of GDP. This
indicates that the issue with the wage bill resides with: (i) the scarcity of resources available to
recurrent expenditures as a whole; and (ii) the bottom-heavy structure of the civil service, with more
than two-thirds of positions allocated to unskilled and semi-skilled civil servants.
37.   The management of the payroll file is severely neglected. Even basic data on civil servants --
such as identity, geographical locations, responsibilities, grades -- are not available. There is no link
between the fiscal identity card filed with DGI and the computerized payroll file information. This
allows for fraud, illegal double employment and other abuses.
38.   In addition, contractual employees are often paid outside the budget under the comples
courants. While 47 percent of recurrent expenditures are channeled through these advances, they are
not subject to the same scrutiny as the other spending allocated under budgetary resources, and are
used to cover a variety of expenditures. Accordingly, the Ministry of Finance has not been able to
establish the number of employees who are paid through these special accounts.
39.   Currently, there is no particular central agency which effectively exercises control over humnan
resources management. Rather, each ministry acts independently and controls the management of its



- 11 -                         Technical Annex
personnel. There exists no computerized central file of the civil service employees, and the personnel
files maintained at the line ministries are not computerized and incomplete.
40.   The laws of 1982/83 pertaining to the civil service are extensive, well written and represent an
impressive prototype of civil service legislation. However, the legal and administrative procedures for
civil service administration and regulation as elaborated in the legislation and the financial manual are
not properly followed in practice.
The Government's Reform Program
41.   The Government of Haiti has recognized the need to strengthen its institutional capacity to
improve delivery of public services, taking into account the current fiscal constraints. It has prepared a
short-term civil service reform action plan consistent with the medium-term assistance under the TAP
II. The Government also dismissed, in October 1994, some 1,200 employees who had been added to
the payroll immediately before the Constitutional Government took office. A law for early, voluntary
and involuntary retirement to allow further streamlining of the public service is currently being
discussed by Parliament.
42.   To support the Government's reforrn program, UNDP is financing a US$1 million project to
strengthen the Government's public administration management functions through advice and training.
The US$5 million Public Administration Reform project by USAID also provides a source of funding
for technical assistance in the area of civil service reform. At the same time, the Government has also
expressed the interest in a comprehensive approach to civil service reform. To lay the foundation for
such a comprehensive reform, it has requested IDA assistance to establish a human resources
management system in the context of the TAP II.
Proposed Assistance under the TAP H
43.   To support the Government's reform program, the human resources management systems
component of the TAP II will finance the following activities: (i) conducting a civil service census; (ii)
implementing a human resources information system (HRIS) in the Ministry of Finance; and (iii)
providing training for staff implicated in human resources management.
44.   Civil Service Census (US$0.35 Million). To provide reliable information on the number and
identity of civil servants on the payroll, the TAP II will finance a civil service census. This exercise will
need to be coordinated to cover all ministries and public sector agencies on one day, and will involve
use of laptop computers and a number of census staff.
45.   Human Resources Information System  (US$0.60 Million).  This sub-component will
finance: the implementation of a central HRIS to monitor and control the overall management of
human resources for the central government and public sector agencies, including: (i) reconstruction of
a central civil service file; (ii) a data administrator to set up, coordinate and manage for a period of one



- 12 -                         Technical Annex
to two years the link between the civil service and the payroll file of the integrated financial
management system; and (ii) corresponding computer equipment and accessories.
46.   The IRIS will be used to: (i) inventory and organize existing information on all civil service
and government contractual positions; (ii) cross-check the information against the payroll; (iii)
complete and verify the information based on the civil service census; (iv) identify and address
inconsistencies; and (v) computerize and link the central civil service file with the payroll, fiscal identity
card file, and the retirement files. This, in tum, will enable the Government to make informed decisions
on human resources management and provide a sound base for future civil service reform measures.
47.   Training pertaining to Human Resources Management (US$0.05 Million). This sub-
component wiUl provide computer and management training to take full advantage of the HRIS.
4. PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
Issues
48.   Performance of State-owned Enterprises.  State ownership of a broad range of
enterprises -- including telecommunications, power, ports, financial institutions, manufacturing
enterprises and agribusiness -- has resulted in mismanagement, corruption and very poor
performance. Services are unreliable and of poor quality and operations inefficient, with poor
financial control and substantial over-staffing.
49.   The poor quality of services has undermined private sector development in Haiti and
imposed significant economic and social costs to the country. In the energy sector, no significant
new equipment has been added to the facilities of the public electricity company, while plant up-
keep has deteriorated steadily. The situation at the port of Port-au-Prince is equally serious with
weak management, antiquated equipment and excess labor redundancies leading to bottlenecks
and processing of goods and resulting in the highest tariffs in the Caribbean region.
Telecommunication services are virtually non-existent outside the capital, and Haiti has the lowest
penetration of telephone lines (0.8%) in the Caribbean and Latin America. The call completion
ratio is less than 30% on many routes, and the network is technologically obsolete. To address
these issues will require private sector involvement in management and major infusion of private
capital.
50.   Regulatory  and Legal Framework.  The regulatory framework governing most
infrastructure services is archaic and not adequate for permitting the private sector to play a
greater role. The roles and activities of the regulatory bodies are not clearly defined; in the ports
sector, for example, the publicly owned port-entity is both regulatory body, and owner of the
assets. Market entries have been restricted in several sectors, including power distribution,
telecommunications and specific port services, through monopolies granted to state-owned
enterprises. At sector levels, new frameworks allowing competition and establishing new tariffs
and concessionary policies will need to be introduced to promote private sector participation. In
parallel with its program for private sector participation in management and ownership of public



- 13 -                         Technical Annex
enterprises, the Government will need to strengthen its role in monitoring, regulating, setting
policy standards, and creating enabling conditions for private sector development in areas where
competition is weak.
The Government's Reform Program
51.   To correct the mismanagement of the state-owned enterprises and improve the quality of
services, the Government intends to increase the role of the private sector through its private
sector participation program, which forms a central part of the overall economic reform effort.
This program will be carried out either by allowing private participation in ownership of state-
owned enterprises through joint ventures ("capitalization'), or by introducing private sector
management through concession or management contracts. In view of Haiti's very uneven
distribution of wealth, such a program will need to be carefully implemented to prevent undue
concentration of economic power detrimental to competition. The Government intends to attract
foreign investors, domestic savers and members of the Haitian diaspora through this program. To
enhance the equity dimension of the program, Government intends to distribute its dividend
earnings from the enterprises to local authorities. To assist in the private sector participation
program, Government has engaged the International Finance Corporation (IFC) as advisor
concerning nine key state-owned enterprises (including telecommunications, electricity and ports).
IFC's work is being funded by a US$2 million grant from USAID.
52.   A successful private sector participation program requires institutional arrangements to
manage the implementation of the program in a transparent and consistent fashion. To facilitate
coordination and speed up the program, the Government has established an implementing unit, the
state-owned enterprises democratization unit (SEDU), and a presidential decree formalizing the
role of the unit has been issued in July 1995. The SEDU, headed by a High Commissioner, is
attached to the office of the Prime Minister. The SEDU has been given the mandate to implement
the private sector participation program, with the following key tasks: (i) dissemination of
information on privatization to the public in general; (ii) supervision of passive restructuring
/measures; (iii) evaluation of divestment proposals presented to the unit by financial advisors, and
recommendation on proposed options to be presented to the Government; and (iv) compilation of
an annual report on progress. CIDA has provided a US$0.25 million grant to assist in the initial
establishment of the unit. IDB will channel technical assistance through SEDU to assist in
establishing a regulatory framework and strengthening the regulatory agency for the energy
sector.
Proposed Assistance under the TAP II
53.   To support the Government's reform  program, TAP II will finance the following
activities: (i) maintaining the unit for the implementation of the private sector participation
program (SEDU); (ii) formulating and executing a public information campaign in support of the
private sector participation program; and (iii) implementing facilitating legal and regulatory
reforms to facilitate competition and strengthening of regulatory agencies.



- 14 -                         Technical Annex
54.   State-Owned Enterprise Democratization Unit (US$1.20 Million) The SEDU staff
currently consists only of a High Commissioner and an assistant. Substantial additional technical
skills are needed to create an effective and functioning implementing agency. The TAP II will
provide technical assistance to SEDU in the following areas: (a) long-term and short term
advisors to support SEDU in the implementation of the program; (b) assistance with executing
transactions; and (c) office technology and equipment.
(a)    Long- and Short-Term Advisors (US$0.62 Million). The TAP II will finance one long-
term lead advisor to support the current High Commissioner in all aspects of his work. The lead
advisor will coordinate the work of the other domestic and foreign advisors hired under the TAP
II.  A transactions specialist will be hired to review the modalities for private participation
proposed by the financial intermediaries, and to recommend appropriate strategies to
Government. A long-term local legal advisor will be hired to provide necessary support on legal
issues related to divestment. The unit will also be provided with an environmental specialist.
Sector specialists will be financed as short-term technical advisors to provide support on sector-
specific issues.  Accountants would be recruited as short-term  financial advisors to perform
financial audits on the state-owned enterprises on the divestment list and to assist with preparation
of the divestiture of the smaller enterprises. The lead advisor and the legal advisor would also
contribute to the preparatory work for drafting necessary legislation.
(b)   Expansion of the Private Sector Development Program (US$0.55 Million). The TAP
II will finance preparatory privatization work and transactions advice on divestiture modalities for
state-owned enterprises not currently covered by IFC. This will include financial and operational
audits, preparation of options for private sector participation, and the fixed fee for the investment
advisors to undertake the transactions for four larger enterprises.
(c)    Computer and Office Equipment (US$0.03 Million). The TAP II will finance computers
and office equipment for the SEDU.
55.   Public Information Campaign (US$0.70 Million). The TAP II will finance a full time
public information advisor as well as short term experts to assist in identifying public perceptions
of the private sector participation program, and in developing a communications strategy to
effectively disseminate the proposed private sector participation program.  The proposed
assistance consists of four basic components: (a) design, development and implementation of a
communications strategy; (b) design, production and dissemination of information; (c) supporting
research and development; and (d) preparation of seminars, training and conferences on private
sector participation.
(a)    Communications Strategy (US$0.05 Million). The advisor will develop and implement a
comprehensive communications strategy for the private sector participation program, consisting
of sector, national and international campaigns. The sector and national campaigns will serve to
educate stake-holders and the public at large about the benefits of the program and aim at building
broad-based support. The international campaign will assist in marketing the private sector
participation program and to-be privatized enterprises.



- 15 -                         Technical Annex
(b)   Information Materials (US$0.40 Million) The advisor will be directly responsible for
budgeting, overseeing and coordinating the design, production and dissemination of information
to support the communications strategy through various media, including television, radio and
print.
(c)    Research and Development (US$0.05 Million). The advisor will assess knowledge and
perceptions of the general public and major shareholders regarding the private sector participation
program. The data will be analyzed to evaluate and enhance effectiveness of the components of
the public information campaign. This work will include collection of qualitative and quantitative
data through focus groups and surveys.
(d)   Seminars, Training and Conferences (US$0.20 Million).  The advisor will organize
special events to educate major stakeholders about the private sector participation program. Such
events might include seminars for members of the Parliament, seminars and training programs for
key public officials, and seminars for employees of enterprises participating in the private sector
participation program.
56.   Legal and Regulatory Reforms (US$1.10 Million). The TAP II will finance, in parallel
with the implementation of the private sector participation program for utilities, the preparation of
corresponding reforms in the legal and regulatory environment to facilitate competition and
private sector development. The proposed assistance will include: (a) reviewing the legal and
regulatory framework for the utilities; and (b) strengthening regulatory agencies.
(a)   Legal and Regulatory Framewvork (US$0.45 Million). The TAP II will finance legal and
regulatory reforms in the electricity, telecommunications, maritime ports and airports sectors to
foster private sector development in these sectors. This work will be carried out in cooperation
with sector task-forces that are being formed, including Haitian experts and ministerial
representatives. Regulation covering the entry and exit, pricing, investment and quality standards
will be reviewed by a legal and regulatory reform advisor, and new legislation drafted where
required. Environmental issues will be taken into consideration in the drafting. Where activities
are undertaken by IFC or other investment advisors, the legal advisor will review the work and
coordinate it on behalf of SEDU to ensure consistency across sectors.
(b)   Regulatory Agencies (US$0.65 Million).  The TAP II will finance strengthening
regulatory agencies for the utilities included in the private sector participation program. The
obstacles and the time required to establish functioning regulatory agencies should not be
underestimated in a country which does not have a regulatory tradition, and where regulation can
conflict with powerful vested interests. Accordingly, the regulatory and legal advisor will propose
strategies and implement measures that take into account the current weak implementation
capacity of the regulatory bodies. This work should conform with the sector strategies and
divestiture modalities developed by IFC. The specific activities will include: (i) organizing and
staffing of the regulatory agencies, and procedures; (ii) developing a framework and defining
responsibilities for regulatory agencies that would be effective in the Haitian context; (iii)
preparing twinning arrangements with regulatory agencies in other countries; (iv) providing



- 16 -                          Technical Annex
training in technical and legal aspects of regulations; and (v) supporting the pilot execution of
regulatory functions (shadow management).
5. PUBLIC SECTOR MODERNIZATION
Issues
57.    The public sector in Haiti is very weak, and the challenge facing the Government in improving
its performance is enormous. The objectives of the public sector are not well defined, its structure
anachronistic, its staff demotivated, and its procedures not suited for supporting a modem market-
oriented economy and society. In this context, the Government recognizes that the main issues that it
needs to address include (i) redefining the role of the public sector to better meet the development
needs of the country; (ii) raising the efficiency and effectiveness of the public service in the delivery of
basic services to the public; and (iii) creating an enabling environment for private sector development.
58.    Specifically, public sector modernization evolves around six broad tasks: first, defining clearly
the new role of the public sector, and accordingly reorienting and reducing the scope of public sector
activities; second, improving the quality of the public service, thirat modernizing and integrating
human resources and -fi-nancial management functions; fourth, implementing administrative reforms,
including institutional reordering, and rationalization and simplification of procedures and key tasks;
fifth1, pursuing administrative and financial decentralization and the strengthening of basic municipal
management; and sixth, updating the legal framework governing the operations of the public sector and
its relations to the private sector.
59.    Accomplishing these tasks will be critical for the ability of the public sector to gain legitimacy
and effectively address social concerns and help support private-sector-led growth. While this will be a
long-term effort, it is important to begin laying the foundations for its successful implementation and
initiate key reform measures.
Thte Government's Reform Program
60.    The Government has repeatedly expressed its interest and commitment to initiate a
comprehensive public sector reform. Its main objectives are to (i) strengthen the weak institutional
capacity of the executive, legislative and judicial branches to deliver services; and, thereby, (ii) improve
the living conditions of the Haitian people and reinforce their confidence in a modem, market-oriented
and democratic state.
61.    To support the Government's reform program, UNDP has agreed to launch a US$12 million
project which aims to strengthen executive, legislative and judicial capacities, including through pilot
activities at the municipal level, logistical support for parliament, and technical assistance to the
judiciary. USAID is providing technical assistance through a US$5 million Policy Administrative
Reform (PAR) project, which includes the recruitment of qualified staff for key technical positions.
IDB is supporting decentralization with a US$2. 1 million technical assistance component. At the same



- 17 -                         Technical Annex
time, the Govemment has requested IDA participation in the area of public sector reform, in particular
in the preparation of a public sector modernization action plan (PSMAP), which will provide a
framework and help coordinate the reform activities.  The PSMAP will also serve to lay the
foundations for a proposed Third Economic Recovery Credit, envisioned for FY98.
Proposed Assistance Under The TAP IH
62.   To support the Government's reform  program, the public sector modernization component
of the TAP II will finance the following activities: (i) preparing the PSMAP; (ii) providing training
for senior officials; and (iii) conducting a service delivery survey.
63.   Public Sector Modernization Action Plan (US$0.65 Million). The TAP II will finance
technical and advisory services to the Government for preparing the PSMAP, which will provide the
analytical basis for Government to design and implement a public sector modernization program.
Ultimately, such a program will cover the following areas: (a) reaching a consensus on the role of the
public sector, (b) public service reform; (c) public administration reform, including institutional
reordering, and rationalization and simplification of procedures and key tasks; (d) administrative and
financial decentralization and the strengthening of basic municipal management; and (e) updating of the
legal framework goveming the operations of the public sector.
64.   The preparation of the PSMAP will be directed from the Office of the Prime Minister, with
active participation of, in particular, the Ministries of Finance, Interior, and Planning. It is expected to
be initiated following the presidential elections, to continue the policy dialogue with the new
Government.
65.   The proposed assistance for the PSMAP will include the provision of: (i) a lead consultant with
proven international experience and the capacity for intellectual leadership at a high level, whose
primary responsibility will be to lead Government efforts in the preparation of the PSMAP and the
coordination of public sector improvements included in projects supported by other donors; and (ii)
experienced consultancy services to undertake (a) functional reviews of selected ministries; and (b)
studies pertaining to the areas to be covered under the reform program. This will be complemented by
studies undertaken in the context of the other components of the TAP II.
66.   Training for Senior Officials (US$0.40 Million). The preparation of the PSMAP will be
supported by workshops and seminars to build ownership and commitment to public sector
modernization at all levels of government and within the wider political and economic decision-making
arena. The proposed assistance for the training program will include the provision of specialists with
intemational experience and materials.
67.   Service Delivery Survey (US$0.05 Million). To assess strengths and weaknesses of the
public sector and establish performance benchmarks, a service delivery survey for selected sectors will
be commissioned in the later stages of the implementation of the public sector modernization
component. The findings of this survey will feed into the fine-tuning of strategies and actions under the
PSMAP. The proposed assistance for this sub-component will include the provision of a qualified
consultancy firm.



- 18 -                        Technical Annex
68.   Finally, dialogue with the donor community will be pursued in order to identify a possible
partner for a large-scale training of mid-level officials in key economic, technical and management
skills.
6. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION COMPONENT
69.   Implementation  Support (US$1.60 Million). This component will support the
programming and planning unit in the Ministry of Finance responsible for overseeing the project.
In particular, the unit will be responsible for procurement of goods and services and facilitating
disbursements for all activities of the TAP II, except for the private sector development
component, where this responsibility will rest with the SEDU. Specifically, the TAP II will
finance the following activities: (a) financing of a project manager; (b) hiring of an international
procurement advisor backed by a procurement agency; (c) providing procurement training for
counterpart staff, (d) procuring computer and office equipment; and (e) covering incremental
operating costs associated with the TAP II. In addition, USS$0.5 million of this component are
allocated to refund activities related to employment generation financed under a  Project
Preparation Facility, which have now been integrated in the IDA-financed Employment
Generation Project (Credit No.2765-HA).
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
70.   The TAP II will finance the cost of consultant services, training, information technology,
equipment and incremental operating costs to support the implementation of the Government's
economic reform program. Total costs for the technical assistance program for the three areas
addressed by the TAP II -- public finance, privatization and public sector modernization -- are
estimated at US$58.2 million equivalent. The US$12.0 million equivalent IDA Credit will finance
approximately 21 percent of these costs. The balance will be funded by expected and committed
financing for the program includes contributions by CIDA (US$0.25 million), IDB (US$13.67
million), IMF (US$0.36 million), Japan (US$5.0 million), UNDP (US$18.7 million) and USAID
(US$7.0 million). The Government will provide counterpart financing of US$1.20 million, for
counterpart staff, local consultants, equipment, office space, supplies, secretarial services, vehicle
operation and training support costs. Approximately US$7.3 million of the IDA Credit will be
allocated to consultant services, US$1.6 million for equipment, US$0.6 million for works
(aerophotography), US$1.3 million for training, US$0.6 million for incremental operating costs
and US$0.6 million for contingencies.



- 19 -                        Technical Annex
SECTION B: PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
71.   Implementation of the TAP II directly involves the following Government offices and
agencies:
(i)    Office of the Prime Minister, including the Technical Secretariat for Private Sector
Participation in Public Enterprises (currently, the state-owned enterprises democratization
unit: SEDU), for the private sector development and public sector modernization
components.
(ii)   Ministry of Finance, including the tax administration (DGI) and the National Land
Registry, for property tax reform, expenditure management and human resources
management;
(iii)   Ministry of Planning, for expenditure management, specifically the budgeting and
monitoring of capital expenditures;
(iv)   Cour des Comptes (the national auditing office), for expenditure management,
specifically the strengthening of audit functions.
72.   The proposed implementation arrangements are as follows:
(i)    Office of the Prime Minister.  The Office of the Prime Minister would house the
representative(s) of a recognized consulting firm with experience in the design of public
sector modernization programs. The role of the Office of the Prime Minister would be to
lead a government and nation wide dialogue, with analytical support by the consulting firm
develop a public sector modernization strategy and action plan.  Procurement and
disbursement for this task would be managed from the project implementation unit in the
Ministry of Finance.
The Technical Secretariat for Private Sector Participation would manage all activities
related to the private sector development program. While the Technical Secretariat could
draw on support by the project implementation unit, it is expected to develop an in-house
capacity for procurement and disbursement, and to extend assistance to other agencies
affected by the private sector participation process. Currently, SEDU has been assigned
the role of Technical Secretariat.
(ii)   Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance would house the project implementation
unit, responsible for supervision, procurement and disbursement of the overall TAP II
with the exception of (i) above. The unit would include a local project manager and a



- 20 -                       Technical Annex
procurement advisor from a recognized procurement agency (possibly seconded by UNDP
to facilitate coordination with the IMF/UNDP project, but solely accountable to the
Ministry and IDA).  The Ministry of Finance would also house the advisors and
consultants responsible for assisting in the design of the management information system
and the accounting and budgeting framework for the expenditure management
componenit. It would further be responsible for the human resources management system
componient, including the civil service census and the implementation of the central civil
service file.
DGI would house the experts for the property tax reform.  All procurement and
disbursement would be arranged through the project implementation unit. The National
Land Registry would be responsible for the creation of the land register.
(iii) Ministry of Planning. The Ministry of Planning would benefit from the extension of the
management information system  to integrate the budget planning functions of the
Ministries of Planning and Finance. It would also house an expert on public sector
investment planning to complement support by UNDP. Procurement and disbursement
would rest with the project implementation unit.
(iv)   Cour des Comptes. The Cour des Comptes will house an accounting and auditing
specialist and benefit from training. The expert should be provided by the same consulting
firm working for the Ministry of Finance. Procurement and disbursement would rest with
the project implementation unit.
PROCUREMENT
73.   The works, goods and services to be financed under the project will be procured in
accordance with Bank Guidelines or other procedures acceptable to IDA. The contract for
aerophotography works for the property tax reform component will be awarded by International
Competitive Bidding (ICB). Contracts for goods (vehicles, computer equipment and software)
valued at US$50,000 equivalent or more will be awarded through Limited International Bidding
(LIB) for an estimated amount of US$500,000 equivalent. LIB procedures are justified given the
small number of providers with after-delivery service in Haiti. Standard IDA bidding documents
would be used for LIB. Contracts for goods and equipment with estimated values of less than
US$50,000 equivalent up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000 equivalent will be awarded
using international shopping procedures; and contracts for goods and equipment (office furniture
and supplies) for a value of less than US$5,000 equivalent up to an aggregate amount of
US$20,000 equivalent will be awarded through local shopping. All procurement for training and
consultant services under the various components would be in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
All procurement of goods above US$50,000, all terms of reference for consultants, all contracts
for critical assignments and all consultancy contracts above US$50,000 for firms and above
US$25,000 for individuals will be subject to prior review by IDA.



- 21 -                        Technical Annex
DISBURSEMENT
74.   The project is expected to be implemented over a five year period. Disbursements will be
administered by the project unit. All withdrawal applications will be fully documented, except for
expenditures under contracts for goods valued below US$50,000 equivalent, individual consultant
contracts valued at or below US$25,000 equivalent, and consultant firm contracts valued at or
below US$50,000 equivalent which will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs), for which detailed documentation evidencing expenditures will be retained by the project
unit and made available for review by auditors and by IDA staff Retroactive financing in an
amount of US$1.0 million equivalent, approximately 8 percent of the Credit, will be available for
eligible expenditures incurred after July 27, 1995. This financing will cover the cost of additional
diagnostic work and project start-up activities. A Special Account in US dollars will be opened in
the central bank, with an authorized allocation of US$750,000 equivalent. An amount of
US$250,000 will be released upon credit effectiveness and an amount of US$3 million will have
to be reached before the borrower has access to the total authorized allocation.
AUDITS
75.   The project unit will maintain records and accounts of all transactions relating to the TAP
II, with the exception of records and accounts pertaining to the component executed by the
SEDU. All records and accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory
to IDA. Statement of expenses (SOEs), audit reports of project accounts, and the financial
statements themselves would be provided to IDA within six months of the end of each Haitian
fiscal year. The first report would be due March 31, 1998, for the fiscal year ending September
30, 1997.
REPORTING AND MONITORING
76.   The project unit will be responsible for monitoring project progress and for preparing
quarterly progress reports, satisfactory to IDA, which will briefly evaluate the progress of
implementation up to date, starting in December 1996. The reports will be reviewed by the
Ministry of Finance and submitted to IDA within 30 days. There will be joint annual reviews,
under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, by end-September of each year, beginning in 1997.
The expected project completion date is December 31, 2001 and the Credit closing date would be
June 30, 2002. An implementation completion report will be prepared by the Government and
submitted to IDA no later than December 331, 2002.






Technical Annex
Schedule 1 (A)
Page 1 of 4
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Matrix of Key Project Activities
GOVERNMENT OBJECTIVES    PROJECT COMPONENTS                                  EXPECTED OUTPUT                       BENEFICLARY                       TIMING
(LINKAGE TO ERC 11)                                                                                                                 l
1. PROPERTY TAX REFORM COMPONENT
Simplifv system of property taxation   (i)  System of property taxation      *   Review of system of property      *   Ministry of Finance           *   12/96 - 02/97
to increase administrative efficiency,                                           taxation
strengthieni property tax administration    (Agreement on tax reform         *   Recommendations for rcfoni of                                       *   03/97- 05/97
to increase revenue collection, and         measures to increase                  system  of property taxation
establisli land registries to provide an    administrative efficiency and
adcquate reventc, thereby facilitatin-g     redul/ce distortionis)
fiscal decentralizationi
.... .................... ........ ........................(i)..... ...  Prpetytax..... .. .....*Revev.o.popetyta.*..a........ .......S .12/6  0/9
(ii) Property tax administration     *   Review of propertv tax                 'Ilax Adminiiistration (D(il)    *    12/96 - 03/97
administration
(Agreement on tax and cu.stonms  *   Implementationi of informationi                                    .   04/97 - 09/98
adminlistration reform               system
mieaisuires to strengthen       *   Imnplementation of assessment                                       *   04/97 - 09/98
r evenule collection)                system
*   Provision of equipment and                                          *   04/97 - 09/97
vehicles
*   Provision of traininig                                              *   04/97 - 03/99
......................................... .....................................
(iii) Land registry                  *   Creation of laid registries in    *   Municipalities                *   12/96 -12/00
major urban centers              *   National Land Registry
(See above)
2. EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
hnprove accountinlg information to     (i)  Integrated financial             *   Development of iltegrated         *   Ministry of Finance and       *    12/96 - 12/99
facilitate financially-based decision-      management system                    intformation system (software          Ministry of Planning
making, efficient resource allocation,                                           and installation)
priority setting, and increased             (Agreement on public
accountability,                             expenditure management
reform measures to facilitate
efficient allocation and better
control of public expenditures)



Technical Annex
Schedule 1 (A)
Page 2 of 4
GOVERNMENT OBJECTIVES    PROJECT COMPONENTS                           EXPECTED OUTPUT                    BENEFICL4RY                    TIMING
(LINKAGE TO ERC 1)                                                 .
2. EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT COMPONENT (cont.)
Inprove accotunting information to  (ii) Expenditure management and    *   Identification of records to be  *   Ministry of Finance      *   12/96 - 06/97
facilitate financially-based decision-  accounting                        improved or created for double-
making, efficient resource allocation,                                     entry accounting
priority setting, and increased         (See above)                    *   Preparation of policy and                                    *   12/96 - 11/97
accountability.                                                            procedures maniuals for double-
entry accounting
*   Implementation of double-entrY                                *   04/97 - 09/98
accounting system
*   Provision of trainine for stattf                              *   04/97 - 09/99
in revised accountinu
*   Post-implemiienitatioll evaluation                           *   09/98 - 09/99
of the system
*   Development of pliblic sector  *   Ministrv of Planning      *   12/96-12/97
investment program
Strengthen the intemnal control     (iii) Auditing                    *   Development of modemn internal  *   Ministry of Finanice      *   12/96 - 11/97
envirotunentt and stmncture in the                                         auditing standards and practices
public administrationi tlhrougil the    (See above)                        and preparation of an
introduction of inodeni auditing                                           operational au(lit manual.
practices, and assist the Cour des                                    *   Provision of training for internal                            *   04/97 - 09/99
Coinptes in canrying out its tasks as                                      auditors.
supreme audit institution.                                            *   Review of organizationial.     *   Cour des Comrptes          *   (04/97 - 0)9/97
statutory and constitutionial
aspects of the Cour des Comptes
*   Development of modern
legislative auditing standards                               *   (06/97 - 05/98
and practices and preparation of
an operational audit manuiial
*   Provision of traininlg for
legislative auditors                                         *   09/97 - 09/99
hiprove debt and asset maniagemiienit to  (iv) Debt and asset managemiient  *   Review of debt and asset  *   Ministry of Finance       *   03/97 - 05/97
strengthen finanicial control and                                          manlagement practices
paymenit discipline                     (See above)                   *   Provision of personal computers                               *   04/97 - 07/97
*   Provision of training                                        *   05/97 - 09/99



Technical Annex
Schedule 1 (A)
Page 3 of 4
GOVERNMENT OBJECTIVES    PROJECT COMPONENTS                                     EXPECTED OUTPUT                        BENEFICIARY                        TIMING
(LINKAGE TO ERC 11)
3. HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT SYSTEM COMPONENT
Develop institutional capacity of the    (i)  Civil service census             *   Census to establish identity of     *   Ministry of Finance            *   03/97 - 06/98
central government to manage liiman                                                 civil servants, including
resources efficiently                        (See ahove)                            evaluation
......................................   .....................................                                         ................................................................. 
(ii) Humiian resources infonnation    *   Audit of payroll svstem                                                *   06/98
systemn (HRTS)                    *   Implementation of computerized                                        *    12/97 - 06/98
ccntral civil service file and
(See above)                           linkages
*     riplemlentation of central HRIS                                     *   06/98 - 09/9'
.......................................................................... .....................................
(iii ) Training pertaining to humlLani    *   Provision of trainin..                                             *   06/9X - 03/0()
resources management
(See above)
4. PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
Support elaboration and                  (i)  Technical Secretariat for         *   Elaboration ofprogram for          *   Teclhnical Secretariat         *   06/96 - 09/96
iinplenientation of the programn for         Private Sector Participation           private sector pailicipation in         (SEDU)
private sector participation in              (currently SEDIJ)                      ownership and managemiient of
management and oxmierslhip of public                                                public enterprises and
entcrprises                                   (lmplenie,,tttioni offirst plhase     coordinationi of technical
?f'prograni, including:               assistance
establishment oj SEDU,            *   Review of divestiture proposals                                       *   06/96 - (09/98
legislationl antd measures to    *   Preparatory stLdies and                                                *   06/96 - 09/98
ficilitate private maniagemenit       transactions advice
anid oivaership, particularly in   *   Purchase of computer and office                                      *    12/95 - 12/96
power and1 por'ts)                     equipment
(ii) Public infonnation campaign      *   Design of a commtnications                                             *   09/96 - 12/96
strategy
(See above)                      *   Implementation of information                                          *    12/96 - 03/98
campaign
*   Research on public perceptions                                        *   03/97 - 09/97
*   Organization of seminars,                                             *    12/96 - 03/98
training and conferences



Technical Annex
Schedule 1 (A)
Page 4 of 4
GOVERNMENT OBJECTIVES    PROJECT COMPONENTS                                     EXPECTED OUTPUT                        BENEFICLARY                        TIMING
(LINK4GE TO ERC H)                   _                                                                                                  l
4. PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT (cont.)
Support elaboration and                  (iii) Legal and regulatory refonis    *   Analysis and design of              *   Technical Secretariat          *   09/96 - 12/97
implementation of the program for                                                   regulatory framework                    (SEDU) and regulatory
private sector participation in              (See above)                        *   Strengthening of regulatory             agencies                      *   03/97 - 09/99
management and ownership of public                                                  agencies
enterprises                                                                    *   Provision of traininig and                                             *   09/96 - 09/99
international exchanige
*   Support for execution of                                              *   03/97 - 09/99
regulatory ftnctions
5. PUBLIC SECTOR MODERNIZATION COMPONENT
Reach a consensus on the role of the     (i)  Public sector modemnization      *   Status report and vision            *   Office of the Prime            *   03/97 - 09/97
state and lay the foundation for a            action plan (PSMAP)                   statemenit                              Minister and selected
comprehensive public sector reform to                                          *   Functional review of selected            ministries                    *   06/97 - 12/97
improve service delivery and facilitate       (Preparation for ERC III)             ministries
private sector development                                                     *   Review of legal framework                                              *   03/97 - 09/97
governing public sector
*   Discussion of draft PSMAP                                             *   12/97
............ . . . . .. . . . , .. . . . . .. . . , , .. . . . . .. . . . .
(ii) Training for senior officials    *   Provision of trainiig, workshops   *   Govemment, Parliament,          *   06/97 - 09/98
and conferences                        public administration and
(See abov'e)                      __________________                          opinion leaders
................................................................... .................. Seao)opnnladr
(iii) Service delivery survev         *   Preparation and evaluation of       *   Office of the Prime            *   09/97 - 12/97
service delivery survey                Minister and selected
(See above)                                                                   ministries
6. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION COMPONENT
Facilitate rapid implementationi of      (i)  Consultant services to           *   Preparation of procurement          *   TAP E project uniit in         *   09/96 - 09/98
TAP 11                                       facilitate procurement                 doctmentation. Ministry of Finanice
(ii) Procuremenit training            *   Organization of workshops and                                          *    12/96 - 09/98
............................................................................         oii-the-job     training
(iii) Computer and office             *   Purchase of computer and office                                        *    12/96 - 09/97
equipmenit                            equipmient                                                            __I
(iv) Incremental operating costs      *   Ftnding of incremental              *   Ministries and agencies        *    12/96 - 12/99
.___ ____ _ _   operating costs                 covered by the TAP H



HAITI
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Schedule 1 (B): Development Impact Indicatoi's
PROJECT COMPONENT                     DEVELOPMENT IMPACT INDICATOR
1. Property Tax Reform Component
(i) Systenm of Property Taxation   *  Establishment of a simplified property tax
system to facilitate assessment of property
values
(i0 Property Ttax Ad(ministraition  *  Strengthening of property tax
administration through specialization,
training, provision of equipment and
implementation of management
information system to increase revenue
collection
('iii) Lan(d Registr               *  Establishment of fiscal registry for Port-
au-Prince and other major urban centers
to improve identification of property and
assessment of property values
2. Expenditure Management Component
(i) Integrated Financial          *  Establishment of core integrated financial
Managemnent Systeml                management system in Ministry of
Finance to improve accounting
information
(ii) Expenditure A-inagenient and    *  Establishment of automated double-entry
Accounting                         accounting system to improve accounting
information
* Establishment of three year rolling
investment program to improve
investment and budget planning
(iii) Autliting                   *  Ability to conduct adequate internal and
external audits
(iv) Debt and Assetl anagenment    *  Establishment of adequate debt reporting
mechanism and improved ability to
budged and execute debt service
payments



- 28 -                     Technical Annex
Schedule I (B)
PROJECT COMPONENT                      DEVELOPMENT IMPACT INDICATOR
3. Human Resoturces Management System Componeint
(i) CivilService Census             *  Completion of civil service census to
establish size of public service
(ii) Humnain Resource Information    *  Establishment of civil service file and links
System                             to payroll and other relevant information
data bases to improve employment
management and expenditure control
4. Private Sector Development Componenit
(i) State-O(s'nel Enterp)rise       *  Establishment of unit to facilitate private
Democratization Unit (SEDU)          sector participation in management and
ownership of key public enterprises
(ii) Public Informiation Program    *  Execution of public awareness campaign
for key stakeholders and in key media to
gain support for the Government's
program
(iii) Legal and Regulatory Reforms   *  Establishment of adequate regulatory
fiamework for telecommlluniications, ports
and airports and strengthening of
regulatory agencies to maximize benefits
of private sector participation
5. Public Sector Modernization Component
(i) Public Sector Mlodlernization   *  Preparation of PSMAP to lay foundation
Action Plan (PSMIAP)                for future comprehensive public sector
reform
(ii) Training for Senior Officials  *  Conduct of workshops, seminars and
study tours to reach consensus on public
sector reform needs and improve skills of
key civil servants
(iii) Service D)eiivery Survey     *  Implementation of service delivery survey
for at least one ministry to establish
benchmarks for performance
6. Project Implementation Component  *  Swift implementation of TAP II and
transfer of skills to counterpart staff to
ensure sustainability of reform efforts



HAITI
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Schedule 1 (C): Implementation Targets
ACTION BY PROJECT COMPONENT                                     TARGET DATE
1. Property Tax Reform Component
(i) System of Property Taxation
1. Review of system of property taxation                         Ist quarter, 1997
2. Recommendations for reform                                   2nd quaiter, 1997
3. Drafting of legislation                                      3rd quarter, 1997
4. Submission of legislation                                    4th quarter, 1997
(ii) Property Tax Administration
1. Review of property tax administration                         I st quarter, 1997
2. Initiation of information system                             2nd quarter, 1997
3. Initiation of assessment system                              2nd quarter, 1997
4. Creation of valuation cell in DGI                            3rd quarter, 1997
5. Procurement of vehicles and equipment                        3rd quarter, 1997
6. Revising of valuation system                                 2nd quarter, 1998
7. Creation of appeal system                                    2nd quarter, 1998
8. Computerization of key operations                            3rd quarter. 1998
(iii) Land Registry
(a) Geodetic Grid/Aerial Photography
1. Preparation of technical specs                                1st quarter, 1997
2. Preparation of bidding documents                              I st quarter, 1997
3. Bidding under ICB                                            2nd quarter, 1997
4. Firm selection                                               2nd quarter, 1997
5. Contract execution                                           3rd quarter, 1997
(b) Supplemental Ground Control
1. Preparation of technical specs                               2nd quarter, 1997
2. Preparation of bidding documents                             2nd quarter, 1997
3. Bidding under ICB                                            3rd quarter, 1997
4. Firm selection                                               4th quarter, 1997
5. Contract execution                                            1st quarter, 1998
6. Parcel identification                                        2nd quarter, 1999
7. Self-declaration of value                                    4th quarter, 2000



- 30 -                     Technical Annex
Schedule 1 (C)
ACTION BY PROJECT COMPONENT                                    TARGET DATE
2. Expenditure Management Component
(i) IntegratedFinancialManagementSystem
1. Identification and retaining of services of long-term        1st quarter, 1997
advisor
2. Preparation of technical specs for consulting firm          2nd quarter, 1997
3. Preparation of bidding documents                            2nd quarter, 1997
4. Bidding under ICB                                            3rd quarter, 1997
5. Firm selection                                               4th quarter, 1997
6. Contract execution                                           1st quarter, 1998
7. Design and initiation of training programs                  2nd quarter, 1998
(ii) Expendliture Managenment and Accounting
1. Identification and retaining of services of long-term        1st quarter, 1997
advisor
2. Needs identification of the accounting system               2nd quarter, 1997
3. Identification of records to be improved or created         2nd quarter, 1997
for double entry accounting
4. Drafting of policy and procedural manuals for                3rd quarter, 1997
double entry accounting
5. Initiation of computerized accounting system                 1st quarter, 1998
6. Post-implementation evaluation of the system and its         3rd quarter, 1999
users
7. Integration of central accounting system with sub-           4th quarter, 1999
systems
8. Identify and retain services of long-term expert on          1 st quarter, 1997
public investment programming
9. Establishing of a repertoire of all ongoing, new and        2nd quarter, 1997
idea projects
10. Preparation of a three-year rolling investment             3rd quarter, 1997
program
(iii) Auditing
1. Identification and retaining of services of long-term        1 st quarter, 1997
advisor
2. Review of internal audit records                            2nd quarter, 1997
3. Drafting of internal auditing standards and manuals         3rd quarter, 1997
and of operational audit manual for the Ministry of
Finance
4. Survey of audit universe and submission audit plan           4th quarter, 1997
5. Review of organizational, statutory and                     3rd quarter, 1997
constitutional aspects of the Cour des Comptes



- 31 -                      Technical Annex
Schedule 1 (C)
ACTION BY PROJECT COMPONENT                                      TARGET DATE
6. Drafting of legislative auditing standards and                 1st quarter, 1998
practices and of operational audit manual for the
Cour des Comptes
7. Design and initiation of training programs for                 3rd quarter, 1997
internal auditors
(iv) Debt and Asset Management
1. Identification and retaining of services of short-term         1 st quarter, 1997
advisor
2  Review of debt and asset management practices                 2nd quarter, 1997
3. Procurement of personal computers                              3rd quarter, 1997
4. Establishing of definitive set of debt figures agreed          3rd quarter, 1997
upon by interested parties
5. Submission of quarterly debt reports                           3rd quarter, 1997
6  Institute data base on public sector debt                      3rd quarter, 1997
7. Data base on private external debt                             1st quarter, 1998
8. Design and initiation of training programs                     3rd quarter, 1997
3. Human Resources Management System Component
(i) Civil Service Census
1  Identification and retaining of services of long-term          1 st quarter, 1997
advisor
2. Completion of reports on census methodology                   2nd quarter, 1997
3  Preparationi of census questionnaire                          2nd quarter, 1997
4. Establishing of Census Coordinating Committee                 2nd quarter, 1997
5. Design of database program for census                         2nd quarter, 1997
6. Nomenclature of regions and mass sensibilization              2nd quarter, 1997
7. Hiring and training of support staff                           3rd quarter, 1997
8. Execution of census                                            4th quarter, 1997
9. Evaluation of census                                           1st quarter, 1998
(ii) Human Resource Information System
I  Undertaking of payroll audit verification                      I st quarter, 1998
2  Cross-checking of address and information                     2nd quarter, 1998
inconsistencies
3. Establishing of central civil service file                     1st quarter, 1998
4. Linking of central civil service file with fiscal file,       2nd quarter, 1998
fiscal identity card file and retirement files
5. Review of civil service law and applications                   1 st quarter, 1999
(iii) Tra-ining
1. Design and initiation of training program                     2nd quarter, 1998



- 32 -                     Technical Annex
Schedule I (C)
ACTION BY PROJECT COMPONENT                                   TARGET DATE
4. Private Sector Development Component
(i)State-Owvned Enterprise Democratization Unit (SEDU)
1. Establishing of SEDU, and identification of                 3rd quarter, 1996
organizational structure and staffing requirements
2. Preparation of time schedule and implementation             3rd quarter, 1996
plan for private sector participation program
3. Preparation of terms of reference of the external           3rd quarter, 1996
advisors to be recruited for SEDU
4. Support for private sector participation in key             3rd quarter, 1996
enterprises
(ii) Public Infornmation Progrant
1. Completion of strategy and implementation plan for          4th quarter, 1996
public information campaign for the private sector
participation program
2. Initiation of educational seminars and training             1st quarter, 1997
programs on privatization for members of
parliament, stakeholders, and the general public
3. Termination of public information campaign for the          1st quarter, 1998
private sector participation program
(iii) Legal and Regulatory Reforms
1. Preparation of the draft law on privatization              2nd quarter, 1996
2. Review of and recommendations for the regulatory            1 st quarter, 1997
framework for the telecommunications sector
3. Review of and recommendations for the regulatory            1st quarter, 1997
framework for the maritime ports sector
4. Review of and recommendations for the regulatory            1st quarter, 1997
framework for the airport sector
5. Review of and recommendations for the regulatory            1 st quarter, 1997
framework for electricity sector
6. Strengthening of regulatory agencies and support           2nd quarter, 1997
for execution of regulatory functions
5. Public Sector Modernization Component
(i) Public Sector Molernization Action Plan
1. Support to Office of the Prime Minister for vision          3rd quarter, 1997
statement for transforming public sector and civil
service and development of strategy for carrying out
required changes
2. Review of legal framework governing public sector           3rd quarter, 1997
and revision of draft civil service code



- 33 -                      Technical Annex
Schedule 1 (C)
ACTION BY PROJECT COMPONENT                                      TARGET DATE
3. Functional review of selected ministries                      4th quarter, 1997
4. Preparation and discussion of draft PSMAP                     4th quarter, 1997
5. Development of job classification system and                  2nd quarter, 1998
remuneration policy for the central administration
6. Installation of job classification system and                  1st quarter, 1999
remuneration guidelines in eligible agencies
(ii) Training for Senior Officials
1. Agreement on training program                                 3rd quarter, 1997
2. Organization of workshops on "Public Sector                   4th quarter, 1997
Modernization: Service Delivery Implication" for
senior civil servants
3. Provision of training, workshops, conferences to              3rd quarter, 1998
improve skills of senior officials
(iii) Service Delivery Survey
1. Establishing of consultative mechanism for                    3rd quarter, 1997
strengthening service delivery
2. Implementation of service delivery survey for at              4th quarter, 1997
least one ministry
6. Project Implementatioii Component
1. Hiring of project manager and procurement advisor             4th quarter, 1996
2. Organization of workshops and on-the-job training              1st quarter, 1997
3. Purchase of computer and office equipment                      1st quarter, 1997
4. Funding of incremental operating costs                         1st quarter, 1997






HAITI
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Schedule 2: Training Plan
INTRODUCTION
1.    Training will constitute a key activity under the TAP II. A total of US$1.26
million, about 10 percent of the total Credit amount, will be allocated to formal training
activities. These take the form of seminars, workshops, study tours and staff exchange.
In addition, there will be important on-the-job training activities integrated into the project
components.
SUMMARY OF TRAINING ACTIVITIES
1. PROPERTY TAX REFORM COMPONENT
2.    Success of any reform on property tax administration would depend to a great
extent on imparting proper training to its staff. With this objective in view, the TAP II
would finance appropriate training programs to managers, technicians and administrative
personnel at the Directorate General of Taxes (DGI) and at the National Land Registry
to improve their professional skills and efficiency and there by increase significantly the
performance of these institutions. The budget for training under this component amounts
to US$0. 15 million; training activities are scheduled to extend from the second quarter of
1997 to the first quarter of 1999.
3.    Consultants financed under the Project would design and structure specialized
training programs in mapping, valuation, collection, appeals, audit and enforcement for
staff involved in these specialized areas. A suggested curriculum for the general training
program would include: (i) theory and practice of the valuation of residential property and
commercial and industrial property; (ii) building attributes and practices; (iii) elements of
surveying and referencing for valuation purposes; (iv) use of computer systems; and (v)
tax collection, appeals, audit and enforcement.
2. EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
4.    A key objective of the expenditure management training program  will be to
upgrade and deepen the analytical skills of mid and higher level staff of the Ministries of
Finance and Planning in accounting, auditing, public sector investment programming, and
issues relating to the public debt. Development of course material and initial delivery of
training would constitute an important task of each of the long-term residential advisory
teams proposed to be retained under the project. Training would also benefit the Cour des



- 36 -                     Technical Annex
Schedule 2
Coniples. The budget for training under this component amounts to US$0.42 million;
training activities are scheduled to extend from the second quarter of 1997 to the third
quarter of 1999.
5.    In accounting, a significant amount of resources will be devoted to training in data
entry and use of the to-be-installed double entry accounting system. Training as well as
study tours to relevant public administrations in the Americas will also be provided.
6.    In auditing, training will be devoted to familiarizing auditors in the Ministry of
Finance and the Coul des Con;pwes with modern standards in internal and external
auditing, and to facilitate application of the operational audit manuals that would be
prepared by the technical advisors.
7.    As public investment programming and provision of macro-economics indicators
assume a certain level of skills in macroeconomics, the public investment advisor will
provide training in macro-econiomiiics projections, project evaluation, financial analysis for
selected staff in the Ministry of Planning and the line ministries.
8.    Training in debt management will involve instructions in the application of
software for debt management. External training will also be arranged with the World
Bank and other private financial institutions.
9.    The organization of training interventions will be the responsibility of the
Ministries of Finance and Planning and the Couir des Comptes, assisted by the project
implementation unit and the long-term advisors. The effective coordination of tasks
involved in the design, adminiistration and financing of training interventions will be key to
the sustainability of this component.
3. HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT SYSTEM COMPONENT
10.   Training and educational activities under the human resources management system
component will cover Ministry of Finance staff in the areas of use of information systems
and personnel management. The budget for training under this component amounts to
US$0.05 million; training activities are scheduled to extend from the third quarter of 1997
to the first quarter of 2000.
I.   The computer traininig will fall under the census component of the project. The
census takers and data entry personnel will be offered training in data input and basic
computer manipulation.  The data administrator, in cooperation with the information
systems unit at the Ministry of Finance, will be in charge of providing the training. A
budget of $5,000 will adequately cover material and equipment.
12.   Training in information systems and personnel management will be provided to
high level staff of the central administration dealing with personnel management. The
number of participants will be approximately 200. Subjects to be covered include human



- 37 -                      Technical Annex
Schedule 2
resources management as well as the rudiments of public accounting and budget. Public
and private institutions of higher learning would be contracted to provide experienced
teachers. Training will be scheduled over a period of 20 months following the census.
The budgeted costs are $45,000.
4. PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
13.   Lessons of experience from  other countries have demonstrated that broad
educational programs disseminating information on the objectives, approaches and
potential outcomes of privatization are crucial for successful implementation. Under this
component, staff within SEDU will be trained on privatization techniques and familiarized
with international best practices, and the various groups of stakeholders (parliament, labor
unions, non-governmental oroianizations, the media, government and private sector) and
potential investors will be educated on the objectives, approaches and potential outcomes
of the Government of Haiti's  private sector participation program.  The budget for
training under this component amounts to US$0.20 million (excluding activities under the
public information campaign); training activities are scheduled to extend from the fourth
quarter of 1996 to the third quarter of 1999.
14.   Tar,geted wi,orkshiops oni pr'ivatizalionJ will be designed as a vehicle to disseminate
information on the Government's private sector participation program to several segments
of the Haitian society. The workshops would be tailored to respond to the particular
concerns of the various groLups involved. The objective of the workshops would be to
inform the participants oni the rationale, objectives, scope, methodology and expected
outcomes of Haiti's private sector participation program, and to provide a forum for
questions and feedback. As part of the training program, a team of Haitians delivering the
workshops across the country would be trained on privatization concepts by international
privatization experts.
15.   Privatization of those state enterprises that are not currently corporatized, will
require an approval by the Parliament.  Under this component (a) .semintatrs will be
organized to the newly elected parliamenit to educate them on rationale of privatization
and what role it could play in a country's economic growth strategy, and to disseminate
details on outcomes of past experiences on privatization transactions in other countries;
and (b) stuidy tours will be organized to selected members of parliament to countries that
have implemented extensive divestiture programs, including for infrastructure.
16.   Traitiinsg  oni plri'cizaltioni techniques; company  valuation  methodologies;
corporate finance and financial markets will be provided to SEDU staff both by the
external advisers recruited under the TAP II, and by external training institutes. SEDU
staff will participate on stucdy tours to countries which have implemented innovative
privatization schelmles.
17.   Ncailloncil coqJlreULce  o/7 privalization  will be organized  prior to  major
transactions, to educate and inform the general public on the specific characteristics of the



- 38 -                       Technical Annex
Schedule 2
sale. International press conferences and road shows will be organized to attract potential
foreign investors.
18.   As part of the privatization process, the role of the state in the utilities sectors will
be redefined, and the legal and regulatory framework revised.   As the current
implementation capability within Haiti on legal and regulatory issues is extremely limited,
the TAP II finance training oni techniical anid legal aspects of regullation1s, specifically on
those related to concession contract enforcement and monitoring, and resolution of
disputes. Twining arrangements with regulatory institutions in other countries will be
arranged as part of the TAP II training program.
5. PUBLIC SECTOR MODERNIZATION COMPONENT
19.   The transformation of behaviors and attitudes and the building of capacities will
form an important part of the effort to modernize Haiti's public sector. Training activities
carried out under the project will include (i) awareness raising workshops on issues of
good policy anid strsategic pl/aning for senior public sector officials and decision makers
(including parliamentarians); (ii) training of mid-level public sector managers, technical
and administrative staff on improved petfornmance and service delivery in the pllblic
sector; and (iii) capacil. bilding for jouirnialisis on issues of public sector management
and good governance. Training interventions will constitute a key vehicle for building
ownership and internal support for sustaining performance improvement in public sector
institutions. The budget for training under this component amounts to USSO.40 million;
training activities are scheduled to extend from the third quarter of 1997 to the third
quarter of 1998.
20.   The training interventions for public sector modernization are structured around
four core modules: (i) senior policy interventions for decision-makers on Haiti's vision for
the public sector and its translation into reality in the medium term; (ii) seminar series for
mid-level career civil servants on (a) vision and implementation strategy for the PSMAP,
(b) performance evaluation and planning, (c) public expenditure planning and
management, and (d) institutional re-ordering; (iii) a seminar series aimed at launching a
structured dialogue between the public sector and the public at large on strategies for
improving the provision of basic services to the public, and (iv) seminars on investigative
journalism to enhance the professionalism and analytical capacity of Haitian journalists to
address issues of public sector management and good governance.
21.   Each of the above modules will be developed and carried out in coordination with
the expenditure management and human resources management system components under
the TAP II. Development of course material, including the design and management of
teleconference and audio-visual sessions, would constitute an important task of the long-
term residential advisors. The overall organization of training interventions will be the
responsibility of the Office of the Prime Minister in corporation with the Ministry of
Finance.



- 39 -                    Technical Annex
Schedule 2
6. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION COMPONENT
22.   Training and educational activities under the project implementation component
will cover staff of the Ministry of Finance staff and other agencies involved in the
implementation of the TAP 11 in the area of procurement. The budget for training under
this component amounts to US$0.04 million; training activities are scheduled to extend
from the first quarter of 1997 to the third quarter of 1998.






HAITI
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Schedule 3: Supervision Plan
DATE         ACTIVITY                    STAFFING/SKILLS              STAFF-
WEEKS
09-12/96     Project launch; selection of    Task manager; Consultant;       6
advisors; and -support for  Procurement and
SEDU                        Disbursement; Privatization
12/96-03/97  Selection of advisors; review    Task manager;Procurement;      5
of studies, and of technical  Property tax; Expenditure
specifications/bidding      management; Privatization;
documents                   Environment
04-07/97     Review of studies, technical    Task manager; Procurement;      5
specifications/bidding      Property tax; Expenditure
documents, and civil service    management; Information
census                      systems; Privatization
FY98         Three supervision missions:    Task manager; Procurement;      15
Review of overall progress  Property tax; Expenditure
management; Information
systems; Privatization; Public
administration
FY99         Three supervision missions:    Task manager; Procurement;      14
Review of overall progress  Property tax; Expenditure
management; Information
systems; Privatization; Public
administration
FY2000       Two supervision missions:   Task manager; Procurement;         13
Review of overall progress  Property tax; Expenditure
management; Information
Systems; Public administration



- 42 -                     Technical Annex
Schedule 3
DATE         ACTIVITY                     STAFFING/SKILLS              STAFF-
WEEKS
FY2001       Two supervision missions:    Task manager; Procurement;         13
Review of overall progress  Property tax; Expenditure
management; Privatization;
Public administration
FY2002       One supervision mission:     Task Manager; Consultant           10
Preparation of Implementation
Completion Report






I






I



