Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2919-HA
                         Development Credit Agreement
                     (Second Technical Assistance Project)
                                  between
                            REPUBLIC OF HAITI
                                   and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated December 17, 1996
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2919-HA
                     DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 17, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF HAITI (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereto set forth below (the General Conditions) con-
stitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
     (b)  the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
          agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
          expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
Page  2
          a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
          supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
          any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
          goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
          Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
          Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of
          the United Nations."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
     (a)  "Cour des Comptes" means the Borrower's Cour Superiure des
Comptes et du Contentieux Adminitratif, responsible for auditing the
accounts of the Borrower's agencies;
     (b)  "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which starts
on October 1 and ends on September 30 of each calendar year;
     (c)  "Implementation Program" means the program described in the
letter from the Borrower to the Association of even date herewith
(Supplemental Letter);
     (d)  "MDP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Planning and External
Cooperation;
     (e)  "MEF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economy and Finance;
     (f)  "Private Sector Development Program" means the Borrower's
program for increasing participation of the Borrower's private sector
in economic activities by means, inter alia, of divestiture of state
ownership and/or management of public assets, including state-owned
enterprises;
     (g)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the Project preparation
advance (PPF-929-0-HA Second Technical Assistance Credit) granted by
the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a letter from the
Association dated May 8, 1995, countersigned by the Borrower on May
22, 1995;
     (h)  "Project Unit" means the unit to be established within MEF
pursuant to Sections 3.03 (a) and 5.01 of this Agreement;
     (i)  "Technical Secretariat" means the Borrower's Unit established
pursuant to Arret dated July 5, 1995 within the Prime Minister's
office, which is in charge of the Private Sector Development Program
and responsible for the carrying out of Part D of the Project or any
successor agency or entity of the Borrower acceptable to the Asso-
ciation; and
     (j)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight
million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,300,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the Bank of the
Page  3
Republic of Haiti on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to
pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon
be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June
30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the Accrual Date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of
the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date or at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to para-
graph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be
applied from the next payment date in that year specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions
of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on December 15 and June 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each December 15 and June 15 commencing
December 15, 2006 and ending June 15, 2036. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on June 15, 2016 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 Dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments,
the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
Page  4
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-
mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association
may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                               ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out: (i) Parts A and C of
the Project through MEF; (ii) Part B of the Project through MEF,
MDP and Cour des Comptes; and (iii) Parts D and E of the Project
through the Prime Minister's office, all with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate managerial, financial,
administrative and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and aerophotography and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall establish and thereafter
maintain, until completion of the Project, the Project Unit, with
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association,
including, inter alia, the following:
          (i)  conducting the overall planning and monitoring of the
               Project;
         (ii)  preparing the reports referred to in Section 3.06 (b)
               and 3.07 (a) of this Agreement;
        (iii)  undertaking the procurement of goods and the selection
               of consultants' services required for Parts A, B, C
               and E of the Project; and
         (iv)  administering the withdrawals of the proceeds of the
               Credit and related records, accounts and audits for
               the same parts of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Unit is, at all
times during the execution of the Project, headed by a Project manager
assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications,
experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Association.
     (c)  The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Unit retains,
at all times until completion of the Project, an international
procurement advisor acceptable to the Association, under an agreement
containing terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
     (d)  The Borrower shall maintain Technical Secretariat until
Page  5
completion of Part D of the Project, and shall ensure that Technical
Secretariat retains staff and advisors in adequate number, with
qualifications, experience, functions and responsibilities satis-
factory to the Association, including an environmental advisor for
the purposes of implementing the recommendations of the environmental
assessments to be prepared under Part D of the Project.
     Section 3.04. With regard to the services of the consultants to
be hired under the Project, in accordance with the Implementation
Program, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  promptly after the completion of each service, furnish to
the Association copy of the consultants' findings and recommendations;
     (b)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to comment
on such findings and recommendations; and
     (c)  review and implement, as the case may be, the recommendations
of such consultants, taking into account the Association's comments
thereon.
     Section 3.05. With regard to the training programs to be carried
out under the Project, in accordance with the Implementation Program,
the Borrower shall:
     (a)  furnish to the Association, for its approval, the contents,
schedule and selection criteria of the respective programs;
     (b)  carry out such training programs in accordance with the
contents, schedule and selection criteria approved by the Asso-
ciation; and
     (c)  furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
results of each such training program and the benefits to be derived
therefrom.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with
indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and
     (b)  without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
Section 9.06 of the General Conditions, not later than January 31,
April 30, July 31 and October 31, of each year, during the execution
of the Project, starting on October 31, 1996, furnish to the Asso-
ciation, for its review and comments, a report on the progress
achieved in the execution of the Project, with regard to the
preceding quarters ending December 31, March 31, June 30 and
September 30, respectively, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association may reasonably request.
     Section 3.07. Without limitation or restriction upon the pro-
visions of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall:
     (a)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, not later than July 31 of each year of Project
implementation a summary report integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to Section
3.06 of this Agreement, on the progress achieved in the carrying
out of the Project during the year preceding the date of said
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof during the subsequent year; and
     (b)  review with the Association, not later than September 30
of each year until completion of the Project, or such later date as
the Association shall request, the summary report referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures
Page  6
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of said report and the Association's views on the
matter.
                                ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
          (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but
               in any case not later than six months after the end
               of each such Year, a certified copy of the report of
               such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
               such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
               requested; and
         (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
               concerning said records, accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association shall from time to
               time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association
               has received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or
               payment out of the Special Account was made, all
               records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
               and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure submitted
               during such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures
               and internal controls involved in their preparation,
               can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01  The following conditions are established as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely
that the Project Unit shall have been established, and that a manager
Page  7
for that Unit shall have been appointed in conformity with the
provisions of Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. The date March 17, 1997 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Economy and Finance
          Palais des Ministres
          Port-au-Prince
          Haiti
                                     Telex:
                                     20347
                                     FINANCE
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:              Telex:
               INDEVAS                248423 (MCI)
               Washington, D.C.        64145 (MCI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, as of the day and year
first above written.
               REPUBLIC OF HAITI
               By /s/ Jean Casimir
                                                Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/ Paul Isenman
                                                Authorized Representative
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items
so to be financed in each Category:
Page  8
                             Amount of the
                                 Credit             % of
                               Allocated         Expenditures
                             (Expressed in         to be
     Category               SDR Equivalent)       Financed
(1)  Goods                      990,000         100% of foreign
                                                expenditures;
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost);
                                                and 85% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(2)  Aerophotography            420,000         100% of foreign
     Services for                               expenditures
     Part A of the Project
(3)  Training                   870,000         100%
(4)  Consultants'             4,600,000         100%
     Services
(5)  Incremental                420,000         100%, until with-
     Operating                                  drawals under
     Costs                                      this Category
                                                have reached an
                                                aggregate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $300,000; 90%,
                                                equivalent to
                                                $400,000; and 80%,
                                                thereafter
(6)  Refunding of               550,000         Amounts due
     Project                                    pursuant to
     Preparation                                Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                    of this Agreement
(7)  Unallocated                450,000
                              _________
     TOTAL                    8,300,000
                              =========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means expenditures
for the operation of the Project Unit, including: (i) office supplies;
(ii) operation and maintenance of office equipment financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit; (iii) domestic and international travels and
per diem of its management and personnel; and (iv) salaries for
Project Unit staff.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed SDR 830,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) through
(5) of the table set forth in said paragraph 1, on account of payments
Page  9
made for expenditures before that date but after July 27, 1995; and
     (b)  payment made for expenditures under Categories (1), (3) and
(4) of the table set forth in said paragraph 1 for Part D of the
Project, unless the Borrower has prepared and furnished to the
Association the Private Sector Development Program, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association.
4.   The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
for:
     (a)  goods under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent;
     (b)  services of consulting firms costing less than $50,000
equivalent and not subject to prior review pursuant to Section II of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  services of individual consultants costing less than $25,000
equivalent and not subject to the review referred to in (b) above,
     (d)  under such terms and conditions as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                       Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are: (a) to strengthen the Borrower's
capacity to design and implement priority policy reforms in the areas of
public finances and privatization; and (b) to provide the analytical
base for further structural adjustment measures in the Borrower's
economy with focus on public sector modernization.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Property Tax Reform
1.   Review of the Borrower's system of property taxation, including
preparation of proposals for rationalization and consolidation of
related fees.
2.   Strengthening of the Borrower's property taxation administration,
including:
     (a)  review of current institutional arrangements;
     (b)  design and implementation of:
          (i)  related information management systems; and
         (ii)  modern appraisal systems, aimed at facilitating rapid
               assessment and valuation of properties; and
     (c)  provision of training in areas related to tax reform, such as
real state assessment and valuation for tax purposes, mass appraisal
techniques, use of related computer systems, enforcement procedures,
relevant audit and control systems.
3.   Creation of a land registry of properties in Port-au-Prince and
other major urban centers in the territory of the Borrower.
Part B:   Expenditure Management
1.   Provision of technical assistance to MEF aimed at modernizing its
accounting framework, including:
     (a)  preparation of the specifications for an integrated financial
management system, including:
Page  10
          (i)  a global system of accounting based on generally accepted
               international principles;
         (ii)  a central accounting system including sub-systems for
               external assistance, budget preparation and execution,
               debt management, payroll management, individual
               projects performance assessment and tax administration;
               and
        (iii)  provision of computer hardware and software for the
               development of a debt management system; and
     (b)  coordination of training in accounting, comprising in-country
and overseas training as well as study tours to relevant public
administrations abroad.
2.   Provision of technical assistance to Borrower's agencies involved
in expenditure management, such as MEF and the Cour des Comptes, aimed
at strengthening such agencies' capabilities, including:
     (a)  internal and external auditing, and integral performance
auditing;
     (b)  review of the Borrower's legislative framework for auditing;
     (c)  in-country and overseas training, including study tours to
national auditing offices abroad; and
     (d)  fellowships with a foreign national audit office.
3.   Provision of technical assistance on debt and asset management,
including training through:
     (a)  established programs of international financial institutions;
and
     (b)  local seminars.
4.   Strengthening of the Borrower's public sector investment planning,
execution and monitoring.
Part C:   Human Resources Management System
1.   Carrying out of a civil service census, aimed at obtaining reliable
information on the number and identity of all civil servants in the
Borrower's payroll.
2.   (a)  Establishment of a central human resources and information
system to monitor and control the overall management of human
resources, aimed at enabling informed decisions on human resources
management and providing a sound base for future civil service reform
measures, through:
          (i)  technical assistance to MEF to establish, coordinate
               and manage a human resources and information management
               system; and
         (ii)  establishment of a modern and efficient central civil
               service file for Borrower's employees.
     (b)  Utilization of the human resources and information system
developed under Part C.2 (a) of the Project:
          (i)  to carry out an inventory and to organize existing
               information on all civil service and contractual
               positions;
         (ii)  cross-check such information against the payroll;
        (iii)  complete and verify the information obtained under
               Part C.1 of the Project; and
Page  11
         (iv)  computerize and link the Borrower's central civil
               service file with its payroll files, fiscal identity
               card file, and retirement files.
3.   Provision of computer and management training to MEF's staff on
the human resource and information system developed under Part C.2 of
the Project.
Part D:   Private Sector Development
1.   (a)  Provision of technical assistance to Technical Secretariat
for:
          (i)  reviewing modalities for divestiture of ownership and/or
               management of public assets proposed by financial
               intermediaries, and recommending appropriate strategies
               therefor;
         (ii)  analyzing legal issues and sector-specific issues related
               to any such divestiture modality;
        (iii)  carrying out of financial audits for selected state-
               owned enterprises; and
         (iv)  drafting of legal provisions (including legislation)
               required for divestiture.
     (b)  Provision of technical assistance for preparation of, and
transactions advice on, divestiture modalities for selected state-
owned enterprises, including financial and operational audits,
preparation of divestiture options, and hiring of investment advisors.
     (c)  Provision of office technology equipment and systems to
Technical Secretariat.
2.   (a)  Development and implementation of a comprehensive communi-
cations strategy for the Private Sector Development Program,
consisting of:
          (i)  sector and national campaigns aimed at educating
               interested parties and the public at large about the
               benefits of such Program and building broad-based
               support; and
         (ii)  international campaigns to divulge and assist in
               marketing said Program and the enterprises and/or
               assets involved.
     (b)  Design, production and dissemination of advertising and
collateral materials to support the execution of Part D.2 (a) of
the Project through various media, including television, radio and
print.
     (c)  Assessment of the knowledge and perceptions of the general
public and major interested parties regarding the Private Sector
Development Program, aimed at evaluating and enhancing the effective-
ness of Part D.2 (a) of the Project, such assessment to include
collection of qualitative and quantitative data through focus groups
and surveys.
     (d)  Organization of special events to educate major stake holders
about the Private Sector Development Program, including seminars for
members of Parliament, seminars and training programs for key public
officials, and seminars for employees of enterprises participating in
such Program.
3.   (a)  Preparation of legal and regulatory reforms in the sectors in
which the Borrower's agencies are currently providing services,
including electricity, telecommunications, maritime ports and airports
sectors, aimed at fostering private sector development, including:
          (i)  reviewing relevant legislation and regulations covering
Page  12
               market entry and exit, pricing, investment and quality
               standards;
         (ii)  drafting amendments to such legislation and regulations,
               as required; and
        (iii)  reviewing and coordinating the activities of each sector
               investment advisors, for the purposes of ensuring
               consistency across sectors.
     (b)  Strengthening of the Borrower's regulatory agencies for the
utilities included in the Private Sector Development Program, aimed at
developing and implementing strategies and measures consistent with
sector strategies and divestiture modalities developed under Part D.1
(b) of the Project and including:
          (i)  organizing and staffing the regulatory agencies;
         (ii)  developing a framework and defining responsibilities
               for such regulatory agencies;
        (iii)  fostering twinning arrangements with regulatory
               agencies in other countries;
         (iv)  providing training in technical and legal aspects of
               regulation; and
          (v)  supporting the pilot execution of selected regulatory
               functions.
Part E:   Public Sector Modernization
1.   Provision of technical assistance for the preparation of the
Borrower's public sector modernization action plan, which will
provide the analytical basis for the design and implementation of a
public sector modernization program, such action plan to comprise
the following subjects:
     (a)  consensus on the role of the Borrower's public sector;
     (b)  public service reform, including:
          (i)  coordination of public sector improvements under
               projects supported by various donors; and
         (ii)  functional reviews of selected ministries;
     (c)  public administration reform, including institutional
reordering, and rationalization and simplification of procedures
and key tasks;
     (d)  administrative and financial decentralization, including
the strengthening of basic municipal management; and
     (e)  updating of the legal framework governing the operations of
the Borrower's public sector.
2.   Carrying out of workshops and seminars to build ownership and
commitment to public sector modernization within all levels of the
Borrower's administration and among other stakeholders in the
decision-making process.
3.   Carrying out of a service delivery survey for selected sectors,
aimed at assessing strengths and weaknesses of the Borrower's public
sector, and establish performance benchmarks.
4.   Identification of possible partners for a large-scale training of
the Borrower's mid-level officials in key economic, technical and
management skills.
5.   Design of a strategy and mechanisms to improve communications
within the Borrower's agencies.
Page  13
Part F:   Project Implementation
     Operation of the Project Unit.
                                  * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                 Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods
Part A:   General
     Goods and aerophotography services for Part A of the Project shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in January 1995 revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines)
and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
the aerophotography services for Part A of the Project above shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Limited International Bidding
     (a)  Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
     (b)  The bidding procedure for procurement of computer hardware
and software shall be carried out in two stages in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the Guidelines.
2.   International and National Shopping
     The following may be procured under contracts awarded in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guide-
lines:
     (a)  goods estimated to cost more than $5,000 equivalent, but
less than $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $500,000, on the basis of international shopping procedures; and
     (b)  goods estimated to cost $5,000 equivalent or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $20,000, on the
basis of national shopping procedures.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts,
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to
the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procure-
ment of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Associa-
tion, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for goods or works awarded under
Parts B and C.1 hereof the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and
Page  14
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guide-
lines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been
agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms accept-
able to the Association shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each; or (b)
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less
than $25,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior
Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above; or
(e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual con-
sultants raising the contract value to $25,000 equivalent or above.
                              SCHEDULE 4
                           Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from
time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $750,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$3,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  15
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit
or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
               into the Special Account at such intervals as the
               Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association the docu-
               ments and other evidence required pursuant to para-
               graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments
               in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On
               the basis of each such request, the Association shall,
               on behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Credit
               Account and deposit into the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as
               shall have been shown by said documents and other               
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account
               for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Asso-
ciation, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit
of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the Eligible Categories less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories
for the Project shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
Page  16
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
