Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19520
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 3185-CM)
June 29, 1999
Rural Development 2
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
EXCHANGE RATE
1990 US$1 = CFAF 272
1992 US$1 = CFAF 265
1994 US$1 = CFAF 555
1996 US$1 = CFAF 512
1998 US$1 = CFAF 550
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
CAMEROON'S FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
Vice President    Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director    Serge Michailof
Sector Manager    Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Manager    Jan Weetj ens



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AVZ                Front line field staff (Agent Vulgarisation de Zone)
BA                 Beneficiary Assessment
CAA                Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CPA                Chief of Agricultural Unit (Chef de Poste Agricole)
DEPA               Division for Studies and Agricultural Projects (Division des Etudes et
Projets Agricoles)
FAO                Food and Agricultural Organization
IDA                International Development Association
IRA                Agricultural Research Institute (Institut de la Recherche Agronomique)
IRAD               Agricultural Research Institute for Development (Institut de Recherche
Agricole pour le Developpement)
IRZV               Livestock and Husbandry Practices Research Institute (Institut de
Recherche Zootechnique et Veterinaire)
M&E                Monitoring and Evaluation
MIDENO             Mission de De'veloppement Rural et Integre du Nord-Ouest
MINAGRI            Ministry of Agriculture (Ministere de l 'Agriculture)
MTR                Mid-term Review
MTRM               Monthly Technology Review Meeting
NGO                Non-Governmental Organization
PNVA               National Agricultural Extension Program (Programme National de
Vulgarisation Agricole)
SMS                Subject Matter Specialist
SODECAO            Cacao Development Company (Societt de Developpement du Cacao)
SODECOTON          Cotton Development Company (Societ& de Developpement du Coton)
SOP                Fanners Organizations Specialist (Specialiste des Organisations
Paysannes)
TLU                Testing and Liaison Unit
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. PREFACE ..............................................................I
2.  EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................................................. II
A. INTRODUCTION ..............................................................II
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES .............................................................                                                                II
C. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS ............................... ................. III
3. PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ......................................1
INTRODUCTION ..............................................................1
A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ...............................................2
B. ACHIEVEMIENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ............................................................3
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT .............................................................7
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ..............................................................9
E. BANK PERFORMANCE .............................................................                                                                 10
F. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE .............................................................                                                          11
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .............................................................                                                           12
H. FUTURE  OPERATIONS  ............................................................. 13
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .............................................................                                                              13
4. PART II: TABLES .............................................................                                                                      16
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .............................................................                                                    16
TABLE  2:  RELATED  BANK  LOANS/CREDITS .......................................                                        ...................... 17
TABLE3:  PROJECT TIMETABLE  ............................................................. 17
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ......... 18
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ................................................ 18
TABLE 6:  KEY  INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS ........................................................    19
TABLE  7:  STUDIES ............................................................. 19
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS .............................................................                                                            20
TABLE  8B:  PROJECT FINANCING  ............................................................. 20
TABLE  9:  ECONOMIC  COSTS AND  BENEFITS ............................................                                        ................. 20
TABLE  10:  STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .......................................                                           ...................... 21
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ................................ 22
TABLE  12:  BANK  RESOURCES:  STAFF INPUTS  .............................................................     22
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .............................................................                                                 23
5. APPENDIX A: MAPS ................................................................                                                                 24



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan 3185-CM)
1. PREFACE
1.1   This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the National Agricultural
Extension and Training project in Cameroon, for which a loan in the amount of US$21
million equivalent was approved on March 29, 1990 and made effective on January 22, 1991.
1.2   The loan was closed on December 31, 1998. It is expected to be fully disbursed, and
the last disbursement is expected to take place on June 30, 1999.
1.3   The ICR was prepared by Jan Weetjens (AFTR1) and reviewed by Joseph Baah-
Dwomoh (Sector Manager, AFTR2), Irene Xenakis (acting Sector Manager, AFTS2), and
Serge Michailof (Country Director, AFC07). Inputs were provided by Clotilde Ndomb
(AFMCM), Christopher Trapman, Bhagwanti Khushalani, Remileku Rakey Cole, and
Soulemane Fofana (AFTR2). The borrower contributed to preparing the ICR by undertaking
a beneficiary assessment and by commenting on previous drafts of this report.
1.4   The preparation of this ICR coincided with the final stages of the preparation of a
follow-up IDA Credit in support of the Cameroon Agricultural Extension and Research
program. The lessons the Borrower and the Bank could draw from the implementation of the
National Agricultural Extension and Training project have been addressed in the design of
the successor project.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan 3185-CM)
2. EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. INTRODUCTION
2.1   Since the 1960s, agricultural extension programs in Cameroon have been supported
through a variety of rural/area development projects. In the late 1970s, the Government
carried out an evaluation of these efforts and concluded that they were costly, fragmented,
and that they led to duplication of efforts and confusion among farmers. The Government
evaluation found that extension messages were often inappropriate and that staff did not
receive sufficient training and supervision. In an attempt to define a more successful and
sustainable agricultural extension strategy, the Ministry of Agriculture launched a pilot
project in four ecologically different provinces in 1988. The pilot project was designed to set
the stage for the preparation and implementation of a national agricultural extension and
training program by testing: (a) the coordination of extension with other development
activities, (b) the organization of training and workshops for field staff; (c) staff deployment;
(d) use of on-farm demonstration plots for technology transfer; and (e) establishing
mechanisms for flow of funds to the Provinces. Based on the lessons learned from the pilot
operation, the Agricultural Extension and Training project was prepared (1989/90) to
improve the efficiency of Cameroon's agricultural extension service. The Bank supported
the project with a US$21 million loan (Ln. 3185 CM) which was approved on March 29,
1990 and made effective on January 22, 1991.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.2   Project objectives and components. The project emphasized two objectives: the
first objective was to increase farmer productivity through (i) strengthening operational
institutions and establishing systems for managing the extension services; and (ii) providing
training to facilitate improved delivery of those services. The second objective was to
introduce a unified extension system in certain areas of the country as a means of
rationalizing existing overlapping provincial services'. Particular emphasis was to be placed
on the needs of women farmers under the project. The project aimed at achieving these
i     To be measured through management information system (MIS) and Beneficiary Assessments.



iii
objectives through four components: (a) the strengthening of the national extension service
to ensure regular visits to farmers and adequate support to front line staff; (b) a training
program aimed at upgrading the management, technical and communications skills of all
extension staff; (c) improvement of research extension/linkages; and (d) increasing the
availability of improved seeds. The project was designed to operate in six of the ten
provinces in the country2.
2.3    Evaluation of project objectives. The project objectives were consistent with the
national development objectives and were in line with the Bank's strategy for the agricultural
sector at that time. The project addressed the challenges to rationalize the extension efforts in
Cameroon, to strengthen work practices and professionalism, to provide regular training, and
to increase farmers' revenues. These objectives were generally achieved and this opened the
way for further evolutions such as reform of the institutional framework, increase of the
Government's financial responsibility for extension delivery, contracting out of extension,
and empowerment of farmers. The QAG Quality at Entry Assessment of the follow-up
project underscored the need to address these issues, which contributed to strengthen their
importance in the design of the follow-up project. The emphasis on women farmers was
relevant given the major role women play in the rural areas and in assuring food security.
Two important adjustments to the objectives were introduced as a result of supervision of
field activities. The first was the change in the approach to seed multiplication putting a
much greater emphasis on private intervention in the production and distribution of
commercial seeds. The second was the shift towards a focus on improvement in the capacity
of staff to identify priorities together with farmers. As a result, farming systems diagnosis
became top priority in the training of all extension staff.
C. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
2.4    Achievement of project objectives and sustainability. Considerable progress has
been made in achieving the project objectives. More than 40 percent of all farmers in the
project area now receive support from the extension service. While this is still below the full
coverage intended under the Ministry of Agriculture's extension policy, it is, nonetheless, a
major achievement: the 1997 Beneficiary Assessment (BA)3 revealed that 75 percent of
those receiving technical advice indicated that it was only with the implementation of PNVA
that they started to be in contact with the extension service. During the first years of project
implementation, adoption rates varied widely and raised questions about the relevance of
extension messages. A major training program in on-farm diagnosis was adopted in 1993 to
address this issue. A 1995 impact study4 concluded that in those areas where the extension
program  was being implemented, more than 80 percent of farmers were aware of the
existence of extension staff. Almost 60 percent of farmers covered by that study declared
2     In the four other provinces, services were being provided by major agricultural development agencies or
parastatals, namely MIDENO in the North West Province, SODECOTON in the Northern Province and SODECAO in the
Center and Southern Provinces.
3     Carried out in August 1997 by an independent consultant.
4     Carried out by independent consultants in January 1995.



iv
that they ceased to buy food crops for household consumption, since their own production
covered their needs. Yield increases of more than 20 percent were registered by almost 70
percent of farmers participating in extension contact groups. The BA found that 46 percent
of farmers in the 4 provinces surveyed had received advice in one form or another from
PNVA, and only 6 percent of the total number of farmers had no knowledge of PNVA's
existence. About 57 percent of farmers identified PNVA as their only source of practical
advice on agricultural and livestock production. 66 percent of all new techniques adopted by
farmers resulted in production increases varying from 10 percent to more than 50 percent for
the major crops in each of the four provinces surveyed.
2.5   As a result of the program, in September 1997 the Ministry of Agriculture and the
Ministry of Livestock adopted an agricultural extension policy, defining the basic principles,
the methodology, and the institutional framework for delivery of extension services.
2.6   There have been modest achievements in initiatives designed specifically to benefit
women farmers. The number of female staff in the extension network has increased from 22
to 86 and the number of women front line staff from 7 to 51, still a small fraction of the total
establishment. Attendance by women in contact groups is between 20 to 25 percent against
an objective of 30 percent. Low contact between (male) extension staff and female farmers
can be partly explained by existing cultural barriers (especially in the northern part of the
country). (Also see a more detailed discussion of this topic in § 3.15.)
2.7   Good progress was also made with regard to the following: (a) human resource
management including regular, on-the-job training; (b) management of the (public) extension
service; (c) linkages with the private sector and with farmers' associations through the
establishment of a specialized unit; and (d) seed production by small holder farmers
including the initiation of a pilot operation for providing advisory services to several hundred
seed producers.
2.8   Throughout the duration of the project, the following aspects continued to hamper
implementation: (a) weak financial management and inadequate flow of funds: slow
disbursements and submission of replenishment requests from provincial accounts created
constant arrears and delays in settling operating expenses of extension in the provinces.
Further, the stipulated levels of the Special Account with the Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement proved insufficient after CFA devaluation and agreements to increase the
ceiling of the special account took a considerable time due to lack of compliance with
necessary conditions by the Government; (b) slow procurement: delays seriously affected the
rate at which the project could operate, in particular to provide vehicles and motorcycles to
all staff; and (c) constraining institutional environment: the management procedures within
the Ministry of Agriculture (both with regard to human resource and financial management)
continued to be a bottleneck throughout project implementation. (For a more detailed
discussion, see chapter "B. Achievement of project objectives" in the main text).
2.9   The total cost of the project was about US$26.9 million. IBRD financed US$21
million and the Government of Cameroon financed US$5.9 million. No new staff were



v
recruited under the project. At appraisal, it was anticipated that two bilateral donors would
finance expatriate technical assistance for the adaptive research component, but this did not
materialize. By September 1997, 77 percent (US$16.1 million) of the original Loan amount
had been disbursed. Of the Government's input, approximately US$2.5 million was through
its contribution on procurement of goods and the rest (between US$0.5 and US$1.1 million
per annum) out of its recurrent budget for field staff operating expenses (postes agricoles).
2.10  No economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated in the SAR. Simple rates of return
were prepared comparing Government expenditure and the value of incremental production.
The different hypotheses showed rates of return in the range of 18 percent to 40 percent. Due
to the lack of a base-line study, it was not possible to calculate the ERR for this ICR. Given
the fact that the project costs were less than expected (resulting from a heavy reduction of
salaries in the public service and a 50 percent devaluation of the CFAF) and that both the BA
and the independent impact evaluation confirmed the assumptions made in the SAR on the
impact of adoption on production, it could be assumed that the ERR would be within the
range of the estimates of the SAR.
2.11   Major Factors in Achievement of Objectives.  The first few years of project
implementation were characterized by weak management, high unit costs of the extension
system and non performance of the research component. External factors which limited early
project performance included: (a) the weakness of the macro economic framework which
reduced profitability of agriculture; (b) non-availability of inputs following state withdrawal;
(c) frequent suspension of Bank disbursements due to Cameroon's inability to service its
debt; (d) low availability of counterpart funds; and (e) fall of commodity prices on the world
market since the late eighties. Poor management resulted in delayed procurement of
equipment and vehicles and delays in the completion of audits. In 1994, the Government
opted to reduce civil service salaries by 40 to 60 percent, rather than reducing the number of
staff in the public service. Surprisingly, this drastic salary reduction has not had the kind of
impact on the performance of the extension service that one might expect5. Significant
improvements in project performance followed the midterm review (MTR) in early 1995.
During the MTR, the project objectives were re-defined, issues with regard to management,
training of staff, research/extension linkages, and the scope of the program were addressed,
and a detailed action plan to improve the quality of program implementation was agreed
upon. The decision was taken shortly after the MTR to replace the national coordinator and
several key staff. These changes coincided with an improvement in rural terms of trade
following  the  CFAF  devaluation.   Project performance  picked  up  as a result.
Simultaneously, the number and quality of field missions by high level MINAGRI
headquarters staff improved. A more cost-effective distribution of front line staff resulted in
better coverage of the program. By the end of the project period, the annual cost of providing
agricultural extension services was estimated at the equivalent of US$7 to 8 per farm family.
5     This is probably due to the emphasis on training and supervision, as well as on the incentives for staff provided
under the project to continue to carry out field visits (even though there was an accumulation in arrears of payment of field
allowances due to weak financial management).



vi
(A more detailed description can be found in chapter "C. Implementation record and major
factors affecting the project").
2.12   Project Sustainability.  With regard to financial sustainability, the project design
provided for 100 percent financing of recurrent costs throughout the implementation period6.
Low levels of counterpart contributions suggested that it would be difficult for the
Government to ensure funding of the program in the longer term. During preparation of the
follow-up phase, a review was made of resources mobilized yearly by the Ministry of
Agriculture in support of all agricultural extension activities. The results of this review
showed that in 1996/97 the budgeted funding in support of extension services (including
salaries) was the equivalent of US$9 million, compared with a total recurrent budget for the
Ministry of Agriculture of more than US$25 million equivalent. With full national
coverage7, the total recurrent costs of the extension program would be the equivalent of
almost US$11 million. The key bottleneck to ensure financial sustainability of the program
is not the budget allocation for extension, but rather the proper and effective use of public
funds allocated to extension activities. At this stage, only about 30 to 40 percent of funds
released from the budgets of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Livestock are
actually available for financing of field activities. The other 60 to 70 percent of these public
resources is currently withheld by the various levels who intervene in the transfer of funds
from the central level to the field8. A comprehensive audit of the respective Ministries
involved, including the administrative and financial procedures, is part of the successor
project. As suggested by QAG's Quality at entry assessment, these audits have been
scheduled to be launched immediately after credit effectiveness of the successor project.
2.13   With regard to institutional sustainability, the project introduced proper management
and professionalism in the already existing national extension service. Regardless of the
continuation of donor support, the service would remain a priority in the national agricultural
sector strategy. Nevertheless, continued donor assistance would enhance the level of activity
and the scope of the program. No additional staff were recruited or special project units
created under the project9. It is important to note, however, that the institutional framework
(the organizational set-up of the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock) in which the
extension service operates is not yet sustainable without further support: a large majority of
staff within the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Livestock has no clear task
descriptions or work programs. While it would not have been realistic to address broader
institutional reform in the agricultural sector through this project, its implementation paved
6      It was the policy of the Africa Region since the mid to late 1980s not to start extension programs if the Bank's
support could not be sustained over a 15 to 20 year period. The aim of financial sustainability was to be attained over this
longer period, rather than over the five-year life span of one single project. This Regional policy was however not explicitly
mentioned in the SAR.
7      While all ten provinces participate in the program, not every province is fully covered at this stage.
8      Cf. Minutes of the meeting of February 4, 1999 with participation from the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry
of Livestock, the Ministry of Finance, the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement, and the World Bank. The Minutes are in the
annex to the March 15, 1999 supervision report.
9      Except for a three man teamn to strengthen the financial management unit.



vii
the way to open a dialogue with the respective Ministries involved on the need to address
these issue.
2.14 Performance of the Bank and Borrower. The Bank's performance during
preparation and appraisal was, in retrospect, only marginally satisfactory. The extension
program in Cameroon would have achieved more impact if stronger farmers' participation in
the technology generation process, private extension delivery within the framework of a
national extension policy, and stronger use of mass media had been included as pilots in the
design of the project10. The Bank's performance during supervision was satisfactory. In
addition to an average of two missions each year, for which regional extension specialists
were mobilized, regular supervision was provided for four and a half years from a task
manager based in Yaounde. Joint Bank/Government missions spent a high proportion of
their time in the field drawing lessons from visits to farmers and front line staff on how to
improve the program. Experience from other projects in SSA was used to help achieve
improvements in the national extension program and Bank supervisors from other resident
missions in Africa provided important inputs, both to this project and to the preparation of its
successor.
2.15  The Government's performance during preparation was unsatisfactory.  Its
participation was minimal at the outset of the preparation process. However, once agreement
was reached on the pilot operation, Government participation improved. The Government's
performance during implementation was marginally satisfactory. The early years of project
implementation were characterized by a high degree of centralization and lack of delegation
to the provinces. Central mnanagement both in the Ministry of Agriculture and IRAD was
weak and field operations were inadequately supported. This changed in 1995 following the
MTR, when the Ministry of Agriculture nominated a new central management team,
including the Director of Agriculture and the PNVA coordinator. However, procurement
delays and poor performarnce by the agricultural research institutes continued to hamper
project implementation. Supervision by project staff was linked in the early years of the
project to the rhythm of Bank supervision missions. Although regular supervision by
national and provincial staff improved during the last years of the project, there was still
room for improvement at the end of the project. (For a more detailed discussion, see chapters
"E. Bank performance" and "F. Borrower's performance").
2.16  Project Outcome. The project outcome was satisfactory. In spite of an inauspicious
start, the project has achieved its objectives. The impact on farmers' productivity was clearly
documented by the results of the Beneficiary Assessment. The Government established a
management system for the extension service and a large training program was implemented
to strengthen staff's technical, methodological, and managerial skills. The adoption of a
national extension policy was a critical step towards the rationalization of extension service
delivery in the country. Nevertheless, more needs to be done to come to stronger
collaboration and complementarity among various organizations active in extension. While
the role of women in the extension service has improved over the duration of the project
10    The QAG Quality at Entry Assessment of the follow-up project underscored the need to address these issues.



viii
implementation period, more challenges remain. Although the project was designed to cover
only six provinces, all ten provinces in the country were included. Under the project, closer
linkages with private agricultural input suppliers and agricultural merchants were developed.
(For a more detailed discussion, see chapter "G. Assessment of outcome").
2.17  Key lessons learned under the project include:
(a)   Even in an environment such as in Cameroon where the public service is in
dire need of reform, and where the organization of the Ministries involved is fraught
with problems, it is possible to increase considerably the impact of the public
extension service by focussing on proper management, including provision of regular
training and supervision of staff at all levels. These management principles have been
adopted in the national agricultural extension policy of Cameroon.
(b)   As illustrated by the increased effectiveness of the extension service, there is
an urgent need to address the issues of institutional reform in the agricultural sector in
Cameroon. These include clarification of the roles and functions of the various
Ministries involved, revamping of administrative procedures including procedures for
financial and human resource management, restructuring the organization of the
Ministries towards a stronger decentralization and reduction of staff at the HQ level,
sub-contracting of service delivery where possible, and an increased and systematic
involvement of beneficiaries and stakeholders in the planning and priority setting
processes.
(c)    The efficiency of the extension service is seriously hampered by the
constraints which are inherent to the Cameroonian civil service: human resource
management decisions are rarely determined by technical criteria, the incentive
structure is not related to performance, and there is virtually no possibility to sanction
non performing staff.  While the management of the extension service is more
decentralized than any other sector service delivery agency in the country, it is still
very much managed as a centralized bureaucracy. Under the follow-up project, the
Ministries involved will experiment with pilot operations to further decentralize
management, to sub-contract extension service delivery, and to empower
communities to increase their involvement in the extension service.
(d)   Taking its current budget allocation for extension into account, the Ministries
of Agriculture and of Livestock could take financial responsibility for a substantial
share of the recurrent cost (the project financed the recurrent costs at 100 percent).
This, however, will require a drastic improvement in the Ministries' financial
management procedures to ensure that funds released at the central level are actually
available for the financing of field operations. In the follow-up project, 65 percent of
recurrent costs will be financed out of the national budget.
(e)    The quality of the technical messages improves to the extent that front line
extension staff and subject matter specialists are better equipped and trained to listen
to farmers and to carry out farming system analysis. As illustrated by the BA,
adoption rates improved significantly as a result of a systematic effort to train



ix
extension staff in diagnostic techniques. Training on diagnostic skills and farming
system analysis figures prominently in the follow-up project.
(f)    As indicated by the QAG review, extension in Cameroon should take into
account public and private service delivery, incorporate traditional mass media and
modem information technology, strengthen community participation and oversight,
improve the M/E system, and further strengthen the research/extension linkages.
(g)   While the extension service had no major difficulties in establishing working
relationships with private input providers, the impact of over 15,000 demonstration
plots on use of inputs had relatively little impact on farmers' investments for non-cash
crops related inputs. This was mainly due to lack of credit availability. IFAD is in
the process of preparing an agricultural credit project, integrating lessons from past
experience with agricultural credit in Africa.
(h)   In spite of a gradual improvement over the course of project implementation,
issues which are more relevant to female farmers are still not sufficiently taken into
account by the extension service. More female front line staff will be recruited under
the follow-up project to increase access to women in those areas where there are
cultural barriers for effective contact between male extension staff and female
farmers. In addition, a special effort will be needed in the future to strengthen the
analytical skills of both researchers and extension staff to better understand the
technical intricacies of gender specific problems in agricultural production.
(i)    The organization of a baseline study, regular and independent surveys to
assess the impact of the operation on the ground, and an M/E system capable of
delivering accurate and timely information are critical to improve the quality of
extension.  In addition to the baseline study, the organization of two yearly
beneficiary assessments and impact evaluation studies are part of the design of the
follow-up project.  The follow-up project will also further expand on the
improvements to the M/E system that were integrated in 1997/98.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan 3185-CM)
3. PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
INTRODUCTION
3.1   Agriculture has always been key to economic sector growth in Cameroon. It provides
employment for about 75 percent of the national labor force, a livelihood for more than 1.3
million farm families. Despite the contribution of oil to the GDP since the late 70's, the
agricultural sector continues to make a significant input to economic growth. Agriculture
currently represents 40 percent of GDP and 41 percent of export revenues, an increase from
24 percent and 27 percent respectively at the beginning of the 1990s. Food crops account for
about half of agricultural GDP, followed by forestry (21 percent), export and industrial crops
(14 percent), livestock (11 percent) and fisheries (approximately 4 percent).
3.2   The deceleration in economic growth in Cameroon, which began in the early 1980s,
was due to a reduction in export revenue and was intensified by a decline in the country's
terms of trade as a result of an overvalued CFA franc. The consequent difficulties in
financing public sector activities prompted the Government to redefine its agricultural sector
policy as a means of ensuring food security. The new policy focused on measures for
creating a more favorable environment, specifically to reduce public sector intervention for
re-launching agricultural production, improve productivity and increase revenues. This
policy emerged from projects funded jointly by the Government, the Bank and other donors
since the late 1980s.
3.3   Since the 1960s, agricultural extension programs in Cameroon have been supported
through a variety of rural/area development projects. In the late 1970s, the Government
carried out an evaluation of these efforts and concluded that they were costly, fragmented,
and that they led to a duplication of efforts and confusion among farmers. The Government
evaluation found that extension messages were often inappropriate and staff did not receive
sufficient training and supervision. Attempts by the Ministry of Agriculture under its Fifth
Agricultural Development Plan (1981-86) to rectify these shortfalls were not very effective
due to difficulties in translating plans into actions. At the Government's request in 1987,
USAID, FAO and the Bank initiated work on the preparation of a national agricultural
extension and training project. In 1988, a national seminar on agricultural extension took
place which recommended a number of measures to strengthen extension services. These



2
included: (a) reorganizing the extension service to improve linkages between research and
extension and introducing more regularity in extension staff's field visits; (b) reinforcing the
role of the Ministry of Agriculture in extension activities and harmonizing the approach in
development parastatals; and (c) upgrading extension service staff through selection for
quality and regular training. However, the lack of a unified extension policy and the
uncertainties regarding the institutional framework led the Government of Cameroon to
postpone launching the project on a national scale. Instead, the Ministry of Agriculture
requested that recommendations for the proposed project first be tested in selected areas to
set the stage for the preparation of a National Agricultural Extension and Training Program.
3.4    An 18-month pilot project was launched in four ecologically different provinces in
1988. In preparation for the implementation of a national agricultural extension and training
program the pilot project tested: (a) the coordination of extension with other development
activities, (b) the organization of training and workshops for field staff; (c) staff deployment;
(d) use of on-farm demonstration plots for technology transfer; and (e) establishing
mechanisms for flow of funds to the Provinces. Based on the lessons leamed from the pilot
operation, the Agricultural Extension and Training project was prepared (1989/90) to
improve the efficiency of Cameroon's agricultural extension service. The Bank supported
the project with a $21 million loan (Ln. 3185 CM) which was approved on March 29, 1990
and made effective on January 22, 1991.
A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
3.5   Project objectives. The project emphasized two objectives: the first objective was to
increase farmer productivity through (i) strengthening operational institutions and
establishing systems for managing the extension services; and (ii) providing training to
facilitate improved delivery of those services. The second objective was to introduce a
unified extension system in certain areas of the country as a means of rationalizing existing
overlapping provincial services". Particular emphasis was to be placed on the needs of
women farmers under the project. The project was designed to operate in six of the ten
provinces in the country"2.
3.6   Project components. The project comprised four main components:
(a)    Extension:  reorganization and strengthening of national and regional
extension structures to incorporate the main principles of the T&V system. These
include systematic schedules of visits to farmers and effective technical support to
front-line extension agents by Subject Matter Specialists and MINAGRI line
managers.
To be measured through management information system (MIS) and Beneficiary Assessments.
12    In the four other provinces, services were being provided by major agricultural development agencies or
parastatals, namely MIDENO in the North West Province, SODECOTON in the Northern Province and SODECAO in the
Center and Southern Provinces.



3
(b)   Training: a training program aimed at upgrading the management, technical
and communications skills of all extension staff. It comprised orientation and
refresher courses, predominantly in-service, but also limited short-term overseas
technical training.
(c)   Adaptive research: improvement of research extension/linkages through a
more direct involvement of research staff in adaptive research and farm trials, and the
active participation of extension staff and farmers in adaptive research field trials.
(d)   Seed multiplication: support to IRA for the production of base seed, and
extending the existing seed multiplication system using project farmers, front line
staff and public seed farms.
3.7   Evaluation of objectives. The project objectives were consistent with the national
development objectives and were in line with the Bank's strategy for the agricultural sector at
that time. The project addressed the challenges to rationalize the extension efforts in
Cameroon, to strengthen work practices and professionalism, to provide regular training, and
to increase farmers' revenues. The achievement of these objectives opened the way for
further evolutions such as reform of the institutional framework, increase of the
Government's financial responsibility for extension delivery, contracting out of extension,
and empowerment of farmers. The QAG Quality at Entry Assessment of the follow-up
project underscored the need to address these issues, which has contributed to strengthen
their importance in the design of the follow-up project. The emphasis on women farmers was
relevant given the major role women play in the rural areas and in assuring food security.
Two important corrections to the objectives were introduced as a result of supervision of field
activities. The first was the change in the approach to seed multiplication putting a much
greater emphasis on private intervention in the production and distribution of commercial
seeds. The second was the shift towards a focus on improvement in the capacity of staff to
identify priorities together with farmers. As a result, fanning systems diagnosis became top
priority in the training of 2,000 extension staff.
B. ACHIEVEMIENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.8   Increase farmers' productivity. Both the 1995 impact evaluation and the 1997
Beneficiary Assessment (BA) demonstrate solid evidence of project impact with regard to
increases in farmers' productivity. 94 percent of all respondents in the BA were aware of
PNVA's existence and more than half (57 percent) confirmed PNVA advice as their principal
source of information. 66 percent of farmers reported production increases ranging from 10
percent to more than 50 percent for the major crops. Of the farmers who acknowledged
increases in their production, 46 percent considered improvements to be due to messages
introduced by PNVA alone and a further 20 percent added that such improvements were due
to a combination of PNVA and other factors. For some farmers in the Eastern Province,
crops such as groundnuts, plantain and cassava have now become sources of income, where
previously they were purely subsistence crops. Incomes from these crops, depending on crop
and size of holding, range from US$75 to US$300 a year. For those messages that had an
impact on farmers' productivity - mainly low-investment/low risk innovations - adoption



4
rates ranged from 55 percent (post-harvest storage) to 83 percent (composting and use of
manure)"3. Nevertheless, not all messages were equally well adopted: adoption rates for
more than 100 technical messages varied widely, illustrating their questionable relevance. In
the BA, only 60 percent of farmers claimed that extension staff associated them in defining
technical messages and front line staff themselves stated that more than a third of the
technical messages discussed during training sessions did not necessarily relate to farmers'
problems. This confirmed conclusions from the 1995/96 project reports as well as the 1995
impact study. These findings prompted in 1997 the start-up of a major training program in
on-farm diagnosis for both extension and research staff.
3.9    Institutional   strengthening.          The   clearer  task   descriptions,  increased
professionalism, supervision and training of the 2,000 staff working in the extension program
(25 percent of the Ministries' work force) has definitely strengthened the extension
program"'. The project managed to replace a multitude of extension services operated by
now defunct parastatal agencies. A unit, responsible for strengthening ties with the private
sector and providing support to farmers' associations, was established'5. Nevertheless,
important weaknesses remain in terms of management capacity, institutional framework,
financial management, and  monitoring  and  evaluation.   The  first years of program
implementation were characterized by very weak central management. After the MTR, it was
decided to put in place a new (and much stronger) management team. This had an impact on
the quality of the operation on the ground. Nevertheless, the project continued to suffer from
the overall weak management capacity within the respective Ministries. Also the highly
centralized structure of the Ministry'6 constituted - and continues to be - a major bottleneck
for the effective implementation of the program. The role of the various line Ministries
involved in extension remained confused and problematic throughout the course of project
implementation. The Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Livestock, the Ministry of
Scientific Research and - to a lesser extent - the Ministry of Environment were never able to
establish clear implementation arrangements with regard to their respective roles in
extension'7. It was only with the preparation of the follow-up project that these issues started
to be addressed in a more systematic way.
3.10 Extension management. Through the project, the Cameroon National Extension
Service made substantial progress with regard to the effectiveness of the delivery of
13     Specifically main messages with in-line planting (80 percent), coffee pruning (82 percent), plantain banana
planting (71 percent), cassava growing techniques (69 percent), post harvest storage (55 percent), use of inputs (81 percent)
composting and use of manure (83 percent), contour cultivation (74 percent).
14     One of the spin-offs of this improved managerial structure was that the Presidential Secretariat for Public Sector
Reform decided to use the organization of the extension service as the basis for its proposals for the creation of a new
Ministry for Rural Development which would integrate various services that are now spread over a large number of
Ministries.
1 5    Considerable progress has been made in developing linkages with private input suppliers and agricultural
merchants. The challenge remains more important with regard to links with farmers' associations: only 65 out of 372
farmers' organizations interviewed during the BA said they had links with the project.
16     E.g. each human resource decisions had to be approved by the Minister.
17     In spite of the signing of conventions between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Scientific Research
(1996) and between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Livestock (1997).



5
extension on the ground. In 1995, about 80,000 farmers were in regular contact with
extension staff representing about 10 percent of the farming population in the six provinces
covered at that time. Most of these farmers (75 percent) had their first contacts with
extension after the launching of the program in their region". By the 1997/98 season, more
than 100,000 (up from 32,000 in 1995) demonstration plots were established by farmers,
representing an average of about 70 demonstrations per front line extension worker"9. The
establishment of these demonstration units was carried out by almost 57,000 (up from 9,000
in  1993/94) contact groups.   The introduction  of clear task  descriptions contributed
substantially to the quality and the intensity of the supervision efforts. For example, 10,000
supervision visits were carried out in 1994/95 and 8,000 in 1995/96. Although these figures
seem high, it illustrates that only about 50 percent of the objectives in terms of number of
supervision visits was attained20. The fact that the supervision effort was not more intense,
was mainly due to the logistical and financial constraints. Another challenge was the quality
of the supervision visits. Many supervisory staff saw there role more as "policing" than as
effective support to front line staff. Both during visits from the central management unit and
during WB supervision missions, special attention was given to the methodology of field
supervision which led to some improvements. Nevertheless, the quality of supervision
remains a challenge to be addressed.
3.11   Training.   The in-service training2"  constituted  one of the pillars of project
implementation. While prior to the project implementation hardly any in-service training
was provided, the project organized from 500 to 800 fortnightly training sessions and
between 40 and 65 Monthly Technical Review Meetings (MTRMs) every year. One of the
major steps to improve the quality of these training sessions was the systematic association of
farmers by organizing fortnightly training sessions and the MTRMs in farmers' fields. In
addition to the technical training, staff also participated in annual workshops to review their
terms of reference and working methodologies. While the training sessions for front line
staff have evolved from lectures in classrooms to participatory sessions in farmers' fields,
still more work needs to be done to improve the quality of training. In this respect, the
participation of members of the national team in regional "training of trainers" workshops
was very beneficial. Cameroonian delegations also participated in regional workshops on the
organization of MTRMs and on participatory diagnostic methodologies.
3.12 Research/Extension linkages. Weaknesses remained throughout the period of
project implementation with regard to research/extension linkages. During the two first years
18     This corroborates the findings of the 1996/97 launching workshops conceming extension delivery through NGOs
and other private organizations: farmers who live within relatively close distance from major urban centers mainly have
access to these services, whereas farmers in more remote areas, generally speaking, have only the public service as their
source of extension advice.
19     The objective was to have 40 demonstration units per extension worker. There has been a regular increase in the
number of demonstration units each year since project start-up from 19 units in 1991/92 to 46 units in 95/96 and 70 units in
97/98. One of the major reasons explaining this dramatic increase was the effort to systematically invite farmers to repeat
demonstration plots in their own fields.
20     In general, each staff was visited about once per month, whereas the objective was to have at least two visits.
21     Fortnightly training for front line staff, Monthly Technical Review Meetings (MTRM) for subject matter
specialists and researchers, workshops at the provincial, national, and regional level.



6
of the project, contacts between extension and research went mainly through the USAID
funded Training and Liaison Units.   When USAID  support for these units ended,
multidisciplinary research teams were identified in the various stations to ensure continuous
contact with extension. In spite of these formal linkages, it was only after the MTR that a
systematic program was laumched to train both researchers and extension staff with regard to
participatory diagnostic skills. Staff attended several training workshops elsewhere in Africa,
which led to a major training effort on this topic throughout 1997 and 1998.  While
researchers participated systematically in monthly technical review meetings, technical
messages were often not sufficiently related to farmers' priority constraints. With the
strengthening of diagnostic skills of both researchers and extensionists, efforts were made to
address this challenge.
3.13   Introduction of a unified extension system.  As a result of the program, in
September 1997 the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Livestock adopted an
agricultural extension policy defining the basic principles, the methodology, and the
institutional framework for delivery of extension services. The policy emphasizes the
importance of the extension service addressing farmers' constraints and is based on principles
developed within the project. These include: cost effectiveness, professionalism, single line
of command, concentration of efforts, ensuring farmers' access to technical know-how,
regular and continuous training of extension staff, close farmners - extension - research
linkages, monitoring and evaluation of activities, and support to farmers' organizations. The
project was less successful in the rationalization of overlapping extension services. During
the first four years of project implementation, the Ministry of Agriculture was the only
organization that was actively engaged and there was no meaningful dialogue between
various stakeholders and extension service providers. The MTR recommended actions to
redress this situation. When the program started in the four remaining provinces (1996/97),
representatives of projects, agencies, NGOs, and other potential partners such as universities,
farmer associations and donors were invited to participate in the launching workshops. An
average of 20 different institutions took part in each of these workshops22.
3.14 Monitoring and Evaluation. The results with regard to M/E were mixed: on the
one hand, the Beneficiary Assessment and the independent impact evaluation proved to be
very valuable sources of information for the improvement of the performance of the
extension service. Also, a simplified internal M/E system was introduced in 1998 whereby
data on the effectiveness of operations are available in a systematic and timely fashion. On
the other hand, the lack of a baseline study makes it very difficult to accurately assess the
impact of the program. This was a serious omission in the design of the project which is
corrected with regard to the follow-up project. The DEPA, which is responsible for the
external monitoring of project implementation, did not have enough resources to assume this
responsibility. The MIE system which was used during most of the period of project
implementation was overly bureaucratic and failed to generate timely and reliable data for
22     Based on this experience, the Ministry of Agriculture endeavored to organize similar workshops in the original
six provinces where the project was already operating. Nevertheless, much more remains to be done to come to a full
coordination of the various actors (public as well as private) involved in extension service delivery.



7
managers and decision makers. It is only during the last year of project implementation that
a consolidated effort was made (under the impulse of the Bank's supervision missions) to
simplify and improve the M/E system.
3.15 Attention to women farmers' needs. The efforts provided to address women's
constraints through the extension service fell short of the intended objectives. Only between
20 percent and 25 percent of the farmers meeting with extension staff were women and only
25 percent of farmers confirmed in the BA that field staff made special efforts to include
women in the contact groups. The number of female staff in the extension network increased
from 22 to 86 over the course of project implementation and the number of women front line
staff increased from 7 to 51 (out of a total of 1,466 front line staff) during the samne period.
One of the main challenges that remains to be addressed is the systematic inclusion of
analysis of women-specific constraints during the participatory farming system diagnosis.
While it is true that in some regions, such as the North, female extension staff are critical to
establish good working relationships with female farmers, it is also true that the recruitment
of female extension staff alone is not enough: there is a need to have sufficient attention to
women's needs in the process of identification of technical messages. This is included in the
design of the follow-up project.
3.16 Availability of improved seeds. The project was designed to support public seed
farms with equipment, public purchasing, and distribution of seeds. Field staff were to
participate in the production of seeds.  In the absence of a national seeds strategy,
disbursements for this component were negligible and the component was dropped from the
project during the MTR. Nevertheless, the project started a pilot operation for providing
advisory services to private small scale seed producers in 1993. The results have been
encouraging, notably in the Eastern Province, where several hundred farmers now produce
improved seeds for sale to their neighbors. In addition, the PNVA private sector support unit
initiated agreements in 1996/97 with two major private seed producers for maize seeds and
oil palm seedlings. The results of this initiative have been quite successful: for example,
sales of hybrid maize seed increased by over 200 percent between 1996 and 1997.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
3.17  The project was designed initially to cover 6 of the 10 provinces since services were
being provided to other regions by parastatals. However, following the borrower's decision
to establish a national unified extension system, project coverage was extended to the whole
country subsequent to the midterm review in early 1996.
3.18  The first few  years of project implementation were characterized by weak
management, high unit costs of the extension system and non performance of the research
component. External factors which limited early project performance include: (a) the
weakness of the macro economic framework which reduced profitability of agriculture; (b)
non-availability of inputs following state withdrawal; (c) frequent suspension of Bank
disbursements due to Cameroon's inability to service its debt; (d) low availability of



8
counterpart funds; and (e) fall of commodity prices on the world market since the late
eighties. Poor management resulted in delayed procurement of equipment and vehicles and
delays in the completion of audits. In 1994, the Government opted to reduce civil service
salaries by 40 to 60 percent, rather than reducing the number of staff in the public service.
Surprisingly, this drastic salary reduction has not had the kind of impact on the performance
of the extension service that one might expect23. Nevertheless, the present compensation
package and salary structure are such that it is virtually impossible to attract qualified staff -
not only within extension, but in the public service as a whole. Significant improvements in
project performance followed the midterm review (MTR) in early 1995. During the MTR,
the project objectives were re-defined, issues with regard to management, training of staff,
research/extension linkages, and the scope of the program were addressed, and a detailed
action plan to improve the quality of program implementation was agreed upon. This led to
redefining the relationship between agriculture staff and research staff, followed by the
adoption of the principle of client/supplier relationship governing the services to be provided
by the new Research Institute for Agricultural Development (IRAD). These changes
coincided with an improvement in rural terms of trade following the CFAF devaluation.
Project performance picked up as a result. Simultaneously, the number and quality of field
missions by high level MINAGRI headquarters staff improved. A  more cost-effective
distribution of front line staff resulted in better coverage of the program. By the end of the
project period, the annual cost of providing agricultural extension services was estimated at
the equivalent of US$7 to 8 per farm family.
3.19   Program activities relied heavily on the timely availability of funds to ensure regular
training, supervision, monitoring and evaluation and research activities. Delays in preparing
replenishment requests for the six provincial accounts led to an accumulation of arrears in
reimbursement of subsistence and training expenses of extension and research staff. Since
1996, following more intensive supervision both by the project financial controllers and by
the Bank, there was an improvement in the regular submission of replenishment requests
from the provinces. Changes in staffing in the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement the same
year led to new delays in submitting consolidated disbursement requests to the Bank. This,
combined with the increased demands on the project Special Account from the four
additional provinces, led to severe cash flow problems for the project in 1996 and 1997.
Government requested an increase in the level of the Special Account to resolve these
difficulties. However, the Bank's Disbursement Division restrained such an agreement to the
reimbursement of the balances of so-called "motorcycle depreciation" accounts24. The
accounts were duly repaid to the Bank, but the delays to increase the Special Account had
23     This is probably due to the emphasis on training and supervision, as well as on the incentives for staff provided
under the project to continue to carry out field visits (even though there was an accumulation in arrears of payment of field
allowances due to weak financial management).
24     These accounts had been set up in each province to assist the Ministry of Agriculture to replace motorcycles
purchased by the project (with Bank loan funds), once the first generation of those motorcycles reached the end of their
useful life. Since the Bank met the costs of field staff allowances, from which "motorcycle accounts" were funded, the
Disbursement Division considered that this represented double payment from the loan. The Government and some Bank
staff did not share this point of view, which remained one of the few major points of divergence between the Bank and the
Government during project implementation.



9
serious effects on both field staff morale and created major difficulties for project
management.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
3.20   Project Sustainability.  With regard to financial sustainability, the project design
provided for 100 percent financing of recurrent costs throughout the implementation period25.
Low levels of counterpart contributions suggested that it would be difficult for the
Government to ensure funding of the program in the longer term. During preparation of the
follow-up phase, a review was made of resources mobilized yearly by the Ministry of
Agriculture in support of all agricultural extension activities. The results of this review
showed that in 1996/97 the budgeted funding in support of extension services (including
salaries) was the equivalent of US$9 million, compared with a total recurrent budget for the
Ministry of Agriculture of more than US$25 million equivalent. With full national
coverage26, the total recurrent costs of the extension program would be the equivalent of
almost US$11 million. The key bottleneck to ensure financial sustainability of the program
is not the budget allocation for extension, but rather the proper and effective use of public
funds allocated to extension activities. At this stage, only about 30 to 40 percent of funds
released from the budgets of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Livestock are
actually available for financing of field activities. The other 60 to 70 percent of these public
resources is currently withheld by the various levels who intervene in the transfer of funds
from  the central level to the field27. A comprehensive audit of the respective Ministries
involved, including the administrative and financial procedures, is part of the successor
project. As suggested by QAG's Quality at entry assessment, these audits have been
scheduled to be launched immediately after credit effectiveness of the successor project.
3.21   With regard to institutional sustainability, the project introduced proper management
and professionalism in the already existing national extension service. Regardless of the
continuation of donor support, the service would remain a priority in the national agricultural
sector strategy. Nevertheless, continued donor assistance would enhance the level of activity
and the scope of the program. No additional staff were recruited or special project units
created under the project28. It is important to note, however, that the institutional framework
(the organizational set-up of the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock) in which the
extension service operates is not yet sustainable without further support: a large majority of
staff within the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Livestock has no clear task
descriptions or work programs. While it would not have been realistic to address broader
25     It was the policy of the Region since the mid to late 1980s not to start extension programs if the Bank's support
could not be sustained over a 15 to 20 year period. The aim of financial sustainability was to be attained over this longer
period, rather than over the five-year life span of one single project. This Regional policy was however not explicitly
mentioned in the SAR.
26     While all ten provinces participate in the program, not every province is fully covered at this stage.
27     Cf Minutes of the meeting of February 4, 1999 with participation from the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry
of Livestock, the Ministry of Finance, the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement, and the World Bank. The Minutes are in the
annex to the March 15, 1999 supervision report.
28     Except for a three man team to strengthen the financial management unit.



10
institutional reform in the agricultural sector through this project, its implementation paved
the way to open a dialogue with the respective Ministries involved on the need to address
these issue.
3.22  Project costs and financing. The total cost of the project was about US$26.9
million. IBRD financed US$21 million and the Government of Cameroon financed US$5.9
million. No new staff were recruited under the project. At appraisal, it was anticipated that
two bilateral donors would finance expatriate technical assistance for the adaptive research
component, but this did not materialize. By September 1997, 77 percent (US$16.1 million)
of the original Loan amount had been disbursed. Of the Government's input, approximately
US$2.5 million was through its contribution on procurement of goods and the rest (between
US$0.5 and US$1.1 million per annum) out of its recurrent budget for field staff operating
expenses (postes agricoles).
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
3.23 Project Preparation. Project preparation started in the mid-1980s. There were some
initial concerns shared by the Bank, USAID and FAO/CP about the Government's insistence
to build the project on existing administrative structures. The Ministry of Agriculture's
services had been considered weak for years, an argument which had served to justify the
creation of independent coordination units under earlier projects. In order to test the different
proposals, the Bank and the Government agreed to start a pilot operation in four provinces
and to work out the final project design based on the experience of this pilot over the
following 18 months. The Bank reacted swiftly and transferred funds from the ongoing
Western Province project to enable the start of the pilot operation in 1988. While objectives
were valid, the institutional arrangements for the project could have been better thought
through. More specifically, the involvement of a wide variety of stakeholders, various
mechanisms for sub-contracting extension delivery, and stronger say of beneficiaries over the
management of the program could have been included in the project design.
3.24  Project supervision. Supervision by the Bank was satisfactory. In addition to an
average of two missions each year, for which regional extension specialists were mobilized,
regular supervision was provided during four and a half years from a task manager based in
Yaounde. Supervision missions raised technical and management issues in their reports
during the early years. The mid-term review represented a major participative effort in
addressing outstanding problems. Several modifications were made after the MTR and
supervision was intensified. Joint Bank/Government missions spent a high proportion of
their time in the field drawing lessons from visits to farmers and front line staff on how to
improve the program. Experience from other projects in SSA was used to help achieve
improvements in the national extension program and Bank supervisors from other resident
missions in Africa provided important inputs, both to this project and to the preparation of its
successor. Supervision intensified as preparation of the follow-up project began in 1995/96
and later missions included Bank financial specialists. On the Country Director's request, the
Bank also organized a review of the quality at entry of the successor program. This review
was instrumental to increase the focus on sub-contracting of extension delivery, revamping



11
the organization of the Ministries involved, increasing farmers' say over the management of
the extension service, and increasing the Govermment's responsibility for the financing of the
program.
F. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
3.25 Project preparation. Government's participation was minimal at the outset of the
preparation process.  However, once agreement was reached on the pilot operation,
Government provided a preparatory document spelling out the objectives for the extension
operation and participated in the various missions. The Government team comprised staff of
both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Planning.
3.26  Project implementation. Government's performance during implementation was
marginally satisfactory. The early years of project implementation were characterized by a
high degree of centralization and lack of delegation to the provinces. Central management
both in the Ministry of Agriculture and IRAD was weak and field operations were
inadequately supported. Modifications were made to improve this following the MTR in
1995. The Ministry of Agriculture nominated a new central management team, including the
Director of Agriculture and the PNVA coordinator. A change in the research coordinator in
1997 brought the two central teams of research and extension closer together.
3.27  Procurement delays were encountered from project start-up. They were due to the
centralization of responsibility for procurement within the Ministry of Agriculture and to a
dysfunctional central directorate for major contracts, which added months to procurement
procedures.  Some improvement was noted in 1996, when major procurement was
decentralized to individual Ministries.  Lack of familiarity with Bank procurement
procedures by staff within the Ministry of Agriculture's procurement services, and lack of an
efficient filing system were the main causes of problems with procurement. An independent
procurement audit, ordered by the Bank, was carried out at the time of the preparation of this
ICR. The preliminary audit report confirmed the weak capacity with regard to procurement.
The country team will discuss appropriate actions to remedy this situation with the Borrower
as soon as all the information on existing weaknesses and strengths will be available.
3.28  Performance by the agricultural research institute (IRA) was weak. The institute went
through a period of major disruptions, with unpaid salaries and strikes by researchers,
following the public financing crisis in the early 1990s. The dissolution of the two major
research institutes (IRA and IRZV) in 1996, and the replacement of these two institutes by
one agricultural research institute (IRAD), did little to improve things as no decisions on
senior staffing for IRAD were taken for more than 18 months. Field level activities of
research staff were impeded by a tendency to concentrate activities on on-station research and
by administrative constraints stemming the funding of both extension and research activities
through one single account at the provincial level. Reliance on the Testing and Liaison Units
was ineffectual, and gave way to the creation of pluridisciplinary teams of researchers. The
new arrangement privileged only a few researchers on each station and created some
difficulties for station management.  The pluridisciplinary research teams have been



12
disbanded and IRAD will in the future mobilize those research staff who respond best to the
demands of the extension services.
3.29  Project supervision. Supervision of provincial activities was linked, in the early
years of the project, to the rhythm of Bank supervision missions. Although regular
supervision by provincial, regional, and sectoral staff improved during the last years of the
project, there was still room for improvement on this at the end of the project. Regular
supervision by central staff intensified considerably with the nomination of the new
coordination team in 1995. At the same time, missions to the field led by the Minister of
Agriculture and other senior staff also increased. Improvements in supervision techniques
are needed at all levels and figure as one of the priorities in the training program of the
successor project.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
3.30  The project outcome was satisfactory. In spite of an inauspicious start, the project has
achieved its objectives. The impact on farmers' productivity was clearest documented by the
results of the Beneficiary Assessment. The Government established a management system
for the extension service and a large training program was implemented to strengthen staff's
technical, methodological, and managerial skills. The adoption of a national extension policy
was a critical step towards the rationalization of extension service delivery in the country.
Nevertheless, more needs to be done to come to stronger collaboration and complementarity
among various organizations active in extension. While the role of women in the extension
service has improved over the duration of the project implementation period, more challenges
remain, especially with regard to the recruitment of female extension staff and a stronger
focus on female farmers' constraints in the process of technology generation. The project
was designed to be implemented in only six provinces. However, by the end of the
implementation period, all ten provinces in the country were included. Under the project,
closer linkages with private agricultural input suppliers and agricultural merchants were
developed. The role of the staff in charge of these linkages will certainly evolve, with a long
term vision that they would eventually be absorbed by the private sector or by farmers'
associations.
3.31  While the project achieved its objectives, the broader issues of reform in the
agricultural sector (which were not included in the project design) were not addressed. As
highlighted by the QAG assessment of quality at entry of the successor project, the
institutional framework of the Ministry of Agriculture and of the Ministry of Livestock needs
restructuring. In addition, the evolutions in extension delivery call for the implementation of
arrangements of sub-contracting of extension services, more emphasis on mass media, and
the introduction of participatory approaches whereby extension management and staff
become (also) accountable to the beneficiaries. These issues are being addressed under the
follow-on project.
3.32  No economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated in the SAR. Simple rates of return
were prepared comparing Government expenditure and the value of incremental production.



13
The different hypotheses showed rates of return in the range of 18 percent to 40 percent. Due
to the lack of a base-line study, it was not possible to calculate the ERR for this ICR. Given
the fact that the project costs were less than expected (resulting from a heavy reduction of
salaries in the public service and a 50 percent devaluation of the CFAF) and that both the BA
and the independent impact evaluation confirmed the assumptions made in the SAR on the
impact of adoption on production, it could be assumed that the ERR would be within the
range of the estimates of the SAR.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
3.33  The loan funded a series of workshops aimed at involving the main actors in the
agricultural sector (fanners, administrators, NGOs, private companies) to fix priorities for
future public sector investment in the rural development. The preliminary results of this
exercise have shown that micro-finance, rural infrastructure, and extension are the three key
needs of the sector. While the Bank has already approved the successor project to support
extension, it may also consider support to rural infrastructure as part of the assistance strategy
for Cameroon. IFAD is in the process of preparing a micro-finance operation.
3.34  On the strength of the successful experience of the project, a new IDA credit was
appraised in June 1997. Objectives continue to emphasize the delivery of sustainable
agricultural and livestock advisory services, backed by relevant research, as the key to
improving agricultural productivity and incomes. The project will continue to support
agricultural extension and training activities for both men and women farmers and will
pursue the private sector linkage initiative started under the previous project. Rationalization
of services in the rural areas will be an objective, contributing to more efficient use of limited
external and local public sector resources. Under the guidance of the QAG review, a strong
emphasis was put on a number of pilot operations to test various options for a more
sustainable institutional framework for the provision of extension services. These include the
involvement of various stakeholders in service delivery and the empowerment of
communities over the management of rural services. In addition, the follow-up project
provides for institutional audits of both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of
Livestock. Efforts to associate other donors in the program will continue. As demands for
more sophisticated technical messages make themselves felt from farmers, so the need for
more qualified technical staff will be needed. The new project includes a component to
strengthen basic and in-service training of agricultural technicians, using the existing
structure of agricultural colleges.
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
3.35  Key lessons learned under the project include:
(a)   Even in an environment such as in Cameroon where the public service is in
dire need of reforn, and where the organization of the Ministries involved is fraught
with problems, it is possible to increase considerably the impact of the public
extension service by focussing on proper management, including provision of regular



14
training and supervision of staff at all levels. These management principles have been
adopted in the national agricultural extension policy of Cameroon.
(b)   As illustrated by the increased effectiveness of the extension service, there is
an urgent need to address the issues of institutional reform in the agricultural sector in
Cameroon. These include clarification of the roles and functions of the various
Ministries involved, revamping of administrative procedures including procedures for
financial and human resource management, restructuring the organization of the
Ministries towards a stronger decentralization and reduction of staff at the HQ level,
sub-contracting of service delivery where possible, and an increased and systematic
involvement of beneficiaries and stakeholders in the planning and priority setting
processes.
(c)   The efficiency of the extension service is seriously hampered by the
constraints which are inherent to the Cameroonian civil service: human resource
management decisions are rarely determined by technical criteria, the incentive
structure is not related to performance, and there is virtually no possibility to sanction
non performing staff. While the management of the extension service is more
decentralized than any other sector service delivery agency in the country, it is still
very much managed as a centralized bureaucracy. Under the follow-up project, the
Ministries involved will experiment with pilot operations to further decentralize
management, to sub-contract extension service delivery, and to empower
communities to increase their involvement in the extension service.
(d)   Taking its current budget allocation for extension into account, the Ministries
of Agriculture and of Livestock could take financial responsibility for a substantial
share of the recurrent cost (the project financed the recurrent costs at 100 percent).
This, however, will require a drastic improvement in the Ministries' financial
management procedures to ensure that funds released at the central level are actually
available for the financing of field operations. In the follow-up project, 65 percent of
recurrent costs will be financed out of the national budget.
(e)   The quality of the technical messages improves to the extent that front line
extension staff and subject matter specialists are better equipped and trained to listen
to farmers and to carry out farming system analysis. As illustrated by the BA,
adoption rates improved significantly as a result of a systematic effort to train
extension staff in diagnostic techniques. Training on diagnostic skills and farming
system analysis figures prominently in the follow-up project.
(f)    As indicated by the QAG review, extension in Cameroon should take into
account public and private service delivery, incorporate traditional mass media and
modem information technology, strengthen community participation and oversight,
improve the M/E system, and further strengthen the research/extension linkages.
(g)   While the extension service had no major difficulties in establishing working
relationships with private input providers, the impact of over 15,000 demonstration
plots on use of inputs had relatively little impact on fanners' investments for non-cash
crops related inputs. This was mainly due to lack of credit availability. IFAD is in the



15
process of preparing an agricultural credit project, integrating lessons from past
experience with agricultural credit in Africa.
(h)   In spite of a gradual improvement over the course of project implementation,
issues which are more relevant to female farmers are still not sufficiently taken into
account by the extension service. More female front line staff will be recruited under
the follow-up project to increase access to women in those areas where there are
cultural barriers for effective contact between male extension staff and female
farmers. In addition, a special effort will be needed in the future to strengthen the
analytical skills of both researchers and extension staff to better understand the
technical intricacies of gender specific problems in agricultural production.
(i)    The organization of a baseline study, regular and independent surveys to
assess the impact of the operation on the ground, and an M/E system capable of
delivering accurate and timely information are critical to improve the quality of
extension.  In addition to the baseline study, the organization of two yearly
beneficiary assessments and impact evaluation studies are part of the design of the
follow-up project.  The follow-up project will also further expand on the
improvements to the M/E system that were integrated in 1997/98.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan 3185-CM)
4. PART II: TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial  Partial     Negligible   Not applicable
Macro policies                    O            O             O              E0
Sector policies                   O            0              l            E
Financial objectives              O            O             E              0
Institutional development         Ol           0             0              0
Physical objectives               0            O             E              E
Poverty reduction                 El           E             E              E
Gender issues                     E            0             O              E
Other social objectives           E            El            O              0
Environmental objectives          n            E             E              Z
Public sector management          O            E             0              0
Private sector development        O            0             E              E
B. Project sustainability            Likely           Unlikel          Uncertain
El               El                0
C. Bank performance                  Highly          Satisfactory       Deficient
satisfactory
Identification                         E                 0                 E
Preparation assistance                 E                 0                 E
Appraisal                              E                 0                 E
Supervision                            E                 0 I
D. Borrower performance         Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation                            E                 E                 0
Implementation                         0                 0                 El
Covenant compliance                    E                 0                 El
Operation (if applicable)              E                 E                 O
E. Assessment of outcome       Highly      Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory   Highly
satisfactory                             unsatisfactory
E             0             E              a



17
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/credit title                     Purpose          Year of
rpose       approval  S
Preceding operations
1. Second Western Province Rural Development Project Area Development  1884    Completed
(Ln-2406-CAM
2. National Agricultural Research Project       gricultural Research  1987    Completed
(Ln-2766-CM
3. Livestock Sector Development                Livestock Sector       1989    Completed
(Ln-3014-CM)                                 Development
Following operations
1. Food Security Project ( LN-3388-CM)        Food Security           1991     Ongoing
2. Agricultural Extension and Research Support (CR-  agricultural Extension    1998  Ongoing
3_137-CM)                                     Jand Research__________
TABLE3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle                 Date Planned         Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
I. Identification (Executive Project Summary)   May 1987              May 1988
2. Preparation (Pre-appraisal)                  May 1989              May 1989
3. Appraisal                                    September 1989        June 1989
4. Negotiations                                 February 1990         February 1990
5. Board Presentation                           March 1990            March 1990
6. Signing                                      July 1990             July 1990
7. Effectiveness                                October 1990          January 1991
8. Midterm review (if applicable)               February 1994         March-April 1995
9. Project Completion                           June1997              November 1998
10. Loan Closing                                March 1997            December 1998



18
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ thousands)
FY91  FY92 I FY93  FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99
Appraisal estimate
Annual             1.06 [ 2.74    4.01  [ 4.64 T 4.33      2.73     1.48       -   |
Cumulative         1.06 | 3.80    7.81   12.45   16.78    19.51    21.00  | 21.00 i 21.00
Actual
Cumulative          0      1.85    3.08    6.86    9.13    11.40    15.26    19.02   20.99
Actual as % of      0     49%    40%    55%       54%      58%      73%      91%     99%
Estimated date of final disbursement: June 30, 1999
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Activity/Objective                     Estimated            Actual
Program Input
Fielding of Extension Staff
- ZEW (Zonal Extension Workers)      946                1,463
- Supervision - all level (including national + provincial +  241            320
regional + sector levels)
Technical staff (provincial head of units and SMS  77                 295
2. Vehicles                                                                    119
3. Motorcycles                                                                1,350
Program Impact/Achievements
Direct contact by extension workers (#farm families)      170,000            190,000
Fortnightly training sessions                              4,500              2,562
Demonstration units per worker                              100                 91
Monthly technology review meetings/province                 12               6.7 (avg)
Human resource development (specific training sessions                  20 specific training
including seminar and workshops)                                          sessions and 20
refreshment courses



19
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
Activity/Objective                       Estimated                Actual
I Staffing Ratio
1. No. of ZEW (Zonal Extension Workers) (AVZ)                940                    1,463
2. No. of farmers/ZEW (farm families/ZEW)                    590                     550
3. No. of CG/ZEW                                              32                   8 (avg)
II Training schedule
1. No. of fortnightly training sessions                    2/month                 75% *
2. No. of monthly workshops                                 12/year                65% **
3. No. of training in communication                         1/year                  none
*      Rate of participation of ZEWs and SS 88%; 89% in 97
* *    Rate of participation of SMSs 60%; 94% in 97
TABLE 7: STUDIES
Study        Purpose as defined at        Status                  Impact of Study
appraisal/redefined
Impact        To assess awareness among    Done (since   Comfirmation of impact of the program helped to
Evaluation    farmers about the extension  January      establish a national policy on extension.
Study         serivce, adoption of technical    1995)   Agricultural extension must be combined with a
messages, and impact on                   number of complementatry factors to increase
farmers' revenues.                        farm productivity.
Mid Term      Review of project objectives  Done (since   Redefinition of project obejctives, components,
Review        and implementation progress.    March 1995) and scope.
Human         Identification of training needs   Done (since   Revamping of human resource development plan.
resource      among various stakholders, and  December    The study focussed on the in-service training, and
development   elaboration of human resource   1994)     did not address the broader issues of human
plan          development plan, including               resource managmenet in the respective Ministries
budget                                    involved.
Agricultural   To engage various stakeholders  Done (since  Input in the policy defnition process in the
sector prioirty  to define the priorities in the  December   respective Ministries. Nevertheless, the exercise
setting       agricultural sector.         1997)        has not been used to its full potential.
Environmenta  Assess the environmental     Done (since   Dissemination of messages on environementally
I impact     impact of the program;        July 1997)   sustainable technology.
assessment    Identify ways and means to
ensure that extension messages
contribute to environmentally
sustainalbe development.
Beneficiary    Take stock of the assessment of  Done (since   Confirmation of results of the earlier impact
Assessment    beneficiaries and staff on the    August  evaluation;
impact, the strengths and the  1997)      Indication on the further improvement of the
weaknesses of the extension               extension service, in particular with greater focus
program                                   on participatory methodologies for technology
generation, and more emphasis on the inclusion
of women farmers in contact groups.



20
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal estimate (US$M)      Actual/latest estimate(US$M)
Item          Local   Foreign       Total   Local costs  Foreign    Total
costs     costs                             costs
Extension               7.94      10.62      18.54      18.16       2.74      20.90
Training                3.02      1.27       4.35        3.16       0.02      3.18
Adaptive Research       2.46      3.86       6.28        2.73                 2.73
Seed Production         0.94      0.95       1.88        0.10                 0.10
TOTAL                  14.36      16.70      31.05      24.15       2.76      26.91
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal estimate (US$M)      Actual/latest estimate(US$M)
Source         Local   Foreign       Total   Local costs  Foreign     Total
costs     costs                            costs
IBRD/IDA                7.26     13.74      21.00       18.23      2.76      20.99
Government              7.09       -         7.09       5.92        -         5.92
Bilateral Co-financing   -        2.96       2.96         -         -         0.00
TOTAL                  14.35     16.70      31.05      24.15       2.76      26.91
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
No economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated in the SAR. Simple rates of return were
prepared comparing Government expenditure and the value of incremental production. The
different hypotheses showed rates of return in the range of 18 percent to 40 percent. Due to
the lack of a base-line study, it was not possible to calculate the ERR for this ICR. Given the
fact that the project costs were less than expected (resulting from a heavy reduction of
salaries in the public service and a 50 percent devaluation of the CFAF) and that both the BA
and the independent impact evaluation confirmed the assumptions made in the SAR on the
impact of adoption on production, it could be assumed that the ERR would be within the
range of the estimates of the SAR.



21
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
DCA    Type  Status   Original  Revised              Description of Covenant              Comments
Sct.                        Date        Date
3.01 (a)   10     CD                               Carry out the project with due
l________                      __________  diligence.
3.01 (b)   05     C         06/30/92         v_  Appoint project coordinator.
3.02      03      CP                                Compliance with procurement       Compliance improved
provisions.                       towards the end of the
project.
3.03      09      C                                 Submission of work program.
3.04      10      CD        12/31/90               Arrangements for training.         The compliance with
Combined use of Livestock and    this convenant was
Agriculture Staff for training    instrumental in the
extension staff.                  preparation of the
l_____                                                                      successor project.
3.05      10      C                                 Agreement between IRA and         Agreement between
MINAGRI.                          IRA and MINAGRI
signed in April 1996.
3.06      10      C         12/31/90               Agreement between MINAGRI    No longer relevant.
and Parastatals on extension.     PNVA has taken over
extension responsibility
from most parastatals.
4.01(a)   01      C                                 MINAGRI and IRA to maintain
I_______ ______                   separate accounts.
4.01(b)   01      CP        03/31/95                Accounts audited of previous      Frequent delays in the
(i)                                                 fiscal year.                      production of audit
__________ l________                                      reports.
4.01(b)   01      C                                 To furnish other information.
(iii)
4.01(c)   01      C                                 Follow Bank guidelines on SOEs.
4         03      CP                                Procurement and Contract          Borrower tends to
Services                          comply.
5         01      C                                 Special accounts (SA) for
_____  __ I__  I______  I_____    MINAGRI and  IRA.
Status:                                          Covenant Class:
C:      Complied with                            01:      Accounts/audit
CD:    Compliance after delay                    03:      Flow and utilization of Project funds
NC:    Not Complied with                         05:      Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
SOON:  Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time    09:  Monitoring, Review and Reporting
CP:     Complied with Partially                  10:    Implementation
NYD:   Not Yet Due



22
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
In general, the project cornplied with all applicable Operational Manual Statements. An
independent procurement audit, ordered by the Bank, was carried out at the time of the
preparation of this ICR. The preliminary audit report illustrated the project's weak capacity
with regard to procurement. The country team will discuss appropriate actions to remedy this
situation with the Borrower as soon as all the information on existing weaknesses and
strengths will be available.
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of Project Cycle                          Actual
Weeks                         US$ ($000)
Through Appraisal              97.8                            245.2
Negotiation-Board               8.8                             24.5
Supervision                 144.5                           470.6
Completion                  10.6                             18.2
TOTAL                      261.7                           758.5



23
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Rating
No   Days   Specialized   Implemen-          Devt.      Types of
Project phase   Month/Year    of        in     Staff Skills    tation      Objectives  problems
Staff  Field  Represented       Status
Identification    Sept. 1987   -
Preparation     Dec. 1987      -
Appraisal       June 1989       ?      ?
Supervision I    July 1991     1       12     AE             S             S-
Supervision II   January 1992   1             AE             S             S
Supervision III  April 1992    2       12     AE, EX         S                   S      -
Supervision IV   June 1993     3       12     AE, EX, EX    U              S            M, P, F
Supervision V    Dec. 1993     2       12     AE, EX         S             S
Supervision VI  June 1994      2       12     AE, EX         S             S            M, F
Supervision     March- April  3        30     AE, AE, EX    U              S            M, F, L
VII (MTR        1995
mission)
Supervision     Sept.-Oct. 95  3       18     AE, EX, AE    S              S
VIII
Supervision IX    May 1997     2       18     AE, EX         S             S
Supervision X    Nov. 1997    2        12     AE, TR         S             S
Supervision XI  Oct. 1998      1       14     EX             S             S            D, P, FP
Types of problems:                                Subject specialty:
D: Slow Disbursement                              AE: Agricultural Economist
F: Availability of counterpart funds              AS: Agricultural Services Specialist
FP: Financial problems                            TR: Training Specialist
L: Adherence to legal clauses                     EX: Extension Specialist
M: Project management                             FA: Financial Analyst
P; Progress with procurement
TA: Progress with technical assistance
TR: Training



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan 3185-CM)
5. APPENDIX A: MAPS



MAP SECTION



J _! | rn t5  a I   <     b     .          .     .    . . :.  '' l   2toe  Chad                       '!
N I G E R      /                 -                                                          '<    't-\
_ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ '~ _ov _~~i                                     ~                                    : o  3covnne rz
!' -'                  Z=K     CHADe   n s~c~  orl                             
?y J ,,vdC H A Dd,                                                      N
.BENINi                     'S                                                                                         r /
>          N I G E R I A                              
ri!  I                    /       I  CENTRAL AFRICAN        .
'>.__               -"""        I 'A.,REPUBLIC    A1
N______  CAEROONK \                                   IKLOMETERS 0  20 40 60 80 Io Ioo 140 1o 10                         /
<:vzn2E  GUATORIM  V-Ct.   S    IMILES D    20   40   60                                  a0 lOS                  ,E
GUIN/CofENE    j GABO       /OG                                                                                                     N  /       -  .. (. ,
OAARI ON  %CQNGO)                                                                                               '
CAMEROON                                                                     I' ' ' )
NATIONAL EXTENSION AND                                                                          /    ,
TRAINING PROJECT (NETP)                                                                      '' g '. -t
I    Notional Copital                                                         P       '-S-0:3    .r- -       - -
G    Province Capitals                                                         1         '0   -"'
o    Division Capitals                                                        /_
Rivers
Division Boundarins                                    ' o                                   S              C H A  D
.-      Provi-ce Boundaries                                               ! l- *- -i-
- - -     Isto-n-tionIl Boundaries                                        /)        -                        N-
o-.    oaboonits Pnr Sqisrr Kilotebr - by Division
/ - ,  Pr-vines Finonced by NETP                                  12           1i E             1      oI              '1
Provi-ces Coordinted by NEWP                         1       . -.-
/                                                                                     a ' . o -'..  ' _/
)  -  T2rElre s J_.   . .'   ., .     ,
N I G E R I A                                                                                                   J>               <
-   j:                     0                    e                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A F R I C A N 
<    <    t   / R    S.&404                              , -e           '          i  '. iFy ', ',- ,<A/N"'flA'-/  /
' / 7 X rR .S _ j .'-7                                                                         tA
NIGERIAC~            ~ /\   )                        2          '                   4/i-                          =$X/,  / --'1
EaUAT/RIAL                                 _f -_:e-rv't                                                       '.         ,/             CENTRAL
(INSIILAR GUINEAI          oKE                                                       .       , A*noa
0~~~~~ ~~~ .~ _                              -      ~       ~       - $        , . rs.   i   o        ,           ,       .  . AFRICA
--<O-_ 1/7g¢Dtq                                                            - ,- ,\
EQUATORIAL GUINEA  
rn                        ~~~~~~~~(CON.lNENIAL GUINEAI  I                                                           ONGO<                                    C
//                            -r            '                         ,2                                  2                               V<,.
,f/vh/,  >7  /    '    fluKe                                                            CONGO
-  '~~~~~    /                                             t7~~~~~~~"~~~         N~~~



